<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 81: Taboo Tradeoffs, Pt 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 81: Taboo Tradeoffs, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> this is a spinoff fanfiction
      from Less Wrong's <em class="calibre8">Harry Potter and the Methods of
      Rationality</em> (s/5782108/1). The story spins off midway chapter
      81, although the following chapters will still use plot twists from
      the original, before branching off in a completely different
      direction after ten chapters or so. (Needless to say, there will be
      spoilers, so you should really have read the original until at
      least chapter 96 – although of course, if you got here, I can't
      imagine why you wouldn't already have done that anyway.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For completeness, the first part of this chapter is copied from
      the corresponding chapter in HPMoR. If you don't want to reread it
      and just skip straight to the new parts, search for "But when" in
      the text. If you <em class="calibre8">do</em> want to reread it, and want more
      context of this chapter, reread the start of this story arc at
      (s/5782108/78), s/5782108/79 and s/5782108/80 . Further author
      warnings (to avoid common erroneous expectations) are given at the
      bottom of the page.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      
      <p class="calibre6">In rising half-circles of dark stone, a great sea of upraised
      hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Lords and Ladies of the Wizengamot, in plum-colored robes
      marked with a silver 'W', stared down in stern rebuke at a young
      girl trembling in chains. If they had, in any particular ethical
      system, damned themselves, they clearly thought quite highly of
      themselves for having done so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's breath was trembling in his chest. His dark side had
      come up with a plan – and then rotated itself back out again
      because speaking too icily would not be to Hermione's advantage; a
      fact which the only-half-cold Harry had somehow not realized...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The vote carries, in favor," intoned the secretary, when all
      the tallying was done, and the upraised hands fell back down. "The
      Wizengamot recognizes the blood debt owed by Hermione Granger to
      House Malfoy for the attempted murder of its scion and ending of
      its line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy was smiling in grim satisfaction. "And now," said
      the white-maned wizard, "I say that her debt shall be paid –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry clenched his fists beneath the bench and shouted, "By the
      debt owed from House Malfoy to House Potter!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Silence!" snapped the woman in too much pink makeup sitting
      next to Minister Fudge. "You've disrupted these proceedings quite
      enough already! Aurors, escort him out!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," said Augusta Longbottom from the top tier of seats.
      "What debt is this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius's hands whitened on his cane. "House Malfoy owes no debt
      to you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't the world's most solid hope, it was based on one
      newspaper article from a woman who'd been False-Memory-Charmed, but
      Rita Skeeter had seemed to find it plausible, that Mr. Weasley had
      allegedly owed James Potter a debt because...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm surprised you've forgotten," Harry said evenly. "Surely it
      was a cruel and painful period of your life, laboring under the
      Imperius curse of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, until you were freed of
      it by the efforts of House Potter. By my mother, Lily Potter, who
      died for it, and by my father, James Potter, who died for it, and
      by me, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence within the Most Ancient Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, what an excellent point, Mr. Potter," said the old witch
      who'd been identified as Madam Bones. "I, too, am quite surprised
      that Lord Malfoy would forget such a significant event. It must
      have been such a happy day for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Augusta Longbottom. "He must have been so
      grateful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Bones nodded. "House Malfoy could not possibly deny that
      debt – unless, perhaps, Lord Malfoy is to tell us that he has
      misremembered something? I should take quite a professional
      interest in that. We are always trying to improve our picture of
      those dark days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy's hands gripped the silver snake-handle of his
      cane like he was about to strike with it, unleash whatever power it
      kept –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the Lord Malfoy seemed to relax, and a chill smile came
      over his face. "Of course," he said easily. "I do confess I had not
      understood, but the child is quite correct. However, I do not quite
      think the two debts cancel – House Potter was only trying to save
      itself, after all –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not so," Dumbledore said from above.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– and therefore," intoned Lucius Malfoy, "I demand monetary
      compensation as well, for the redemption of the blood debt owed my
      son. That, too, is the law."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a strange inward flinch. That had also been in the
      newspaper article, Mr. Weasley had demanded an additional ten
      thousand Galleons –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much?" said the Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was still wearing the cold smile. "One hundred thousand
      Galleons. If you have not that much in your vault, I suppose I must
      accept a promissory note for the remainder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A roar of protest went up from Dumbledore's side of the room,
      even some of the plum-colored robes in the middle looked
      shocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shall we put it to the vote of the Wizengamot?" said Lucius
      Malfoy. "I think few of us would like to see the little murderess
      go free. By a show of hands, that additional compensation of one
      hundred thousand Galleons would be required to cancel the
      debt!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The clerk began tallying, but that vote was also clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood there, breathing deeply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You'd better not even have to think about this,</em> Harry's
      inner Gryffindor said threateningly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It's a major purchase,</em> observed Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre8">We ought
      to spend a lot of time thinking about it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It shouldn't have been hard. It <em class="calibre8">shouldn't</em> have. Two
      million pounds was only money, and money was only worth what it
      could buy...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was strange how much psychological attachment you could have
      to 'only money', or how painful it could be to imagine losing a
      bank vault full of gold that you hadn't even imagined existed just
      one year earlier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Kimball Kinnison wouldn't hesitate,</em> said Gryffindor.
      <em class="calibre8">Seriously. Like, snap decision. What sort of hero are you? I
      already hate you just for having to think about it for longer than
      50 milliseconds.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This is real life,</em> said Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre8">Losing all your
      money is a lot more painful for real people in real life than in
      heroic books.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em> demanded Gryffindor. <em class="calibre8">Whose side are you
      on?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I wasn't advocating for a particular answer,</em> said
      Ravenclaw, <em class="calibre8">I was just saying it because it was true.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Could a hundred thousand Galleons be used to save more than
      one life if spent some other way?</em> said Slytherin. <em class="calibre8">We have
      research to do, battles to fight, the difference between being
      40,000 Galleons rich and being 60,000 Galleons in debt is not
      trivial –</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So we'll just use one of our ways to make money fast and
      earn it all back,</em> said Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It's not certain those will work,</em> said Slytherin,
      <em class="calibre8">and a lot of them require starting cash –</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Personally,</em> said Gryffindor, <em class="calibre8">I vote that we save
      Hermione and then gang up and kill our inner Slytherin.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The clerk's voice said that the tally had been recorded and the
      vote had passed...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's lips opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I accept your offer," said Harry's lips, without any
      hesitation, without any decision having been made; just as if the
      internal debate had been pretense and illusion, the true controller
      of the voice having been no part of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy's mask of calm shattered, his eyes widened, he
      stared at Harry in sheer blank astonishment. His mouth had opened
      slightly, though he wasn't speaking, and if he was making any
      peculiar noises it couldn't be heard over the roar of simultaneous
      gasps from the Wizengamot –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A tap of stone silenced the crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said the voice of Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's head jerked around to stare at the ancient wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's lined face was pale, the silver beard was visibly
      trembling, he looked like he was in the final throes of a terminal
      illness. "I'm – sorry, Harry – but this choice is not yours – for I
      am still the guardian of your vault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What?</em>" said Harry, too shocked to compose his
      reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot let you go into debt to Lucius Malfoy, Harry! I
      cannot! You do not know – you do not realize –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">DIE.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't even know which part of himself had spoken, it
      might have been a unanimous vote, the pure rage and fury pouring
      through him. For an instant he thought that the sheer force of the
      anger might take magical wing and fly out to strike the Headmaster,
      send him tumbling back dead from the podium –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But when that mental voice had spoken, the old wizard was still
      standing there, gazing at Harry, long dark wand in his right hand,
      short black rod in his left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry felt his blood cool rapidly to freezing point. He
      stared at Dumbledore in unmitigated hatred, then glanced around and
      saw all the plum-colored robes, the people who would send a young
      girl to be mentally destroyed by Dementors, or who at least were
      too cowardly to speak up in her defense. All his restraint fell
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was also the <em class="calibre8">other</em> solution his dark side had
      devised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I will cancel the Patronus Charms, and prevent any more
      Patronuses from being cast. And then <em class="calibre8">my</em> Dementor is going
      to Kiss everyone here who voted to send a twelve-your-old girl to
      Azkaban." He was still looking at Dumbledore, but he spoke to the
      room at large.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some members of the Wizengamot gasped in surprise, or in
      horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then a greater number started laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And a terrified voice cried out from below. "No! Harry,
      don't!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The coldness shattered as his gaze was torn away from Dumbledore
      and down to Hermione. She was sitting upright in her chair, still
      bound by the chains, her school robes around her neck soaked
      through with tears. And she was looking at him in absolute
      horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't kill them! You're better than that, Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, they voted to <em class="calibre8">send you to Azkaban</em>. They
      <em class="calibre8">deliberately chose</em> to send a <em class="calibre8">child</em> to be
      <em class="calibre8">tortured to death</em>." His voice broke. "I cannot let
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An uneasy silence had fallen over the hall, as the people in
      their plum-colored robes listened to the exchange. There were
      sounds of disbelief here and there, but no one interrupted, as the
      Chief Warlock held up a hand in restraint. Hermione took a few
      breaths before she found the strength to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, you can, Harry. Because you promised me that you wouldn't
      help me if I told you not to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His mind stumbled, unable to form a coherent response, to come
      up with a new plan. Tears were streaming down Harry's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're trying to send you to <em class="calibre8">Azkaban</em>, Hermione!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know." She screwed up her eyes, swallowed, and took another
      deep breath. "But maybe I deserve that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you don't! Hermione, don't you believe that you deserve
      this, any of this! You didn't do it! Someone has
      False-Memory-Charmed you, or maybe cast some dark spell on you, I
      don't know. But I <em class="calibre8">do</em> know <em class="calibre8">you</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes widened, and for a moment she looked... not
      happy, but hopeful. But then her face set in a determined look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if that is so, you should not harm people for my sake. You
      shouldn't harm people at all! There are parents here, Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're <em class="calibre8">evil</em>, Hermione! Would you really go to Azkaban
      to save them? Even knowing that you're completely innocent?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked away from him, to the ground, as though this answer
      was taking all her strength to give. But she nodded, and almost
      whispered: "Yes. I would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't know what to say anymore, or what to do. His brain
      had run into a dead end. He had no solutions, and he couldn't go
      dark anymore, not now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Dumbledore who broke the deadly silence. The Chief
      Warlock raised himself up to his full height and spoke in sad, but
      firm tones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now you have all seen what you have done today.
      <em class="calibre8">This</em> is the child that you have condemned to be entombed
      in Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A worthy theater," Lucius Malfoy drawled from the other side of
      most ancient hall. "Undoubtedly composed to make the girl look
      better. But I for one am not convinced by some mad threat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, obviously the boy was bluffing." Dumbledore waved a hand
      irritably so as to dismiss any possibility of the alternative as
      nonsensical. "He is a first-year child, who is merely trying to
      save a friend's life by using the mysterious reputation his past
      has given him. He is too young to understand the... delicacies of
      politics. Naturally, he was not truly able to carry out his
      threat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard paused briefly, and gestured at where Hermione
      was sitting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But <em class="calibre8">she</em> did not know that. You have all heard her. She
      would willingly go to Azkaban to save you, the people who have
      sentenced her there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was just lying to impress us." The toad-like pink-makeup
      woman, whose name Harry could no longer remember, was learning
      forward with a sickening smile. "I agree with Lord Malfoy. It was
      an admirable show."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's still under the effect of Veritaserum, Madam Umbridge,"
      Madam Bones replied hoarsely. "She was given three drops, it takes
      an hour to fully wear off. She might not be compelled to say more
      than she wants to anymore, but she cannot yet lie."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now many people looked sick. Now, when the vote had been and
      passed, they were finally starting to think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The blood debt stands," Lucius Malfoy said, his voice no longer
      sounding amused. "Emotional shows aside, she is still a murderess,
      and we have already voted on the matter. So let her debt be paid.
      Take her to Azkaban, where she will never threaten anyone
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Dumbledore spoke gravely. He was looking Hermione
      in the eyes as he tapped the rod. "I now, in accordance with the
      last decision of the survivors of the eighty-eighth Wizengamot,
      adjourn this session." Then, he bowed his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the Aurors moved forward and pressed a short rod of dark
      metal to the metal chair, muttering an inaudible word of dismissal.
      The chains slithered back as smoothly as they had come forth, but
      Hermione didn't move. She was trembling. The Auror laid a hand on
      her shoulder and pulled her onto her feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't scream, didn't beg, she didn't have to be
      dragged out. She just gave Harry one last, tearful look, and then
      turned and allowed herself to be led away by the Aurors. Harry
      wanted to say something, wanted to run after her, apologize, hug
      her, do <em class="calibre8">something</em>, but it was all too late, he didn't know
      what he could do anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Around the room, the Lords and Ladies of the Wizengamot were
      rising. Some were looking slightly uncomfortable, others were
      hurrying out to lunch or happily talking to each other as though
      nothing out of the ordinary had happened. To Harry's right,
      Professor McGonagall was weeping. Dumbledore descended to the
      bottom of the dark stone stairs, and stepped up toward the
      spectator arc. His blue eyes were locked on Harry, as hard as
      sapphires. Only when he reached Professor McGonagall did his
      expression soften.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come, Minerva, let us go home. Today was a very sad day
      indeed." He took her arm gently in his. "And Mr. Potter, hold my
      sleeve. We are not done yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry obeyed, Dumbledore grabbed Fawkes by the tail, and then
      the fire engulfed them.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note to avoid erroneous expectations:</strong>
      Several people have expressed some confusion at the title of this
      spinoff fanfiction. To clarify:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Following The Phoenix</em> simply refers to doing the
      brave/right/foolish thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It does <em class="calibre8">not</em> refer to any actual phoenix. I do not
      confirm or deny that phoenixes play a role in this work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is also important to note that this spinoff was written and
      posted <em class="calibre8">before the final arc</em> of HPMoR (between the
      publication of chapters 98 and 103, to be exact). Consequently, not
      only does it continue in a different way, but the revelations in
      later chapters also do not apply. This means, among other
      things:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* the events in Godric Hollow did not happen that way</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* the secret identities and motivations of various characters
      are not all the same</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* horcruxes don't work that way</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* the philosopher's stone doesn't work that way</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And I will go right out and reveal now that Harry's Pet Rock
      died simply because he was such an irresponsible guardian.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
