<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 93: Little Children Grow Up, Pt2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 93: Little Children Grow Up, Pt2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Sunday afternoon, not that the day mattered much here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After almost a week in Azkaban, Hermione's life had fallen into
      a certain routine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She slept during the night, guarded by the Aurors' Patronuses,
      as they had still not stopped protecting her. She never again woke
      up under the Dementors' influence, although one time the Patronus
      had left briefly in the afternoon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she woke up in the morning, she would find the night meal
      in her cell. Typically bread, which would keep for a bit, so she
      saved that for lunch. She would then do some exercises in the
      confined area of her cell to wake up properly, and practice spells
      until the bracelet told her someone was coming. Then she would put
      everything away and climb under her blanket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was usually Auror Li who brought her breakfast. He was kind,
      and sometimes he sat with her for a few minutes, talking about his
      children. Understanding how boring life in Azkaban must be, he had
      also slipped her a book on Thursday morning. <em class="calibre8">Tales of Beedle
      the Bard</em>. It was a children's fairy tale book, but she didn't
      know the stories yet, and she'd soon read it through twice. It was
      a pleasant relief; her anonymous benefactor had given her a lot of
      books, but had apparently not thought to put any light
      entertainment in her pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was afraid to take her wand out again until Li had gone back
      to the Aurors' Headquarters (since the door to her cell block was
      too close to the stairs to notice in time when someone came from
      downstairs), so she would spend the time until he had returned
      doing the exercises from the Occlumency book that had been in her
      pouch. Not that she was getting very far with that. All this
      <em class="calibre8">mentally pretending to be someone different</em> was really,
      really hard. All she felt she'd really learned after several such
      practice sessions was that this wasn't really the sort of thing
      twelve-year-old children were supposed to be able to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then she would continue practicing spells until it was time for
      lunch, and after that spend about two hours working on partial
      transfiguration. This was <em class="calibre8">really hard</em>, but she was
      starting to make some progress; yesterday she had successfully
      transfigured a square millimeter of wall into glass. Once magical
      exhaustion started to set in, she would move on to the non-magical
      books, either reading or doing exercises.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the evening, another Auror would bring her a warm meal –
      healthy and nutritious like all meals here, even though it was
      utterly bland because no one would bother to add sugar or salt to
      food for prisoners who would hardly even taste it. She had wondered
      whether the good food was because of some ancient pre-Dementor
      regulation about treating the inmates well, or just to keep the
      prisoners healthy and suffering for as long as possible. She would
      then do some more Occlumency, followed by a bit more magical
      practice, finish off with some reading, and go to sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right now, she was doing exercises from the mathematical
      analysis book. And she was, surprisingly, bored.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was amazing, she thought, how you could willingly spend hours
      and hours doing something, but not enjoy it when you had nothing
      else to do. The analysis book was <em class="calibre8">hard</em>. The first chapter
      started by defining what a natural number was, and then moved on to
      defining limits, and finally real numbers. She wasn't even halfway
      through the exercises, and they were interesting and challenging.
      If she'd been at Hogwarts, she would gladly have spent
      <em class="calibre8">weeks</em> in the library working through this book. She might
      even have considered going to a Muggle university for some time
      after her Hogwarts education, just to learn more about mathematics
      and physics, because it was <em class="calibre8">so intriguing</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione grumpily checked her proof attempt for errors again,
      and spotted a subscript she had mislaid. Perhaps she could complete
      it with this change?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually she sighed, and closed the book. It was going
      nowhere. She just didn't <em class="calibre8">feel</em> like working, not on
      mathematics, nor on history or physics or Occlumency either. She
      wanted to go outside, take a stroll, maybe even (she shuddered at
      the thought) fly on a broomstick. As long as she could get out of
      this blasted cell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most of all, she wanted to talk to someone. Those two minutes
      with Li in the morning just weren't enough, and there was no one
      else to talk to. She was feeling lonely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today was Easter. Her parents would have been told, by now, that
      their daughter wouldn't come home for the holidays because she was
      in jail. Or would Professor McGonagall simply have lied, and
      claimed that she was dead? It might be kinder to them than knowing
      their daughter to be in Azkaban, but they were Muggles and so
      didn't know what the wizard prison was like.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Would they be allowed to visit her?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She desperately wanted to see them, even if it meant them seeing
      her sunk so deeply. She wanted to talk to them, at least over the
      phone. But she had no way to do that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, actually...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at the blazing humanoid, which stood next to the
      badger and lit up the room. Patronuses could be used to send
      messages, couldn't they? She and Harry had talked about it, before
      finding out that neither of them could do the charm, and theorized
      that the trick was probably just done by desiring someone else to
      know your happy thought. And she <em class="calibre8">had</em> a corporeal Patronus
      now, she could try it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But what could she tell them?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And if they didn't know what happened yet, wouldn't this cause
      Professor McGonagall to find out, and then get in trouble for not
      reporting the huge breach of the law that someone had given her a
      wand? (Because she was quite sure that Professor McGonagall
      wouldn't report her, no matter what.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was the risk too great to be worth it? She really <em class="calibre8">did</em>
      want to talk to her parents... But what if they weren't alone?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A distant yell broke her out of her thinking. Very occasionally,
      she would hear them, the prisoners of the next block. They'd have
      to be yelling very loudly to be audible all the way over here. A
      nightmare, probably. She swallowed back the lump in her throat.
      Every once in a while, there was this reminder that she really had
      nothing to complain about. When all around you, people are cold and
      miserable, having nightmares in their sleep and reliving their
      worst memories in their minds while awake, a little loneliness just
      didn't compare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">... maybe there was something she could do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't time for the evening meal yet, not by far. She should
      be safe for hours. It would be risky, but if the other prisoners
      didn't see her, they couldn't betray her. At most they could say
      that <em class="calibre8">someone</em> had been casting a Patronus, but why would
      anyone suspect the 12-year-old fellow prisoner in the next cell?
      And supposedly the Dementors also couldn't see you, if...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cloak," she whispered to her pouch, and the silvery cloak
      jumped into her hand. She threw the cloak over her back, and saw
      herself disappear, as the soft song lightly touched her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Alohomora</em>." The grate to her cell clicked open. She
      sneaked outside, leaving the grate open because she might have to
      run back on a moment's notice if an Auror decided to come down for
      whatever reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Alohomora</em>." The metal door followed, as she swayed
      just a little from the magical effort of casting the spell twice in
      short succession.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there she was, in the corridor filled with flickering gas
      lamps, where Li had walked her to her cell. She tiptoed towards the
      next cell block. Being closer, she could hear the sound of sobbing,
      but it stopped as she (and the Patronus) came closer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Stay!"</em> someone inside yelled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stood still for a minute, replenishing her magical energy,
      then whispered <em class="calibre8">"Alohomora."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carefully, she opened the door. The smell assaulted her first.
      Urine, vomit... Hadn't the Auror cleaned this up when he got here a
      few hours ago, or was it fresh? She always tried to time her
      bathroom visits to avoid stinking up the cell, but these prisoners
      probably didn't have as much control over themselves...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the first cell she saw, a man with horrible sunken eyes
      stared out of the bars. He looked so tired, so pained, that she
      almost lost control over the Patronus. But she pushed down on that
      emotion, and forced herself to look away and not think about what
      she was seeing too much. <em class="calibre8">You're going to help them,</em> she
      told herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was movement in the two cells left of that one, she saw.
      But the two cells to the right, closest to her own cell block, were
      still empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Can you go into the fourth cell without showing yourself to
      them?</em> she thought to the humanoid. If she left the Patronus
      outside the door, the Aurors might see its shine from the stairway
      before she felt them coming, but inside the cell block it would be
      safe (as long as the prisoners wouldn't be so stupid as to tell
      their guards about it). The Patronus just nodded, and shifted
      <em class="calibre8">sideways</em> somehow, and then it stood in the cell next to
      the man with the haunted eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Stay,</em> she mentally instructed, and then she closed the
      door, whispered <em class="calibre8">Colloportus</em> and went back to her cell like
      a good little prisoner.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Michael Verres-Evans was reading the newspaper with a
      frown as Harry entered the apartment on Monday morning. All post
      arriving in their Oxford house was automatically delivered here to
      Hogwarts, so it was a Muggle newspaper, but the news seemed to be
      on very similar lines to the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em>. Harry winced
      as he saw the headlines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father looked up when he saw Harry come in. "It appears," he
      said in a low voice, "that zombies have attacked the town of
      Easingwold last Saturday. Some people have videotaped it. There are
      also pictures of zombies walking the highways. I would normally
      disregard this sort of thing as sensationalist nonsense or an
      elaborate hoax, but..." he helplessly waved an arm, indicating his
      surroundings, "I realize that perhaps I should be more open to the
      supernatural. Is this something your people know more about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sank down in the deep, soft sofa opposite his father.
      Mother, he saw, was peeking out from the bedroom door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess this is where I tell you about You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't know who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord..." Harry took a deep breath. "Voldemort," he whispered.
      It sent shivers down his spine, saying the name himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Voldemort?" Professor Verres repeated at a normal
      tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't say the name!" Harry exclaimed. "Please. It's bad enough
      that Dumbledore and McGonagall keep using it. It just feels like...
      I can't even explain. We call him He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named or
      You-Know-Who usually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Muggle man raised his eyebrows. "That seems a bit
      extreme."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was him, wasn't it?" Petunia Evans-Verres had come in and
      sat down on the sofa next to her son. "He's the one who killed
      Lily. And James."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is," Harry nodded. "He was apparently this kind of dark
      wizard who tried to take over the country by terror. People fought
      him, of course, but it's a lot easier to break things down than to
      protect them. Thousands of people died, not just magical folk, but
      of course Muggles thought that it was just accidents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His father nodded. "That's roughly what Petunia told me after
      you went to school. And then he killed Lily and James, and he tried
      to kill you but some accident happened and he died, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the story, yes. Except that, one, he's not actually
      dead. Two, there was this prophecy about him and me, apparently
      we're destined enemies and one of us is going to have to kill the
      other. And three, it turns out he's actually an evil genius, and I
      have <em class="calibre8">no idea</em> how I'm going to fight him, or even what he's
      really trying to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cup of tea mother had been holding fell to the floor and
      broke in pieces with a clatter. Father stared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think your imagination is getting the better of you,
      son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, dad." He took out his wand, pointed it at the carpet, and
      muttered "<em class="calibre8">scourgify, everto</em>". The tea stain and the broken
      pieces disappeared. "I am deadly serious. I didn't really believe
      it either, at first, but I was wrong. He really did survive, and
      I'm going to have to fight him someday. Sooner rather than later,
      probably, because people are dying. We're fairly sure he's behind
      the zombie attack. And he was definitely the one who framed who
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">We?</em>" Professor Verres repeated. "Who's 'we'? Some
      friends of yours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Headmaster of the school, who's also the de facto leader of
      the light side of the war. Two other professors, and Moody, that's
      an Au- a policeman, although he's retired."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor stood up, looking very angry indeed. "What the
      hell is going on in this school? Are your teachers actually telling
      an <em class="calibre8">eleven-year old child</em> to fight a terrorist? Are they
      mad? I'm taking you home right this second."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Petunia shot her son a questioning look, which he answered with
      a slight shake of the head. Her voice was thin when she spoke.
      "They won't let us, Michael."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They have no legal right to stop us –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Right?</em> You're <em class="calibre8">Muggles</em>," Harry bit. "You have
      as much standing in the magical British legal system as, I don't
      know, gorillas. It's not acceptable to torture or kill you, but you
      don't count as people either. No wizard is going to bother
      listening to any of your arguments." He shrugged. "And while I
      don't agree with that in most cases, I think this time it's for the
      best."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"What?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad, please, forget about me being only eleven for once. This
      dark wizard terrorist is real. He's killed off half a village full
      of Muggles just two days ago. How hard do you think it would be to
      do the same in Oxford? <em class="calibre8">He knows where we live!</em> I'm not
      sure how safe it is here in the school, but I'm not going home, and
      I don't think you should either!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor was breathing heavily. "All right. We can talk
      about this. Are you sure he's trying to hurt you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure of anything," Harry admitted. "Least of all what
      he's trying to do. But <em class="calibre8">he</em> knows <em class="calibre8">me</em>. And he
      <em class="calibre8">absolutely</em>, <em class="calibre8">definitely</em>, takes an interest in me.
      Besides, he is <em class="calibre8">mass-murdering</em> people, dad!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is not your responsibility! You're a child, Harry!" He
      paced the room, agitated, something he very rarely did. "Prophecy
      or not, you are too young to be involved in a war." He paused, and
      visibly forced himself to restore his calm. "Don't you dare do
      anything to put yourself into harm's way. I will be talking with
      your teachers about what they're putting into children's
      heads."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not really a child anymore, dad." The boy sighed, and stood
      up from the sofa. "But I guess I'll always be one to you no matter
      what happens. And maybe that's okay." He went to the door. "I must
      go now, I'm meeting someone at eleven. But I'm sure Professor
      McGonagall won't mind talking to you. I'll be back for lunch."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The meeting with Lesath Lestrange wasn't very successful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath had worked his way through the books on Harry's reading
      list, spending every waking hour on them. Today he'd asked his
      "master" for explanations of some of the harder concepts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he still couldn't cast the True Patronus Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He tried, over and over. His wandwork was perfect. And yet he
      couldn't produce a Patronus. Harry thought he could sense it, the
      point where the boy failed. The little hesitation in his voice.
      Lesath was too afraid. Try as he might, he could never believe to
      his core that he had it in him to turn on death, Dementors and
      other evils, and win.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the boy finally lowered his wand, there were tears in his
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am sorry, my Lord. I have failed you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You haven't," Harry reassured him, even though he had to make
      an effort not to show his disappointment. "It was a gamble from the
      start. Only one wizard in ten can learn to cast the normal Patronus
      Charm, and I think this one is a lot harder and doesn't have the
      mist-form. In time, you might still learn it. It requires a pretty
      large change in your mind, to take to this spell. That costs
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy nodded. But it was clear he didn't believe it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," the Boy-Who-Lived added. "I don't think you need to
      be able to cast the spell to pass it on. If something should happen
      to me, you will be able to make sure that this spell is not
      forgotten."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fifth-year boy's eyes widened in shock. "But surely nothing
      could hurt <em class="calibre8">you</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I wish,</em> Harry thought, but instead he just said: "I
      lead a dangerous life, Lestrange."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence, for a while.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I should die," the Boy-Who-Lived spoke at last, "Then find
      other people to teach the spell to. Only those who cannot cast the
      normal Patronus Charm, even though they have tried, and their
      gestures are perfect. People who <em class="calibre8">don't</em> seem dark or
      unhappy. Definitely not those who believe that blood purity makes
      you a superior person, or who have similar ridiculous biases
      against other people. They must not be willing to sacrifice other
      people for some greater good. And ideally, choose people who can
      shield their mind with Occlumency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath shifted on his feet. "Those are a lot of requirements, my
      Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry agreed. "But you will have time. I hope this will
      not be necessary, but if something does go wrong, it will be your
      task to make sure that the knowledge of this spell does not die
      with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, my Lord."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I finished my review," father said when Harry came into the
      apartment for lunch. "I've just given it to your
      Deputy-Headmistress to post, when she came to see how we were
      doing. We have an appointment with her later this afternoon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Anything you want to do before?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The professor beamed brightly. "I would definitely like to see
      that library of yours."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hundreds of thousands of books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bookcases reaching up to the distant ceiling, meters high, with
      ladders to reach the higher shelves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence, except that sometimes the books seemed to rustle, even
      though there was no wind. There was a lone student sitting at a
      desk somewhere in a distant corner, but he wasn't making any
      sounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The air, saturated with the smell of old books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Son," Professor Verres-Evans said with a hint of awe in his
      voice. "I think I'm going to cry."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was almost two hours later when Petunia – who had been
      quietly bored until Harry found her a book of fairy tales, which
      might be all about magic but that was only normal, for fairy tales
      – pointed out that she could really use a cup of tea before their
      appointment with Professor McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they walked back to the apartment and passed a corridor,
      Harry thought he heard a sharp intake of breath. It cut off
      immediately, and when Harry looked around, he just saw a hint of a
      black robes disappearing in the shadows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only after he had delivered his parents to McGonagall's
      office half an hour later, and started trudging back to his common
      room, that a figure appeared before him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come with me," Severus Snape said softly.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The two of them were sitting in the office of the Deputy
      Headmistress of Hogwarts. The middle-aged dark-haired woman in
      front of them looked well-organized, firm, reliable, but none of
      that would ever stop Petunia from remembering that she could kill
      the two of them in a second if she so wished. She might not have
      much reason to do that, of course, but the woman was also quite
      capable of removing their memories of everything magic-related in
      their lives, something which Lily had said happened quite
      regularly. And as that not only included the existence of her
      sister, but also their son, it would be just as bad as killing
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael took up the conversation. He always did the talking for
      the both of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My son seems to be under the impression that he is destined to
      fight this evil genius, who killed his birth-parents, faked his own
      death, framed a fellow student, and is now setting zombies onto
      normal people." He spoke calmly, but there was an edge to his
      voice. You'd have to know him well to understand that he was
      angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman raised her eyebrows. "Did Harry say that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Did his imagination run away with him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that is pretty much accurate," the older woman said. "But I
      shall have to ask him about the 'faking death' part. As far as I
      know, Lord Voldemort survived the death of his body merely because
      he is immortal, not because he planned on it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael opened and shut his mouth a few times, seeming lost for
      words, but then apparently decided not to pursue this track of
      conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My son is <em class="calibre8">also</em> under the impression," and his tone
      turned more sharp, "that this is somehow <em class="calibre8">his problem</em>. That
      he will have to fight this dark wizard, and I quote, sooner rather
      than later. That he has to <em class="calibre8">worry</em> about how he's going to
      do that. This it is <em class="calibre8">his</em> responsibility to get his friend
      out of jail. And yesterday, he seemed remarkably depressed, like he
      was thinking that this zombie attack was somehow <em class="calibre8">his
      fault</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sad look crossed the witch's face. "I suppose that was to be
      expected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael's eye spasmed a little, and Petunia carefully laid a
      hand on his leg. She had explained to him, earlier this morning,
      what the magical response to Muggles getting uppity was. That he
      <em class="calibre8">couldn't</em> throw up too much of a storm, demand his rights,
      threaten with legal action or notify the government. He hadn't
      liked it much, but she had got through to him, and she hoped he
      would remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why," he bit, when he had control over his voice again, "have
      you even been <em class="calibre8">telling</em> him any of these things? Does the
      concept of a child not mean anything to you? He is <em class="calibre8">eleven years
      old</em>. He should be <em class="calibre8">playing</em> and <em class="calibre8">reading science
      fiction books</em>. Not thinking about how he's going to kill some
      dark terrorist!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We never planned to tell him," the woman said. "Not until he
      was fifteen <em class="calibre8">at least</em>. But he guessed at the truth early
      on, and I... didn't quite manage to hide my shock, which led him to
      figure out that something was going on. From there on, it has been
      a series of uncanny derivations, nagging and even blackmail from
      his side. We always knew that his childhood could not be long, but
      I assure you we <em class="calibre8">did</em> try to shield him from too much
      knowledge, danger and politics for as long as we could.
      Unfortunately, he would have none of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Petunia exchanged a look with her husband. He looked as resigned
      as she felt. That <em class="calibre8">did</em> sound like Harry indeed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We only invited him into our council last week, after Miss
      Granger was arrested," the Scottish witch continued. "He demanded
      to be involved, as the fate of his two best friends was at stake;
      and even if he hadn't, it would have been foolish not to consult
      him, as he knows more about both children than any of us. As it
      was, he made several valuable contributions, and almost managed to
      save Miss Granger from Azkaban." Her face took on a sad look.
      "Unfortunately the price was still too high."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five million pounds," Petunia whispered. "It would have been
      higher without Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman shook her head. "The only reason we could pay for her
      freedom at all is because of Harry. He found a... legal trick, to
      gain some leverage over Lord Malfoy. Anyway, after that, he
      demanded full information, and with his friends already being
      targeted for his sake, we could not withhold the words of the
      prophecy from him any longer. Within an hour, he solved a problem
      we've had for years, and then... Well, in hindsight we should have
      consulted him much earlier. Without his input, we would still not
      know that Voldemort was hiding right under our noses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em> Beside her, Michael blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Professor McGonagall said. "I see he hasn't <em class="calibre8">quite</em>
      told you the finer points of the situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They looked at each other again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He gave us the two-minute version," Michael spoke. "I don't
      suppose you would care to fill us in on the rest?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Professor McGonagall sighed. "With the current
      situation it's not like secrecy is still an option anyway." She
      rung a small golden bell, and with a *pop* a creature appeared on
      her desk. Petunia almost jumped back in shock at the ugly little
      thing with its leathery skin, bat-like ears on an over-sized head
      and bulging green eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lakey," the Deputy Headmistress said. "Will you fetch us some
      tea and coffee please? I suspect we will be here for a while."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The office of the Head of House Slytherin was a lot like the
      Potions dungeons. Cold, drafty-looking stones, shelves with all
      kinds of <em class="calibre8">things</em> drifting in jars on them, books that
      somehow managed to look nasty despite having plain coverings and
      closed bottles with mysterious substances. A fire lit in the
      fireplace as the assassin stalked in ahead, which somehow made the
      room look even eerier rather than more comfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Severus Snape sank into his chair and suddenly turned
      into someone else. His face showed the strange sad look that Harry
      had seen only once before, in a hallway several months ago.
      "Please, sit down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat down in the other chair, as the Potions Master
      incanted a series of privacy spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the Professor was done, he spoke again, with a strange tone
      to his voice. "Your aunt looks well. She has... changed, since I
      last saw her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded silently, still wondering what this was about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never knew that Lily made peace with her sister," the
      Potion's Master whispered. For a few moments, it was as though he
      had forgotten Harry's presence. But then he shook himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not know how best to broach this topic, Mr. Potter, so I
      will simply say it... before the Dementor, you recovered your
      memory of the night your parents died?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry silently nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If... I know it must not be a pleasant memory, but... if you
      could tell me what happened...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Harry said. His voice was solemn, definitely <em class="calibre8">not
      mocking</em> the pleading look that Harry had never expected to see
      from that person. "I wouldn't think that would be a pleasant thing
      for you to hear either, Professor –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Potions Master's voice was almost a whisper. "I have
      imagined it every night these last ten years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I –" Harry hesitated, but took a decision. It was not a request
      that Harry could really bring himself to deny. But he
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> get something out of it. It was not likely that he
      would have many opportunities to speak to the Potions teacher
      alone, and he might speak more openly without the Headmaster's
      presence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you tell me <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> how you came to learn about
      the Prophecy? I'm sorry to make this a trade, I <em class="calibre8">will</em> tell
      you afterward, only, it could be really important –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is little to say. I had come to be interviewed by the
      Deputy Headmistress for the position of Potions Master, and so I
      was waiting outside her office while the applicant before me,
      Sybill Trelawney, ended her interview for the position of Professor
      of Divination. Minerva had already opened the door to send her away
      when the prophecy came. As soon as Trelawney finished speaking her
      words, I fled, forsaking my chance at Hogwarts's Mastery, and went
      to the Dark Lord." The Potions Master's face was drawn and tight.
      "I did not even pause to consider why that riddle might have come
      to me, before I sold it to another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A <em class="calibre8">job interview</em>?" Harry said. "Where you and Professor
      Trelawney both happened to be applying, Professor McGonagall was
      interviewing, and the door just happened to be open at the right
      time? That seems... like rather a large coincidence..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seers are the pawns of time, Mr. Potter. Coincidence is beneath
      them, and they are above it. I was the one meant to hear that
      prophecy and become its fool. Minerva's presence made no final
      difference to how it came about. There was no Memory Charm as you
      supposed. The voice of a seer has a quality, an enigma which even
      Legilimency cannot share. How could that be imbued in a false
      memory? Do you think the Dark Lord would believe my mere words? He
      seized my mind and saw the mystification there, even if he could
      not seize the mystery, and so he knew the prophecy had been true.
      The Dark Lord could have killed me then, having taken what he
      wanted – I was a fool indeed to go to him – but he saw something in
      me I do not know, and took me into the Death Eaters, though on his
      terms rather than mine. That is how I brought it about, brought it
      all about, from beginning to end, always my own doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus's voice had gone rather hoarse, and his face was filled
      with naked pain. Harry filed the information away for future
      analysis – there were some <em class="calibre8">very</em> suspicious parts in this
      explanation, but he would have to go to the library to get a
      clearer idea of how prophecies worked. And he couldn't keep
      Professor Snape waiting while he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed twice, and began recounting the memory.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Wednesday afternoon, in the Deputy Headmistress' office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry..." she was almost pleading. "I had to spend quite some
      time assuring your parents yesterday that we were <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      deliberately involving you in a war." She had had good
      explanations, of course, because in this case they <em class="calibre8">were</em>
      quite innocent. But she had still felt monstrously guilty
      explaining to the Professor and his silent but obviously perceptive
      wife why their bright young child had turned into a grave adult
      over the course of the school year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy raised his eyebrows. "I do hope you're not letting them
      talk you into treating me like a child again. You are better than
      that, Professor. People are dying and <em class="calibre8">you need me</em>. If even
      a single life is lost or ruined because you withheld information
      for me, would that be worth it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hit her. Harry always had that way of pushing her triggers.
      "No eleven-year-old should even <em class="calibre8">think</em> about such
      things!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can agree to that," the Boy-Who-Lived answered reasonably.
      "But that is not the world we live in, Professor McGonagall. I am
      already thinking about such things. Is it better to work from old
      data and consider a lot of possibilities which are irrelevant, or
      to focus on what is actually happening? And something <em class="calibre8">is</em>
      happening, I can see it in the way you look and act."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How had the boy become so perceptive?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's been another attack." Albus <em class="calibre8">had</em> told her a few
      days ago that she should give the boy any information he asked for.
      He had looked sad, when he said that, but she hadn't pressed for
      his reasons. "A primary school in southern Wales."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A look of dismay passed over the boy's face, and then left, as
      the face settled into that too-hard look again. "Any
      survivors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody died," she answered. "But the children and teachers were
      all unconscious when they were found, and their right legs had been
      cursed off. St. Mungo healers are trying whether magical healing
      can regrow the limbs, but Professor Dumbledore says there isn't
      much hope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah." The boy seemed to consider this information. "Did they go
      back in time to..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," she immediately confirmed. It hadn't been foremost in
      <em class="calibre8">her</em> mind when she heard, she was too shocked to learn
      about the roughly hundred and fifty children who would be maimed
      for life, but Albus and Amelia had a different way of thinking.
      "Director Bones went back in time the instant she was informed, but
      it was already too late; the victims were unconscious and the
      perpetrator was gone. We learned about it only long after the
      event, you see. There were no Muggleborns, Squibs or anyone
      familiar with our world in that village, to warn us before the
      Muggle authorities got there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," the boy said again. "That's going to be hard to cover
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded. Albus had spoken heavily of the Ministry's and
      international concerns about that. <em class="calibre8">One</em> obviously magical
      attack in a week was quite a disaster already, but <em class="calibre8">two</em>
      might be enough to endanger the International Statute of Secrecy.
      The eyes of the magical world were upon them, now. He had added,
      with a grim note to his voice, that he had barely managed to stop
      the Minister of Magic from having all the children killed, as their
      deaths at the hand of some crazed killer would be far easier to
      explain than their survival in <em class="calibre8">this</em> way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," the boy said quietly. "I will think about
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you can't do anything here. And you don't <em class="calibre8">need</em>
      to. Why don't you leave this to Albus? He knows how to fight a
      war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy smirked bitterly as he stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I don't trust his judgment."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry trudged back to his dormitory, frustrated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">People were dying, or getting hurt for life, and there was
      nothing he could do about it. Even if he <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> stuck in
      this school, he couldn't anticipate where the enemy would strike
      next, and so he couldn't stop it from happening. Nor did he have
      the power to do anything about the consequences. He couldn't cast a
      charm that would give a schoolful of cursed children back a
      semblance of their legs. He couldn't trace down remaining Inferi,
      or cast protective charms over every single Muggle dwelling in the
      country, And if there were political aspects to this mess,
      Dumbledore wasn't telling him about them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So he stayed put, like a good little child. He spent time with
      his parents. He also spent a lot of time in the library, looking up
      spells that he could cast which might come in useful. He had nagged
      Professor McGonagall to sign a permission slip so he could look up
      information about prophecies and possession in the restricted
      section, but got almost nothing out of it: the books on prophecies
      had done little but confirm tentatively what Dumbledore and Snape
      had told him, whereas the books on possession were too limited and
      often contradictory. Quietly, in the secrecy of his trunk, he
      practiced speed-casting the True Patronus Charm – if it came to a
      confrontation, it might play into Quirrell's hands to be seen to
      block the Killing Curse, but it would, on the whole, still be
      preferable over <em class="calibre8">not</em> doing so. He had <em class="calibre8">tried</em>
      talking to Draco, but the boy seemed to be avoiding him. He still
      hadn't figured out a way to conclusively prove Hermione's innocence
      – using a Pensieve to reproduce his conversation with Quirrell
      <em class="calibre8">might</em> help a little, but it would lead to all kinds of
      questions about his history with Quirrell, including the Azkaban
      breakout. Even if that was not an issue, Pensieve-memories could be
      changed, so it wasn't likely to be enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He practiced dueling with Neville every day, even though he
      didn't expect those skills to be of any use: it would be years
      before he'd have the sheer magical power to even be able to disarm
      a Death Eater. As for landing <em class="calibre8">any</em> spell on Lord Voldemort,
      a.k.a. Quirrell, well, having gone over the possibilities it didn't
      seem like a wise thing to try. Never mind the chance that it would
      kill both of them – if their magic resonated out of control again,
      it might well cause a magical explosion with massive casualties.
      Quirrell might be able to stop that, as he had done before, but in
      this case he had very little incentive to be the surrendering
      party. It would be like a game of chicken, with incredibly high
      stakes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And besides all that, of course, he had done a lot of
      thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Grindelwald was my dark mirror. He was what I could have so
      easily become, if I had given in to the temptation of believing
      that I was always right.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had told him that, months ago, when the world still
      seemed innocent. Like Grindelwald had been his foe, he believed
      that Voldemort was Harry's, and therefore Harry should understand
      him better than anyone else. And in a way, Harry could see that
      now. Despite everything, he still felt a bond with the man he had
      known as Quirinius Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Had it all been an act? Or had some of his real self shown
      through? Harry suspected the latter. He could see how someone who,
      roughly, thought as Professor Quirrell had seemed to, would be
      willing to kill innocents to achieve some dark purpose of his own.
      What kindness and humanity he had shown had been a lie – and in
      hindsight, that was never very much to begin with – but his dry
      humor, cynical outlook and moments of depression might not have
      been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Why would someone deliberately become a monster? Why do evil
      for the sake of evil? Why Voldemort?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He still didn't have an answer to that question. The entity who
      had used Bellatrix Back, Memory-Charmed Hermione Granger, nailed
      Yermy Wibble's family's skins to a wall and now handicapped a
      schoolful of innocent Muggle children was empty inside, that was
      certain. He felt no warmth for other people at all, and did not get
      affected by their suffering. And it seemed plausible, although it
      was painful to imagine, that Professor Quirrell could be like that
      –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">– but not without good reason. That was the thing, really. Harry
      found it incredibly hard to believe that the person he thought he
      had known would <em class="calibre8">take pleasure</em> in the suffering of others.
      He might not care about it, but if he merely did not care, he would
      not go out of his way to inflict pain on innocents without an
      ulterior motive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What does he want?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had asked Professor Quirrell that question before. And
      he'd gotten a pretty clear answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I want Britain to grow strong under a strong
      leader.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Plan iss for you to rule country.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer fit what he had been doing. In the guise of Professor
      Quirrell, he <em class="calibre8">had</em> helped Harry grow stronger. He had taught
      him to control his temper. Had set him up as an army General and
      forced him to fight against impossible odds. Had helped him sow
      fear in the hearts of his schoolmates, when he had protected
      Hermione and the other heroines. He had painted him in a light that
      was both good and evil, light and darkness, so that Gryffindor and
      Slytherin would both be willing to follow him. And he had tried to
      get Harry to publicly defeat the Dark Lord again, with a large
      international audience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Why do evil for the sake of evil?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Harry had guessed correctly, the initial goal had been to set
      up an evil puppet for Monroe to fight. The greater the evil you
      defeat, the greater the hero. Yet this plan had failed, and so
      Monroe had disappeared, but Voldemort had gone on. He might have
      conquered the country easily, but he could not hope to also win the
      hearts of the people. There were too many who would never willingly
      follow a wizard who gained power by force, and thus Britain would
      stay divided, and not grow strong like he wanted. And so he
      <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em> conquered the country. He had prolonged the war,
      become known as the most terrible dark wizard in history. The
      scenario was perfectly set up to make a new hero arise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Harry Potter.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was the prophecy a fake? Severus Snape certainly didn't seem to
      consider it possible, but that didn't mean it wasn't. It just meant
      that Voldemort would have needed to know something that Snape and
      the others didn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A one-year-old child, with a prophecy about having <em class="calibre8">power the
      Dark Lord knows not</em>, who defeated the greatest dark wizard who
      ever lived. Harry had read some of the books about himself, and the
      theories as to why it had happened were <em class="calibre8">wild</em>. There were
      enough of them to allow everyone to believe whatever they wanted.
      And if that child went on to defeat that same dark wizard
      <em class="calibre8">again</em>, doing the impossible <em class="calibre8">deliberately</em>, and not
      as some strange kind of magical accident... such a hero might be
      able to unite the country.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why exactly would the person behind Voldemort / Quirrell /
      Monroe want <em class="calibre8">Harry</em> to rule the country? Because he thought
      Harry might end up doing exactly what he wanted done? Because he
      believed that he could manipulate him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because he fully expected to be able to control him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There <em class="calibre8">was</em> something special about the Boy-Who-Lived. He
      had a dark side which gave him extreme deductive power, and felt a
      mysterious feeling of doom around his destined foe. Dumbledore had
      guessed that Voldemort had tried a form of mind-control that had –
      unintentionally – grown into him. But if it had not been intended,
      then why would he still want Harry to rule? Why continue the same
      charade and play the part of Voldemort sowing terror?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had initially refused to participate in the plan to
      pretend-defeat Lord Voldemort, which would perfectly set him up to
      take a leadership role should the need arise. But his co-operation
      might not be required. If Voldemort officially returned, then Harry
      could hardly step aside. It might not happen at the International
      Confederation of Wizards – Dumbledore was making sure he was there
      every moment of the day (taking excursions back to Britain only
      when Time-Turned) and Moody covered the place when he was asleep –
      but there would undoubtedly be other opportunities. And he had the
      feeling this week's attacks were simply a stepping stone to his
      ulterior plan.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thursday evening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two of them were standing on top of Ravenclaw Tower
      together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Earlier that day, Harry had been surprised to see Parvati and
      Padma at lunch. He had plopped himself down next to Padma (he was
      going to have lunch with his parents, but he could be five minutes
      late) and given her a querying look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had turned out that she and her sister had been sent back to
      the comparative safety of Hogwarts, as their parents lived in a
      primarily Muggle town, and had been scared by the dual attacks.
      <em class="calibre8">And so it begins,</em> Harry had wryly thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was one advantage. Padma had also told him that she'd
      finished reading the books he'd given her. And before leaving,
      Harry had urged her to spend the rest of the day thinking about a
      world without death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now here they were. Twilight had fallen, with the stars just
      starting to become visible overhead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you ask me to imagine a world without death?" she
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you?" he asked in return.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded. "I would have called it silly last week. If you
      can't die, you'll just grow indefinitely older and get sick and if
      you get cursed you're screwed <em class="calibre8">forever</em>. But I guess what
      you really meant was a world where you don't <em class="calibre8">have</em> to die,
      right? Like in your books, people don't age, and diseases are
      curable, so you have eternal life <em class="calibre8">and</em> eternal youth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. That is what I meant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded again. "<em class="calibre8">That</em> would be rather nice. I guess
      overpopulation would become a problem, but then, we could solve
      that, right? If we can go to other planets..." She hesitated.
      "Muggles haven't <em class="calibre8">actually</em> done that, have they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They have gone to the moon," Harry answered quietly, looking up
      at the half-full moon above the castle. "And some other planets in
      our solar system. Not any further yet, but they will. They're
      figuring out the underlying rules of the universe, and even without
      magic I think they'll find a way to at least get to Alpha Centauri
      within the next century. There were only two generations between
      the first airplane and the first moon landing, and computers are
      still getting twice as good every one and half year. Add magic into
      the mix, and I imagine we could do wonders."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'd have to get around the International Statute of Secrecy,
      though," Padma pointed out. "Because even if wizards started doing
      science, there wouldn't be enough of us to make that kind of
      progress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would that be bad thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she said with a smile. "I guess not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you believe in it?" He kept his tone wistful, definitely not
      pushing. "Do you think we could do it? Unite the magical and Muggle
      worlds, get rid of old age and diseases, make <em class="calibre8">everyone</em>
      immortal, travel to other stars... Can you believe in that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked up to the stars in silence for a while.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," she said eventually. "But I'd like to try."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any guess why I asked you to imagine such a
      world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you want to built it?" she guessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is one of the reasons, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Dementors don't really fit in that picture," she
      hazarded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, for multiple reasons," he said with a smile. It was time,
      he decided. "They represent death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl beside him turned her head sharply. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fear is just a side effect," he explained, keeping his
      voice calm as though he were telling her something perfectly
      normal. "The Patronus Charm works best for those who are not afraid
      of death, and can think of happy stuff instead even when a shadow
      of Death is standing right in front of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," she said. Then, after a pause, "I can see why that
      wouldn't work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "But there is another way. I do not fear death
      either. Why fear what I fully intend to defeat? And nor should
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence, for a while.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're quite ambitious," she said eventually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry responded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After another minute of silence, she took out her wand, and
      looked at it thoughtfully. It was hard to see her face, now, as
      darkness had fallen while they talked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do I just think of that world you had me imagine, with eternal
      youth, and going to the stars?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't just think about it," Harry breathed. "Intend it. It is
      the world we will make together, you and I and Hermione, and
      everyone else who will join us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, and set her feet into the pose Mr. Lupin had taught
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there was light.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
