<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 94: Nihil Supernum, Pt 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 94: Nihil Supernum, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Friday April 17th, 1992.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Granger was pondering escape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wasn't <em class="calibre8">really</em> considering it, the otter had
      <em class="calibre8">told</em> her not to escape, and it would put the Aurors in so
      much trouble if she was found missing. But the otter had told her
      <em class="calibre8">not to</em> and that meant that it was possible, and at least
      she wanted to figure out how before deciding not to do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Cloak was bound to help. If she could somehow get outside,
      she could just walk towards the shore, and the Dementors wouldn't
      affect her; they wouldn't even notice she was out of her cell.
      Also, the Aurors wouldn't see her because she'd be invisible. But
      the only door in the fortress that she knew of was the door in the
      Aurors' Headquarters, and there was no way she could get through
      that without it being noticed. Plus, she'd be on the roof, fat lot
      of good that would do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No wait, <em class="calibre8">that</em> was easy. She'd already done it.
      <em class="calibre8">Gecko setae</em>. The material would probably work on metal as
      well as stone, so she could transfigure gloves and just <em class="calibre8">Stick,
      plop</em> invisibly down to the bottom of the building. A minor
      silencing charm would mute the sounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would be <em class="calibre8">really dangerous</em>, though. She had no
      feather-falling potion this time. And if there was wind, the cloak
      might get blown away while she was clinging to the wall, and she'd
      be exposed both to the Aurors' eyes and to the Dementors. There was
      no way for her to assess weather conditions from here. Besides, how
      would she even get to the roof, or otherwise outside?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What would Harry do?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. No way. Even <em class="calibre8">Harry</em> wouldn't be stupid enough to
      transfigure a hair into TNT and blow up the wall. Transfiguration
      had rules for a reason, and she felt dirty for even considering it
      as a remote possibility that someone else might do in the
      hypothetical escape situation that she was not, to be perfectly
      clear, at all considering really doing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What else would Harry do?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">General Chaos had many tricks up his sleeve; he used any remote
      bit of obscure magic or Muggle technology that he could think of.
      So now she browsed through her excellent memory for a way to make
      holes in the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh. Right. It wouldn't even require Muggle technology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So she could break out, climb down and simply walk to the shore
      unnoticed. That would be dangerous, but if she went down the stairs
      to the bottom of the building first, she could minimize the risks.
      Although then she might have to think of some Muggle methods to get
      from the island to the mainland, when she didn't even know the
      direction or how far she'd have to go... It would certainly be
      awkward to break out of Azkaban undetected, and then proceed to
      drown because she couldn't swim that far. But if she could
      transfigure a raft and a compass and just go east –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A distant yell broke her out of her thoughts once more. It was
      muted by the walls, but even so, it was still audible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She trembled. It was hard enough to <em class="calibre8">not think about it</em>
      for most of the day, when there was silence. Hard enough to just be
      content to study while her Patronus guarded the people in the cells
      next to hers, or in the corridor below her, but never both at once.
      Hard enough to ignore that, further down, people were suffering
      even <em class="calibre8">more</em>, and she could not help them because it would be
      <em class="calibre8">too dangerous</em>. But when she could hear the screams, it
      pierced right through all her mental barriers. Never mind that the
      scream itself meant that there was still a lot of life left in
      them, she wanted to <em class="calibre8">make it stop</em>, but to do so she'd have
      to take her Patronus away from the <em class="calibre8">other</em> people it was
      protecting...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt it, the Patronus going out of control. She clamped down
      desperately on her emotions, but it was already too late. For a
      split second, the badger in her cell seemed to stare down, and she
      quickly dropped her wand. The badger resumed its normal floating as
      though nothing had happened. The Aurors might have noticed, or they
      might not have. She'd find out soon enough whether they came down,
      but she didn't care right now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tears streaked her face. The Patronus made everything so much
      <em class="calibre8">harder</em>, it strengthened your emotions of protection. How
      could she cast it again and not have it go out of control now? But
      while she couldn't control her emotions, she wasn't protecting
      <em class="calibre8">any</em> of the prisoners, and they <em class="calibre8">all</em> needed her,
      the ones on her own level, and one level down, and all those others
      whom she couldn't reach, living in nightmares day and night. If
      only there was a way to protect them all...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe there was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The realization hit her with the force of a tsunami. The otter
      had <em class="calibre8">told</em> her how to do this. If she made her Patronus go
      bright enough, it would destroy Dementors, but she should never do
      that, for it would kill her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But if she could destroy all the Dementors in Azkaban first,
      wouldn't that be worth it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could send her Patronus down right now, down into the pit.
      The Aurors would see it, but if she <em class="calibre8">let</em> her emotions go
      out of control, <em class="calibre8">chose</em> to protect all the prisoners right
      away, they might not trace its source until it was too late. And
      with the Dementors gone, at last the prisoners of Azkaban could
      have... not much a life, really, take away the Dementors and this
      place was <em class="calibre8">still</em> worse than the worst Muggle jail... but
      they wouldn't be suffering any more, at least. Maybe it would
      help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I will die.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a scary thought. She <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> want to die, she
      wanted to live, to see that bright future without any Dementors,
      without death, without needless suffering and cruel prisons and
      evil governments, she wanted to be with her parents and Professor
      McGonagall, and Harry and Padma and Hannah and Daphne... And would
      her sacrifice even be worth it? She was only a child, she only had
      a little power, if she gave all her life-force and it wouldn't have
      destroyed all the Dementors, then wouldn't the prisoners still
      continue to suffer? Would it all be in vain?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then a bird appeared in her cell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She yelped, jumped back in fright, bashed into the wall and
      nearly fell over. Rubbing her head, she stared at the creature. Its
      eyes were bright, its shining wings flapping slowly, keeping it at
      eye level. It was surrounded by flames, red and gold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">CAW!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sssssh!" she shushed desperately. "What if they hear you, and
      come look?" How could she explain a <em class="calibre8">phoenix</em> in her cell?
      She didn't even know how it got there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Caw!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Let's go.</em> That was what it meant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whose phoenix are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Caw.</em> <em class="calibre8">Yours, if you choose.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix was here to help her, to destroy the Dementors in
      the pit and save all those prisoners who so desperately needed her
      help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you help me get down into the pit?" A Patronus was more
      effective if it was closer to its caster. If she was near the
      Dementors, the chance of destroying them all before she died would
      be much greater.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Caw.</em> Uncertain. She bit her lip. She <em class="calibre8">could</em> go
      out of her cell, walk down the many stairs of the building, and
      send her Patronus when she was at the bottom. It would be closer,
      but the walls were thicker there, she knew, and enchanted with many
      protections, or the Dementors would corrode them over time. She
      didn't know whether that would make a difference, but it might.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I break a hole into the walls here, can you fly me
      down?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Caw!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It will take me a few hours to do that, would you wait for
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Caw!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would wait until she was ready. The morning patrol had only
      ended an hour or so ago; she had plenty of time before the Aurors
      would come into her cell with the evening meal. Barring unforeseen
      circumstances like new prisoners, there was absolutely nothing
      stopping her from transfiguring a hole into the wall, being flown
      down into the pit invisibly, and throwing all her life force into
      the Patronus, to destroy every single Dementor that tarnished this
      place, if she could hold out for that long. She could <em class="calibre8">feel</em>
      the silvery light in her, even with her wand still on the ground,
      longing to burst out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she would die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The destruction of its prison would bring chaos to the country.
      And what was worse, they'd find out she had a wand. There would be
      <em class="calibre8">questioning</em>, and those kind Aurors who'd protected her
      would be in serious trouble. And Harry... if they found out she'd
      gotten <em class="calibre8">help</em>, they'd be sure to trace down her anonymous
      benefactor...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But at least she wouldn't be able to betray anything. If she was
      dead, they couldn't give her Veritaserum. They could never read her
      mind anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She swallowed then, and took her decision. Picking the wand up
      from the floor, she placed it against the wall, and started her
      transfiguration.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter, I have made a formal statement to the Ministry that
      your Time-Turner is locked to the hours between nine and
      midnight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure. By all means, tell them you've changed it. The point is,
      under the current circumstances, it is <em class="calibre8">madness</em> for me
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> to have all protections I could possibly have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hesitated, but finally she nodded, and opened her hand. The
      Boy-Who-Lived laid the Time-Turner into it, and she brought forth
      her wand and did as he had asked, releasing the time-keyed
      enchantment she'd laced into the shell's lock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter flipped open the golden shell, looked at the tiny
      glass hourglass within its circles, nodded, and then snapped the
      case shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you. And speaking of protections, I would also like three
      two-person broomsticks, six phials of feather-falling potion and
      three invisibility cloaks to store in my pouch and give to my
      friends. I would be happy to buy them by owl-order, but it appears
      that I have no authority whatsoever over my own vault. A number of
      spare wands and emergency-portkeys in the form of rings, toe-rings
      and other items of jewelery, and two spare Time-Turners for my
      friends would also be helpful. If you know of any spell that could
      be used to block light from a certain direction, I would like to
      learn it. And is it possible to acquire either dynamite or more
      subtle, magical ways to get through walls?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">With a sigh of relief, Hermione finished her
      transfiguration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She checked her watch. Ten past four. This had been a
      <em class="calibre8">long</em> trance, but that was not surprising given that she'd
      only trained with partial transfiguration for less than two weeks.
      But it was done now, and if she did not tarry, she could be out
      there before the Aurors came for the evening meal. And she had
      better, because even if the bird could hide itself, there was no
      way they wouldn't notice the fact that a one-millimeter-thin
      section of the wall, tracing the form of a 70-by-50-centimeter
      rectangle, had been turned into cotton. All except for the tiny,
      almost invisible bit at the top, where a buckytube fiber held the
      metal inside the rectangle into place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pulled a hair from her head, and transfigured it into a
      knife; thin, but with a long enough blade to reach the end of the
      wall. <em class="calibre8">That</em> was easier; just a normal transfiguration. She
      cut easily through the cotton. And then there was only a tiny
      buckytube string, holding up the heavy piece of metal, that
      separated her cell from the outside world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she finited the buckytube, and the tiny bit of the original
      metal broke because it could not hold up the whole rectangle by
      itself, there would be a loud clang, she figured, so she set up a
      silencing barrier so it would not be heard outside her cell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took the cloak out of the pouch necklace, and carefully took
      the latter off her neck. She rolled the necklace into the cloak,
      and laid it down, invisibly, below the bench.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was trembling, as she tried casting her Patronus again, and
      she had to clear her mind and repeat the incantation before it took
      hold, and the blazing humanoid appeared. There were only two things
      left to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She breathed, steaded her voice, and said: "Tell Harry..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"... not likely, but I will see what I can do," Minerva
      concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy looked grim. "I suppose I'll have to be content with
      that, for now. But why is the ministry so obstinate? Has Professor
      Dumbledore not explained the situation to them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He tried," she answered. "Some key figures like Amelia Bones
      believe him, but the Minister of Magic and others do not. With
      those people being certain to contradict him, it would be unwise to
      speak out in public." She sighed. "So instead he has told people
      that our Defense Professor has shown signs of evil, and that he was
      likely the one behind the attacks, and the Azkaban Breakout. We
      have preciously little evidence to go on, however. Even if they did
      acknowledge the situation, though, I doubt they would see the need
      to guard your friends with Time-Turners. Most Aurors don't have
      Time-Turners, only senior Aurors are even <em class="calibre8">aware</em> of them,
      and the Ministry keep close tabs on who possesses one. And while
      the Ministry would not object to a light-diversion charm, even I
      don't understand how it would help you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy shrugged. "Blinding enemies to get away without getting
      hit myself, to name an example. Most shields –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she almost jumped back in shock at the sudden light,
      she'd only seen <em class="calibre8">that</em> kind of brightness once before, as a
      blazing silver humanoid appeared in her office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," it said, in Hermione Granger's voice. "Someone gave me
      a wand, and books, and... People are suffering here, and they need
      help. So I'm about to cast your Patronus Charm, and not hold back.
      I will die, but maybe it will help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva gasped. Harry Potter sat rooted to his chair in horror,
      as the humanoid continued:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll leave the books in my cell, below the bench. Please say
      goodbye to my parents for me, I don't dare tell them myself. And to
      my friends, to S.P.H.E.W. and my army. Thank you for everything,
      Harry. You were always my best friend. I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! Wait!" Harry shouted, but the Patronus had already turned
      back and disappeared, it hadn't been instructed to wait for an
      answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned to her, then. "We've got to <em class="calibre8">do</em> something! I
      didn't mean for her to kill herself, that was <em class="calibre8">my</em> job, damn
      it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was shaken and struggled for words, but she kept calm. "This
      seems a bit over my head." What could she do to stop the girl, from
      here? "<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum</em>." The silver cat appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go to Professor Dumbledore, and tell him: An emergency has come
      up. I need you here immediately."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronus blasted back into the cell, and said in a strange
      voice, which she guessed might be her own: "Harry potter says:
      No!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook. She was <em class="calibre8">scared</em>. The wand slipped from her
      fingers, and the Patronus went out, leaving only the lesser light
      of the badger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Caw?</em> the phoenix asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She bent down and picked up the wand again. This was no time for
      hesitation. The other prisoners needed her. She took a deep breath,
      pushed aside all those fears, and forced down the sick feeling in
      her stomach. The last seconds of her life ticked away as she called
      back the will to protect <em class="calibre8">everyone</em>, pictured the bright
      world that they could make – perhaps she wouldn't be part of it,
      but this first step would contribute – and pointed her wand at the
      wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Finite Incantatem.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With an enormous <em class="calibre8">crash</em>, the metal fell onto the floor
      before her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She grabbed the phoenix's tail in her left hand, bent down low
      enough to fit through the hole, and launched herself off the edge.
      As she fell – the phoenix soaring down together with her, bringing
      her right over the center of the pit, the unmitigated fear of more
      than a hundred Dementors washed over her, but she was not afraid.
      She pointed her wand straight down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the world exploded in a burst of silver light.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Tick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was taking <em class="calibre8">too long</em>, every second's delay might mean
      it was already too late...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then a burst of flame announced Dumbledore's arrival in the
      office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor, we need to get to Hermione <em class="calibre8">now</em>! She's going
      to destroy all Dementors, and she'll die, and I <em class="calibre8">have</em> to
      help!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore didn't argue, he just grabbed the boy by the
      arm, and with a burst of fire they were in Azkaban. There was a
      small hole in the wall, just enough for a child to fit through if
      she curled up. And on the other side of the hole –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't hesitate. He scrambled down to the floor, pointed
      his wand right at the center of the supernova outside, and yelled
      "<em class="calibre8">Somnium!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The light disappeared.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Li jumped back from his chair as suddenly light flooded in
      through the window. Silvery light, as though from a Patronus, but
      <em class="calibre8">outside</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the –" Bahry exclaimed, and then they all jumped back as
      the light burst through the window, shining like the sun, and they
      could not see, but they could hear it all too clearly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Phoenix song.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The light almost blinded Li even with his eyes shut tight, he
      could <em class="calibre8">feel</em> it on his skin, and his heart filled with joy
      and release at the light and the song. It was terror and beauty,
      joy and agony, as he fell to the floor and lay there for long
      seconds, his whole being vibrating with the song.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then, almost as suddenly as they had come, the light and the
      song both cut off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All three Aurors were lying on the ground. They looked at each
      other in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Gerard McCusker who first ran to the window and looked
      down. He turned back to them in a confused horror. "Where have they
      gone?" But Li had already known. Something felt... <em class="calibre8">right</em>
      that had always been wrong when he was here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm calling Director Bones," Bahry One-hand grunted. "Call back
      your Patronus, Mike. She'll probably be here five seconds after I
      give the alarm."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The light disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no feeling of emptiness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind him, Dumbledore was casting incantations in something
      that sounded like Latin, and then he grabbed underneath the bench,
      and Harry saw the cloak and pouch appear in the old man's
      hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dementors are gone. I do not sense them anymore," the
      Headmaster said. From the folds of his robes, he produced a
      broomstick somehow, which he made invisible with a wave of his wand
      and pushed into Harry's hands. Then he threw the cloak over him.
      "Go. Go now, while they are too preoccupied with Miss Granger and
      the other prisoners to notice you. Use the portkey in your game of
      cards when you're a few miles away, after twenty minutes or so.
      Then let whoever is there help you get back to my office in
      Hogwarts, and meet me there half an hour ago. I will take care of
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked out of the small hole, towards where Hermione was
      lying. Was that... a phoenix by her side? But Dumbledore was right,
      he should hurry. He could find out the truth later. "Don't change
      her memories."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Her memories will betray that she had your cloak, and that will
      implicate you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So be it. A large part of her personality ties in to her
      brilliant memory, and the things she learned in the last two weeks
      might be important. She's already got two fake memories, I don't
      want any more of that stuff in her head. If she cannot rely on her
      memories, it might destroy her!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. But now <em class="calibre8">go</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He went. Nobody saw, or stopped him.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore cast a few spells to weaken the protections on
      the pouch, and carefully placed it back beneath the bench. Then he
      turned himself and Fawkes invisible, widened the gap in the wall
      briefly to pass through, and let the phoenix fly him to the window
      of the Aurors' Headquarters two levels up. The room was already
      filling up with people, Auror after Auror entering through the
      cabinet. He selected a suitable trio of not-overly-experienced
      Aurors, quietly flew right behind them, and turned visible with a
      burst of fake flame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wands turned on him. "Hold your fire," Amelia Bones's voice
      commanded. "I was <em class="calibre8">wondering</em> whether we'd be seeing you
      here, when I got the message less than a minute after you were
      called away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Potter boy warned me," he explained simply. "He said he had
      information that Miss Granger might be about to do something very
      foolish."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
