<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 98: Nihil Supernum, Aftermaths, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 98: Nihil Supernum, Pt 5 – Aftermaths</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stood doubtfully before the gargoyles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After <em class="calibre8">catching on fire</em> and blazing up in the mostly
      abandoned Great Hall (that <em class="calibre8">had</em> been a pretty wonderful
      experience – far better than the portkeys the Aurors had used to
      transport her from and to the Ministry), Professor McGonagall had
      gone to her office while Harry led her and his parents to a
      pleasant little apartment she hadn't seen before. There, they had
      had lunch (lunchtime was over, but Professor McGonagall had
      promised to have food sent over there anyway). Hermione had been
      bursting with questions, but with Harry's parents there, she didn't
      dare ask them. Dr. Verres-evans and Mrs. Evans-Verres were
      obviously trying to project confidence towards their son, but it
      was abundantly clear that they had been pretty shocked by the whole
      situation. So she and Harry had gently filled a little conversation
      with talk about phoenixes and their abilities (Harry's father
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> seemed rather interested in the idea of using
      phoenixes for space travel, and had made a number of interesting
      suggestions), and then left afterwards so the two adults could have
      their breakdown in peace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had proposed going to Professor Dumbledore with her, but
      then Vincent Crabbe had come and ordered Harry to "da boss". She
      wasn't invited and couldn't come along to say thank you (she'd have
      to find a way to do that afterwards, preferably in private as he
      might not want to be seen associating too much with a Muggleborn),
      so she'd gone to Dumbledore's office on her own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the gargoyles, she realized, had not been informed of the
      appointment, and she didn't know the password. Should she go to
      Professor McGonagall, or –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at Xare, who cawed in agreement. You couldn't
      Apparate or Disapparate in Hogwarts, but phoenixes did not seem to
      be subject to such restrictions. She pictured the end of the
      spiraling stairway in her mind, right before the door, and grabbed
      the phoenix's claw. One burst of flame later, she stood at the
      place she had imagined, and knocked. The door instantly swung
      open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster of Hogwarts, Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot and
      Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards was
      sitting behind his desk, a twinkle in his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Miss Granger," he said brightly. "Do come in. I was
      wondering whether you would use the door or simply come straight
      into the office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That wouldn't exactly be polite," Hermione answered, as she
      stepped inside and the door automatically closed behind her. She
      sat down into the deep, fluffy chair that was placed on the other
      side of the desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed it would not, but those of us who enjoy the company of a
      phoenix do not always observe such niceties. Now..." Some of his
      earlier seriousness returned. "Has Mr. Potter already informed you
      of the events which have occurred in the last two weeks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she shook her head. "we were with his parents, you see,
      and..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They have quite enough to be going on with, yes. Well, then I
      suppose I shall give you the rough overview. Miss Granger, Lord
      Voldemort didn't really die when he attacked Mr. Potter some ten
      years ago. I knew he could not have – there were many reasons to
      believe that he had taken precautions against physical death, and
      is effectively immortal until we find out how to negate those
      precautions – but have kept it a secret to avoid widespread panic.
      I also hoped that the respite would be long enough to rebuild our
      world and increase our strengths before the next war comes,
      although I fear it may have come too soon. The man you know as
      Quirinius Quirrell was in fact the shade of Lord Voldemort,
      possessing the body of what I suspect was initially a willing
      victim. Since Harry realized the connection last week, Professor
      Quirrell has fled the school and gone on to terrorize Muggles, by
      sending an army of Inferi against a town in Scotland and by
      attacking all children and teachers in a primary school in Wales.
      Hundreds of Muggles have died in the last week, and almost a
      thousand have been severely wounded or permanently maimed, while I
      have honestly no clue as to what his purpose is. He was, of course,
      also behind the event that had you sent to Azkaban, which, given
      that he saved Mr. Malfoy's life, seems to have been solely aimed at
      you – or rather, at manipulating Harry by putting you in danger.
      Oh, and before I forget, there is a prophecy that identifies Harry
      as Voldemort's destined enemy, who will grow up to be his equal,
      and will have power he knows not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She blinked. "That's rather a lot to take in at once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do apologize for burdening you with this, Miss Granger.
      However, whether you wish it or not, you are involved now. Lord
      Voldemort has chosen to use you twice. What is more, as the second
      person in our country with a phoenix – and, indeed, the first
      without a tainted history – people will look to you for
      protection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a little too much. <em class="calibre8">War?</em> Hundreds of deaths? And
      <em class="calibre8">Professor Quirrell</em> being <em class="calibre8">Voldemort</em>? She knew all
      about the last war, of course. Everyone did. The idea of all that
      starting over was terrifying. And Dumbledore expected <em class="calibre8">her</em>
      to take a lead in the fight?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she could see, in her mind's eye, a town full of Muggles
      getting slaughtered by Inferi. She could see the faces of her
      Housemates, who almost never spoke of their family because there
      was always someone in earshot who'd lost someone dear to them. And
      she could imagine Hannah, and Parvati, and Hufflepuff Mike and even
      some people she only knew by face, and the idea of any of them
      getting hurt was just too terrible and <em class="calibre8">of course</em> she'd do
      what she could to stop that, but what <em class="calibre8">could</em> she do... Xare
      nuzzled her face affectionately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No savior hath the savior...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm only twelve," she whispered desperately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet you are a hero, Miss Granger," he said with a sad
      smile. "And always will be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would you have me do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing, for now. I merely wished you to be prepared for the
      inevitable. Ultimately, this battle truly is Harry's, for he is
      Voldemort's destined enemy. But he could never be everywhere at
      once, and other heroes will be needed. As for the present, there
      are different concerns. I believe Harry's book list for you
      contained an introductory text on Occlumency?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," she answered. This seemed like safer ground. "But I
      didn't get very far. These exercises seem really hard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would not expect you to succeed them so quickly. In fact, you
      are too young. Occlumency lessons are generally not attempted
      before the age of fifteen at least. But in your case, it
      <em class="calibre8">is</em> dangerous that you cannot hide your thoughts.
      Therefore, we should perhaps arrange something after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if I can't learn it yet..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I sincerely doubt that you will be able to succeed a complete
      block, at your age. But with enough training, you may be able to
      detect intrusion, and that will already be helpful. The question is
      <em class="calibre8">how</em> to train you. We went to quite some lengths not to
      spread any knowledge of the secret revealed in today's proceedings
      beyond those who can use it to cast the spell. Unfortunately,
      anyone teaching you Legilimency would certainly learn of all you
      least wish to be known –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That didn't sound particularly pleasant, even if she wasn't
      trying to hide anything important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– so whichever instructor we find for you must agree to be
      Obliviated afterwards." He looked briefly tired. "But that would
      not suffice, would it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her thoughts flashed back to the panicked look on the face of
      the Obliviated Auror, Shacklebolt, when he failed to recast his
      Patronus the first time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about someone who was at the trial?" she suggested.
      "<em class="calibre8">They</em> couldn't be harmed further."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster shook his head. "I would gladly teach you myself,
      Miss Granger, but that must not be. Remember that <em class="calibre8">two</em>
      pieces of information were removed by the Aurors after the trial.
      One, the secret that will curse you to be forever unable to cast a
      Patronus Charm. The other, the way of casting the True Patronus
      Charm. If I should learn the former, then the latter will be
      unlocked, and <em class="calibre8">that</em> a simple half-hour Obliviation would
      not remove. Taking into account that the agreement we made
      crucially relies on <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> accepting the Obliviation,
      Lucius Malfoy would not be pleased if he learned that I had been
      told the secret afterwards." He sighed. "A flaw which I really
      should have considered at the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see." She thought about it. "So it would need to be someone
      who wasn't at the trial, and who already cannot cast the Patronus
      Charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would that be enough?" He asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I think so. If he or she gets Obliviated afterwards, at
      least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster nodded. "Very well, I shall arrange that." He
      extended a hand to Xare, who, after a questioning look at her,
      hopped gently onto his hand. "Now. About your family... Harry has
      insisted that his parents stay here, for their protection. I did
      not believe it necessary at first, but on closer consideration, he
      might well be right. However, I am quite certain that yours are not
      in a similar danger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Danger?</em> "Would V– You-Know-Who attack them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't think so. He stands little to gain from attacking
      them – his interest seems to be focused on Harry, and Harry, I
      believe, would not be severely affected by your parents' deaths.
      You have been targeted, but only for Harry's sake. I <em class="calibre8">will</em>
      ward your parents, of course, in as unobtrusive a way as possible.
      But I don't think it would be in their best interests to uproot
      their lives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A cold hand of fear clasped around her heart as the Headmaster
      spoke so calmly of her parents being murdered. She took a deep
      breath, then another, forcing herself to consider his words rather
      than protesting immediately. It hadn't even <em class="calibre8">occurred</em> to
      her that her parents might be in danger. Even if it had, she
      wouldn't have considered asking for them to stay here before the
      Headmaster brought it up. If anything, she'd try to persuade them
      to leave the country, but they would lose all their clients if they
      just left on short notice, so it was very unlikely that she could
      convince them that they were in enough danger to do that –
      especially since, according to the Headmaster, they
      <em class="calibre8">weren't</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She swallowed. "What kinds of wards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The strongest I can provide for them. I shall ward them myself,
      before the day is through. They will have emergency portkeys and
      methods to give warning to either me or the Auror office – that
      much I can do without giving them undue alarm, as a safety measure
      after the attacks in Easingwold – and numerous invisible wards and
      detection of any magic in their vicinity. I promise that they will
      be as safe as I can make them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right then," Hermione sighed. "Can I see them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Dumbledore looked uncomfortable. "You <em class="calibre8">can</em>,
      certainly... but whether it's a good idea –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard gently rubbed the firebird's beak. "With a
      phoenix, few places in the world are closed to you, so yes, you are
      able to visit your parents if you so wished. However, I do urge you
      to be cautious. While <em class="calibre8">they</em> are not likely targets,
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> are, and therefore in leaving the protection of the
      Hogwarts wards to visit them, you might inadvertently endanger
      them. What is more, you are in the unenviable position of not being
      able to be honest with your parents without giving them great
      alarm. Can you envision how they would respond if they should learn
      of the dangers you have faced, and may still be facing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They'd be terrified," she breathed. They'd want to take her
      away from Hogwarts, from <em class="calibre8">magic</em>. If they learned the full
      story, they definitely wouldn't want her anywhere near Harry. They
      might well try pulling her out of school against her will. She
      could stop that by filing for independence with the Ministry of
      Magic, but she couldn't do that without effectively losing her
      parents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see you comprehend the danger," the Headmaster spoke after a
      pause. "Miss Granger, this decision is truly yours. Your parents
      have been told that you are sick with Spattergroit – a highly
      infectious disease, which keeps them from visiting you, and which
      would have explained your death if your sentence had ended
      differently. You might choose to continue the deception, or to
      reveal the lie to them; that decision is entirely between you and
      your parents. However, whichever path you follow, you must not act
      rashly. Weigh your options before you take a step."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will." Maybe she could find someone to talk to about this.
      Were there other Muggleborns who'd been in situations like this?
      There had to be, surely, there'd been a war only ten years ago and
      Muggleborns had been targets. But none of those were people she
      <em class="calibre8">knew</em>, or whom she could easily approach with
      questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the first time ever, she really wished that she had a
      magical relative, an adult. Someone she could talk to about this
      sort of thing, who would understand what had happened and who knew
      the Muggle world and could give her advice. Hell, she'd even be
      happy with just someone she could talk to like she talked with her
      parents but who would be familiar with magic and all around it, who
      would know what Azkaban was and what a phoenix meant, someone who
      understood the world she lived in and wouldn't go mad with fear if
      she told them what had happened to her. Professor McGonagall was
      close, but she had many children to be responsible for, and it
      wasn't quite the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you thinking of?" The Headmaster asked gently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was wondering..." She looked at the ancient man, who had
      known her grandmother, spent months with her. "You were a friend of
      Elizabeth Beckett, weren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," he said sadly. "I do apologize for not telling you about
      her, but I felt it was not my place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know whether I have other magical relatives?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None in Britain. John and Elizabeth were estranged from the
      rest of their family. There might be some distant relatives in
      America, but none that I would know how to find."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, only slightly disappointed. It had been a long shot
      anyway. "Do you have any pictures of my grandmother?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hesitated, but only briefly. Then he stood up. "Come."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's face did not betray anything when Harry stepped into the
      otherwise abandoned classroom Crabbe had led him to. He could not
      guess what his friend was thinking. But he knew what <em class="calibre8">he</em>
      should say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked at him coldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Harry repeated. "You might well have saved my life
      as well as Hermione's today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't do it for you," Draco said with a slight sneer to his
      voice. "I did it for Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now <em class="calibre8">that</em> was something you wouldn't expect to hear
      every day from that particular direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm sorry,</em> Harry did not say, because he
      <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em>, and still he had to stop himself from blurting it
      out. Today, Draco Malfoy had stood up against his father to defend
      a Muggleborn, which would probably never have happened without
      Harry's manipulation, and that was a wonderful event that might
      well reshape the future political landscape of magical Britain, but
      Harry could only imagine what it might have cost the boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You swore enmity on my house," Draco said, his voice
      controlled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh. Right. He had totally forgotten about that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, I'm sorry. I didn't mean it! It was just... I was trying
      to find anything to say that would stop your father from sending
      Hermione to Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you honestly thought <em class="calibre8">that</em> would work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your father seemed scared of me. It was the only thing I could
      think of then. I'm sorry, I <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> thinking properly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief look of consternation on Draco's face, as
      though he was remembering something relevant. But then his features
      turned cool again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My father asked me to suggest that we dismiss the enmity
      between our Houses. Do you accept?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. I shall let him know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I won't consider you my enemy anymore. But let's get one more
      part straight." Draco was staring at him now, a fierce light in his
      eyes. "<em class="calibre8">You wronged me. And you owe me.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Acknowledged," Harry said quietly. "Conditional on the rest of
      it, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. Then his face relaxed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of debts," he said in an artificially light tone.
      "Have you determined whether Dumbledore deserves your enmity
      yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually," Harry answered, "I wanted to talk to you about
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not going to chicken out on me, are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. The thing is... I <em class="calibre8">have</em> made progress. I asked him
      about the things you told me – well, not about his sister, that
      would just be too personal, but the other stuff – and he had some
      surprisingly good explanations..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Good explanations?</em>" Draco repeated incredulously. The
      anger seeped from his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not saying – look. About the Grindelwald thing..." he
      paused a moment, giving Draco time to calm down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had told him that Grindelwald had a dread device that
      made him truly invincible – at least while his Muggle pawns were
      providing him with blood sacrifices. Without those sacrifices, his
      defenses had still been impenetrable even by the most powerful
      wizard alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry had a pretty good idea what that dread device was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd <em class="calibre8">felt</em> it, when he held Dumbledore's wand. The sheer
      power running through his fingers. Another man's wand was supposed
      to be <em class="calibre8">less</em> powerful than your own, but this one felt
      somehow <em class="calibre8">right</em>, even as there was the sense that it was not
      <em class="calibre8">his</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The feeling reminded him a lot of his cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had not recognized the dark wood, which meant that it could
      well be elder, a very unusual material for wands. And if Dumbledore
      possessed the elder wand, the Deathly Hallow that was supposed to
      increase its wielder's spell power by a thousandfold, making him or
      her truly undefeatable, there was one obvious place where he might
      have got it. Grindelwald could not be defeated with spells alone.
      His shields unbreakable, his attacks immeasurably powerful. But
      while Dumbledore could dodge Grindelwald's spells, and keep
      attacking to drain his magical power, eventually exhaustion would
      set in. It was, quite possibly, the only flaw of the unbeatable
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Dumbledore had asked him not to speak of it, for none must
      suspect that he possessed the device in question. And that made
      sense too, as there were probably a lot of wizards who would
      happily murder him in his sleep for it, or else attempt to steal
      it. And it would be <em class="calibre8">dangerous</em>, for such a person to hold
      such a wand. Much safer to keep it in Dumbledore's hands who was,
      at least, not trying to use it against other people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He gave me an explanation, but he made me swear not to tell
      anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre8">come on</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't sure whether to believe him at first, but I have seen
      proof since. On my art as a rationalist, I promise that by my best
      judgment, I think he was telling the truth: he had a very good
      reason to postpone his attack, he really did fight until
      Grindelwald fell over in exhaustion, and he also has a good reason
      not to speak of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco frowned, but he seemed to consider the words at their
      value, at least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure what to think of that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you shouldn't be," Harry shrugged. "I can promise you that
      I judged as best as I could, but it's perfectly reasonable to want
      to see the evidence with your own eyes rather than just taking my
      word for it. That's what scientists <em class="calibre8">do</em>. But at least this
      should tell you that an alternative explanation exists, and that it
      can seem convincing enough to at least mild scrutiny by a rational
      person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded, his mouth a thin line. "And the rest of it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Careful now.</em> If it was difficult for <em class="calibre8">Harry</em> to
      objectively assess the morality of torturing an innocent to death
      for cool utilitarian considerations, it would be a lot harder for
      Draco, whose mother had <em class="calibre8">been</em> said innocent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did your father ever tell you about the circumstances of...
      your mother's death? I mean, did he tell you <em class="calibre8">why</em>
      Dumbledore said he did that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore just told him it was a <em class="calibre8">warning</em>." Draco's
      voice broke. "A <em class="calibre8">warning</em>! What kind of warning is
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But your father never told you what the warning was for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does it matter? He just wanted to hurt father! He's evil!"
      The last words came out as a scream.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People don't usually do evil just for the sake of evil, Draco.
      And Dumbledore has a phoenix, he <em class="calibre8">can't</em> do evil without at
      least believing that it serves a noble purpose, don't you see? If
      he just... If he killed your mother for revenge on your father or
      some other petty reason, Fawkes would leave him! So if he really
      did it, he <em class="calibre8">has</em> to have had a reason, that was enough that
      he could at least convince <em class="calibre8">himself</em> that it was worth
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was breathing heavily. "Like. <em class="calibre8">What?</em>" He glared at
      Harry. "How can you even <em class="calibre8">consider</em> that there is a good
      reason for <em class="calibre8">that</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco..." Harry looked him in the eyes. "How many innocents has
      your father tortured to death, or delivered into Voldemort's hands
      for that purpose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco gasped and stepped back, as though hit by a physical blow.
      "That is... I don't... That was not the same thing at all and you
      know it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't it?" Harry spread his hands helplessly. "Consider the
      reverse situation. Suppose Dumbledore <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> just take
      your mother, but he burned other relatives of Death Eaters as well,
      and his friends <em class="calibre8">helped</em> him do that... And then suppose
      your father got the wife of one of those friends in his
      hands..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop." Draco had turned his face away. There was a sob in his
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fell silent. He wasn't mad or cruel enough to push his
      friend. What he'd just done to him was bad enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a while before Draco spoke again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre8">does</em> sound an awful lot like revenge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "It was a standoff. You-Know-Who and the
      Death Eaters had no qualm hurting the families of those who
      resisted them, because they believed Dumbledore would never
      retaliate in kind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco just stood there, his back still turned to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't <em class="calibre8">know</em> whether he did it," Harry said
      eventually. It was a risk, perhaps, to raise this possibility, for
      if Lord Malfoy would come to believe that Dumbledore had lied it
      would endanger light-side families again. But surely Voldemort
      would have thought of this too, and <em class="calibre8">he</em> had accepted the
      standoff. "He had every motive to take the credit if someone else
      did it. Or maybe he killed her, but he didn't <em class="calibre8">burn</em> her,
      and he just faked the evidence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shook his head. "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a while, he turned around. His face looked a bit red, but
      otherwise coolly controlled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He still owes us a debt, no matter how good his reasons might
      have been. So, are you taking him as your enemy or not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still don't <em class="calibre8">know</em> whether he did it, Draco," Harry
      pointed out. "I know <em class="calibre8">why</em> he did it, <em class="calibre8">if</em> he did it.
      But –" (as the boy started looking angry again) "I have taken first
      steps towards taking him as my enemy. I don't accept him as my
      mentor, or follow his little plans. And I <em class="calibre8">don't</em> trust his
      judgment. Frankly, I was rather <em class="calibre8">peeved</em> when he stopped me
      from buying Hermione free, and that's just one example. Is that
      enough, for now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco just looked at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think I am ready to deliberately go and destabilize
      him, even if I could," Harry clarified. Draco seemed to be
      demanding more, but that, Harry was not quite ready to give yet. "I
      don't like what your father is doing very much either, and whatever
      else, Dumbledore <em class="calibre8">does</em> put a check on him. Also, he is
      legally my guardian and he could make my life really difficult, if
      he wanted to." <em class="calibre8">That, and I may need his help to deal with the
      Voldemort problem. I don't think Lucius Malfoy would be as
      co-operative, even if I</em> did <em class="calibre8">help him get rid of
      Dumbledore.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go," Draco said softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He went.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A deep silence clung to this room, a stark contrast to the
      office below. A crystal globe hung on the ceiling, casting a silver
      light over the black walls and floor. And below that, rows upon
      rows of pedestals with photos, broken wands and other objects. Her
      breath stopped in her throat as her mind refused to process what
      she was seeing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is this place?" she whispered, although most of her
      already knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Think of it as a graveyard," the Headmaster answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No,</em> she thought, <em class="calibre8">not a graveyard</em>. This was far
      more than that, for, she suspected, he had known every single one
      of the people here. Godric Gryffindor might have had a room like
      this, for the many friends he had lost in battle. But she had never
      thought of Albus Dumbledore in that way, and it almost broke her
      heart to see the kind old hero here among the keepsakes of the
      fallen. He had done so much, and lost so many.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come." He strode through the pedestals, and with only a little
      hesitation she followed him, until they reached –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She blinked. Upon the pedestal where he stopped was a picture of
      <em class="calibre8">herself</em>, not moving, because it was the one she recognized
      as her last school photo before Hogwarts. Beside the photo lay her
      wand, unbroken. He took it, and silently handed it to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose this pedestal will not be needed anymore," he said
      matter-of-factly, taking the picture and putting it somewhere into
      a pocket of his robes. Then he tapped the pedestal with his wand
      and it sunk down into the ground. He stepped to the side, leading
      her to the pedestal next to this one, which bore a single photo and
      a cylinder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This," he said, "is your grandmother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman in the picture was about thirty years old. Short of
      stature, she thought (although it was hard to tell in a photo) and
      a bit squatty, with black hair hanging loosely down her back. She
      seemed kind, even though there was a strong, unyielding expression
      in those dark-brown eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no wand on the pedestal, not even a broken one. Most
      other pedestals <em class="calibre8">did</em> hold a wand, and Dumbledore had been
      with her when she died, hadn't he? That was what he had told her
      before, when speaking of his battle against Grindelwald: <em class="calibre8">fewer
      remember Elizabeth Beckett who died opening the way so I could pass
      through</em>. Had another relative inherited it? Or...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened to her wand?" she asked. Her voice came out
      sounding almost normal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was shattered," Dumbledore says simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But he doesn't say when</em>, she noted. Had Elizabeth
      Beckett lost her wand in the battle where her brother died, and
      later fought with his wand in place of her own? She almost asked
      whether he would consider himself a <em class="calibre8">friend of the family</em>,
      but she knew better than to do that. She was not an Occlumens yet,
      and if the Headmaster was the one who had helped Harry help her, it
      would be better for her not to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at the picture again, wondering about the woman she
      had never known, but with whom she still felt a connection. What
      had she been like? Gryffindor, Head Girl, brilliant scholar and
      extremely brave. But those were just words, it still didn't let her
      <em class="calibre8">know</em> her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come," the Headmaster said gently. "It does not do to dwell on
      the past. We had better live in the present, and I believe you have
      more than enough present concerns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That</em> was certainly true. She nodded, and allowed him to
      steer her away, down the stairs, back to office where Xare waited
      for her on Fawkes's golden podium.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was lying in his bed, silent tears streaming over his
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't fair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why did Harry keep doing this? Wasn't it enough that he'd taken
      Draco's belief in blood purity, did he have to whittle away at his
      grasp of good and evil too?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The painful thing, the horrible thing was that a part of him
      realized that the Boy-Who-Lived was right. He had always envisioned
      Dumbledore's acts against his mother as senseless cruelty, but of
      course they weren't <em class="calibre8">just</em> that; it had been a war, both
      sides fighting for what they believed in. If he was completely
      honest with himself, Dumbledore <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em> done any evils, as
      far as he knew, that father would not have done in his place. Even
      killing his sister – if a Squib girl was born in the
      <em class="calibre8">Malfoy</em> family, it was not at all inconceivable that she
      would have an accident before anyone ever found out about it. And
      the thing with Grindelwald... he didn't think father could have
      pulled that one off, but if he could get away with it, he
      <em class="calibre8">would</em> have, and Harry had seemed quite certain that
      Dumbledore hadn't even done that anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet of course, <em class="calibre8">obviously</em> Dumbledore was evil. But
      if you started thinking like that, you had to wonder about Lucius
      Malfoy too...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sobbed, and cursed the day in Diagon Alley when he first
      met Harry Potter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum. Dad. What are your plans?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hadn't been long after his meeting with Draco that Harry had
      realized that there was a very important thing he had forgotten to
      discuss. Excitement of the day notwithstanding, tomorrow classes in
      Oxford would start again and Professor Verres-Evans might be
      tempted to return to work. So Harry had quickly aborted his stride
      towards the Ravenclaw common room, and turned into the corridor
      that led to his parents' apartment instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're staying here," mother answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that's great," Harry said with a surge of relief. "You
      believe in the danger now, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your Headmaster was here just a few minutes ago," father said.
      "Apparently he's already arranged for me to have had a severe
      'accident' while on holiday in Canada. I am now apparently staying
      in a private clinic there, and it will expectedly take at least
      until the end of the semester before I am fully recovered." He
      shrugged. "It would have been more polite if he'd asked us first
      whether we agreed with the arrangement, but it seems that I'm now
      on sick leave for the rest of the school year, and I don't mind
      that. Today's events have made me realize that, well, you appear to
      be caught up in something larger than I would have expected, and
      whether your mother and I are in danger or not, we'd both prefer to
      be here to support you when necessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks, Dad," Harry sad. "And Mum. It does mean a lot to me."
      Knowing that his parents were as safe as Dumbledore could make them
      was helpful, although not quite enough to not worry about their
      safety at all. But if Voldemort could break into the school, then
      he could also hurt Hermione, or Draco, or any of his other friends,
      so at least he didn't need to be <em class="calibre8">more</em> worried for his
      parents than for all the other people he cared about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I guess you'll be having a lot of time for research this
      semester, Dad? With no teaching duties to distract you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, actually," Professor Verres-Evans said. "Your Headmaster
      has offered your mother and me both positions as guest
      lecturers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What?</em> What will you be teaching?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggle Studies," mother said. "I'll be telling third-years
      about daily life in Oxford and I'll give an introduction to law to
      the fourth-year students. Your father will teach some basic ideas
      of science to the sixth-years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," father added. "Apparently Professor McGonagall was
      intrigued with some of the ideas you told her about, even if she
      considered them quite absurd." He showed a brief smile. "I suppose
      I am going to have an interesting time with this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes." Harry answered, a gleam in his eyes as he imagined the
      primarily pureblood students getting introduced to ideas such as a
      court system where <em class="calibre8">innocent until proven guilty</em> applied,
      or learning about questioning your beliefs and the experimental
      method. He was pretty sure the Headmaster was planning to shake the
      students up a little, at least where his mother was concerned.
      Perhaps Dumbledore had only intended for his father to explain the
      <em class="calibre8">results</em> of science, but Harry knew him too well to doubt
      the lesson plan. "You two are going to be <em class="calibre8">awesome</em>."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In his office, the Headmaster of Hogwarts spun his Time-Turner
      four times, and set off to find Padma Patil. If anyone would
      benefit from being told how to send a Patronus to someone else, and
      at what time doing so might just be a good idea, the girl whom
      Harry Potter had named his heir was probably it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hermione entered the Great Hall for the after-holiday
      feast, Xare riding on her shoulder, there was a sudden hush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone turned to stare at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the applause started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It started at the Gryffindor table, of course, but then the
      others joined in. Ravenclaw, Hufflepuff... Even a fair few
      Slytherins were clapping, which surprised her briefly until she
      realized that of course several of the children in that House had
      relatives in Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She arrived at the Ravenclaw table and sat down next to Su.
      Harry, who had apparently walked in right after her, sank down on
      her other side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm glad you're back," Padma said from where she was sitting on
      the opposite side of the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So am I," she said. And she was, even as she suppressed a brief
      note of sadness because nothing ever would be the same again. She
      had gone to Azkaban and returned with a phoenix. There was a war
      going on, and sooner or later she might be called upon to protect
      her friends as well as strangers. The days of plotting battle
      tactics against Harry and Draco, caring about house points and
      telling everyone that Harry was not her boyfriend were over. But
      still, it was good to be back home at Hogwarts.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got the Slytherin delivery after dinner, and read it later
      inside his trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I did it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-LL</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
