<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 82: Taboo Tradeoffs, Final, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 82: Taboo Tradeoffs, Final</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> loyal HPMoR readers may
      recognize some of the lines in this chapter. This is because,
      despite the rather significant change in chapter 81, parts of the
      story are still going into roughly the same direction as in the
      original – both in order to resolve open plot lines, to explain the
      choices in the last chapter, and simply because these conversations
      made sense here!</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>

      <p class="calibre6">Phoenix travel was a sensation entirely unlike Apparition or
      portkeys. You caught on fire – you definitely felt yourself
      catching on fire, even though there was no pain – and instead of
      burning to ashes, the fire burned all the way through you and you
      <em class="calibre8">became</em> fire, and then you went out in one place and blazed
      up in another. It didn't sicken the stomach like portkeys or
      Apparition, but it was a rather unnerving experience
      nonetheless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry caught fire and went out and blazed up somewhere else; and
      just like that, he and the two Professors and the bird were
      occupying another place. A very well-organized bedroom, with a
      shelf full of books above it. A painting of a teenage girl was
      hanging opposite the bed, and a wardrobe stood in a corner.
      Professor McGonagall stumbled toward the bed, and lay down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard squeezed her shoulder comfortingly, and then
      turned and reached one of his arms around Harry; and the
      Boy-Who-Lived and his Wizard vanished in another burst of
      flame.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry had fully lit up again he was standing in the
      Headmaster's office, amid the noises of a dozen dozen inexplicable
      gidgets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard sat down heavily inside his chair and fixed his
      piercing blue eyes on Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder whether there will come a day when I regret not
      killing you when you were in my power, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That blow hit home very hard. Harry knew that the Headmaster was
      right. He <em class="calibre8">had</em> given in to the darkness today. Given in so
      badly that a good person would be justified in killing him to avoid
      whatever he might come to do next. He had genuinely been about to
      kill two thirds of the Wizengamot. The idea seemed nothing but
      horrendous to him now, and yet he had been ready to do it only
      fifteen minutes ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope I have managed to convince most of the Wizengamot that
      you were bluffing," Dumbledore continued. "But I have never yet
      known you to lie. What is more, I know well that you are no fool,
      and you must have been aware that a bluff like <em class="calibre8">that</em> would
      not have impressed the members of the Wizengamot. Tell me. How
      would you have achieved it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Dementors are Death, and the Patronus Charm works by
      thinking about happy thoughts instead of Death.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Harry's theory was correct, that one sentence would be all it
      took to pop the Aurors' Patronus Charms like a soap bubble, and
      ensure that nobody within reach of his voice could cast another
      one. And since he had <em class="calibre8">announced</em> that the Dementor would
      Kiss certain people, either their expectations, or Harry's threat
      of its destruction, would make the Dementor obey. Those who had
      sought to compromise with the darkness would be consumed by it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot tell you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster nodded, as though he had expected this
      answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you would have. As young as you are, and for all your
      ideals, you were prepared to destroy the very souls of
      seventy-three people, including two parents of your friends. Will
      you become a Dark Lord, Harry? Without Hermione standing in your
      path when you lose sight of the light, what will your first great
      evil be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't answer. <em class="calibre8">Without Hermione.</em> For the first
      time, the immensity of his loss hit him. It had simply been
      unthinkable before, a terrible prospect that must be avoided at all
      costs, but he hadn't gone so far as to mentally prepare himself for
      the possibility of it <em class="calibre8">actually happening</em>. Yet now, it was
      a reality. She would never sit by him, or study with him, or walk
      next to him, or tell him to be nicer... she would be in a small,
      dark cell, screaming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No, I didn't mean it, please don't die!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It all came back to him, but it was worse, so much worse, to
      think of Hermione there. He just couldn't imagine it, it hurt too
      much to even think of it in abstract terms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why won't she be with me?" he yelled. "Because <em class="calibre8">you</em>
      wouldn't let me save her!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can discuss that point later." Dumbledore's voice brooked no
      refusal. "Now, we will speak of your choices."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wanted to protest, but Dumbledore's gaze was cold and his
      demeanor more authoritative than ever before. Guilt battled briefly
      with anger, but at last he tore his eyes away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know it was wrong." Harry looked down at the desk. "Hermione
      made that clear to me. I shouldn't have done it, shouldn't even
      have considered it for more than a few seconds. I <em class="calibre8">will</em> do
      better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was your dark side, wasn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up in surprise. The Headmaster had never explicitly
      referred to it before, even when he had alluded to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes, I know of your dark side. I have a variety of theories,
      even. However, I had been hoping that you could control it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can! But today... I needed to call on it. My dark side came
      up with the debt plan, too. But then –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You lost control." Dumbledore sighed. "I understand. This must
      have been very trying for you. However, if one such failure of
      self-control creates this kind of response from you, I shudder to
      think of the faith of the world." He stood up, opened one of his
      wardrobes, and took out a stone basin. "There is something I want
      you to see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard placed his wand at his temple, closed his eyes
      for a few moments, and then withdrew it. A thin silvery thread was
      attached to the wand, and he dropped it in the basin. With a
      swirling movement, the liquid turned into a small whirlpool inside
      the basin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This memory is from today. I used Legilimency to speak to
      Hermione Granger at the end of her trial. Put your head into the
      Pensieve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nervously, Harry obeyed, sticking his nose in. Immediately,
      there was a swirling sensation, and then suddenly he was back into
      the hated Hall of the Wizengamot. Not from the spectators' seat,
      but rather looking out from the podium in the highest of the
      half-circles. He was looking straight at Hermione, who was trying
      to look strong, but quite failing not to screw up her face into
      knots of misery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am sorry, Hermione." Dumbledore's internal voice, as he
      remembered it, sounded strange to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please help Harry." This was Hermione's voice, somehow echoing
      inside his mind. "If he turns evil, that's worse than anything
      else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He does not listen to me like he does to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then ask him for me to promise never to give in to his dark
      side. As a last favor to me, ask him to promise to try never to do
      what I would tell him not to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the distance, Malfoy was talking, but Harry didn't pay
      attention to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will do so," answered Dumbledore's internal voice. "Please
      forgive me for what happens next."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am scared..." Hermione's voice trembled, but she didn't
      continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The memory ended with a shock and Harry ripped his head out of
      the glowing liquid of the Pensieve, gasping as though he'd been
      deprived of air. He was crying again, he realized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I promise," he said, his voice choking as he pushed back the
      tears that came despite all his best efforts. "I'm <em class="calibre8">sorry</em>.
      I shouldn't have done it and I won't ever be like that again, and I
      won't give in to my dark side, I promise I'll always consider what
      Hermione would want me to do." He wiped the sleeve of his robe over
      his face. "But I am going to get her out. I will find a way that
      she wouldn't disapprove of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked at him long and hard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you can prove her innocence, she might yet be saved.
      However, as you well know, she was extremely sensitive when exposed
      to the Dementor in January." He suddenly looked very old. "Foolish
      though it was, there is one good consequence that may come of your
      interference at today's trial: it will not be a happy memory to
      her. If she can steer her thoughts to dwell on this rather than the
      memories of her supposed misdeeds, at least it may allow her to
      remember who she is. Even so, I do not expect that she will be able
      to retain her sanity for more than a few days. A few weeks, and she
      will be beyond recovery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry bit his lip. A few days to get her out. If he could break
      out <em class="calibre8">Bellatrix Black</em>, then surely someone as nonthreatening
      as Hermione Granger shouldn't be a problem. The main problem was
      that there was no way he could do it without adult help; he didn't
      have a portkey, or the sheer magical power to break a hole into the
      walls of Azkaban or to fool the wards. Maybe Professor Quirrell
      could help him, but would he be willing? He didn't care much for
      Hermione, and would not want Harry to risk his future for her. Even
      if he would help, the Professor had not returned from custody, and
      every moment Hermione spent in that place that still haunted his
      nightmares was too much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could Dumbledore help him? But he, too, did not exactly have
      Hermione's best interests at heart, did he?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you stop me from saving her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster looked weary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because she is not worth a hundred thousand Galleons, Harry.
      Few people are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre8">actually</em> put a value on her life. And you put it
      well below a hundred thousand Galleons." Harry's voice sounded
      hollow in his ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what price do you put on her life then? A million
      Galleons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you familiar with the economic concept of 'replacement
      value'?" The words were spilling from Harry's lips almost faster
      than he could consider them. "Hermione's replacement value is
      infinite! There's nowhere I can go to buy another one!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhere inside him, his Slytherin side was glaring
      contemptuously. <em class="calibre8">You</em> do <em class="calibre8">realize that you're talking
      mathematical nonsense here, don't you?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is Minerva's life also of infinite worth?" the old wizard said
      harshly. "Would you sacrifice Minerva to save Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes and yes," Harry snapped. "Professor McGonagall would be
      happy to make that sacrifice herself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then Minerva's value is not infinite," said the old wizard,
      "for all that she is loved. There can only be one king upon the
      chessboard, Harry Potter, only one piece that you will sacrifice
      any other piece to save. And Hermione Granger is not that
      piece."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Life is not a game of chess! This is a <em class="calibre8">person</em> you've
      sacrificed!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Dumbledore rested his face in his hands for a moment,
      but when he looked back at Harry, his gaze was controlled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am well aware of that. But so is every other friend or ally
      you will have to save. For make no mistake, Harry, this will not be
      the last time such a choice is required of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, trembling in her chains. Looking at him with that
      last, tearful look of farewell. And Dumbledore wanted him to go
      through that again, <em class="calibre8">choose</em> for it to happen when
      alternatives were available. It was almost unthinkable. Harry
      screwed up his eyes as his wonderful imagination filled in the
      dots. This time it had been Hermione. Would Draco be next? Neville?
      Mother or father?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People cannot live like that," he whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not everyone can," the old wizard said softly. "I have had to
      learn it the hard way. I would spare you that lesson, Harry. If you
      were free to live a normal life, I might have let you do it. It
      would have been a foolish choice, which you would have paid for for
      the rest of your life, but if you were free, I might have let you
      do that for your friend, and you might not have come to regret it.
      But you are <em class="calibre8">not</em> free. You have a war to fight during your
      life, and when you are leader of that war, your allies will expect
      you to make more sensible decisions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tears were prickling behind Harry's eyes again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And should I kill for money too? Or kill one innocent to save
      two others?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard did not answer. And Harry remembered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's why you did it, isn't it? That's why you burned Narcissa
      Malfoy alive in her own bedroom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore's gaze was cold as he answered. "There is no
      way to answer that question without immeasurable harm, whether yes
      or no. I will say this, though: the Death Eaters <em class="calibre8">believe</em> I
      killed her, and they believe that for every innocent on our side
      they took, an innocent of theirs would die in the same way. That
      belief is what has kept safe the families of all those who served
      the Order of the Phoenix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And is it true?" Harry said. There was a buzzing sensation
      filling him, his body growing more distant. "What Draco said, that
      Narcissa Malfoy never got her hands dirty, that she was only
      Lucius's wife? She was an enabler, I get that, but I can't back
      that deserving being <em class="calibre8">burned alive</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing less would have convinced them that I was done with
      hesitation." The old wizard's voice brooked no question and no
      refusal. "Always I was too reluctant to do as I must, always it was
      others who paid the cost of my mercy. So my friend Alastor told me
      from the beginning, but I did not listen to him. You, I expect,
      shall prove better at such decisions than I."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was shaking. Inside him, Slytherin was nodding along, but
      his other parts were recoiling in horror. Partly, he knew that the
      Headmaster was right. There <em class="calibre8">were</em> limits to the value of a
      human life. And Harry probably <em class="calibre8">would</em> be better than
      Dumbledore at this sort of thing. He knew the math, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it was understood, somehow it was understood, that
      utilitarian ethicists didn't <em class="calibre8">actually</em> rob banks so they
      could give the money to the poor. The end result of throwing away
      all ethical constraint wouldn't actually be sunshine and roses and
      happiness for all. Somehow Harry had understood that, even before
      anyone else had warned him. Before he'd read about Vladimir Lenin
      or the history of the French Revolution, he'd known. It might have
      been his earliest science fiction books warning him about people
      with good intentions, or maybe Harry had just seen the logic for
      himself. Somehow he'd known from the very beginning, that if he
      stepped outside his ethics whenever there was a reason, the end
      result wouldn't be good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Why am I still here?</em> he wondered. Hermione was in
      Azkaban; imprisoned, tormented, but not yet lost. He had to go and
      <em class="calibre8">think</em> for an hour or so, and come up with a plan to save
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Would Dumbledore help him? The old wizard cared for Hermione,
      obviously. He probably valued her more than the 200 Galleons
      standard bribe for being caught in Azkaban. But most of all, he
      cared about Harry's safety. No, he cared for <em class="calibre8">the hero</em>'s
      safety. He would not allow Harry to risk his reputation for her. If
      he knew what Harry was planning, he could simply stop him from
      doing so until it was too late to recover Hermione. It might only
      take a few days, after all, or a few weeks at most, before
      prolonged Dementor exposure would break her mind beyond repair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked up in the Headmaster's eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I will be, maybe I won't. But for now, I am not prepared
      to walk away and leave my friends to die when they can be saved.
      And I am not prepared to throw away all my ethics for some
      <em class="calibre8">greater good</em> either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was like the old wizard had been struck, struck by a chisel
      that shattered him straight down the middle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have I said?" the old wizard whispered. "What have I said
      to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye, Headmaster." And with those words, he marched out the
      open door, and onto the endlessly turning spiral.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
