<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 100: Lost Innocence, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 100: Lost Innocence</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:30am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 1)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">DEMENTORS ARE A PHYSICAL EMBODIMENT OF DEATH. YOU CANNOT
      FIGHT THEM ANYMORE. YOU CANNOT RUN. TODAY, THEY WILL ATTACK.
      PREPARE TO DIE.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The words slammed into Hermione's consciousness. She winced, and
      then winced again as she realized the implications.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">They have no consciousness of their own,</em> Harry had said
      earlier. <em class="calibre8">They will act as people expect them to do. People</em>
      thought <em class="calibre8">they could make deals, and that's why it worked.</em>
      And she had known that it was true. Attacking the members of the
      Wizengamot, rather than the two prisoners, had not been in the
      interest of yesterday's Dementor – but it had done so because
      everyone expected it to. And in January when the Dementor had
      spoken to her, she had been afraid for Harry and distrustful of
      Professor Quirrell, and it had told her exactly what, deep down,
      she expected to hear. And in speaking those words <em class="calibre8">she</em> had
      set expectations too, which might have been part of what had given
      the Dementor its power over Harry afterwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With these words, Professor Quirrell – Lord Voldemort – had
      perfectly set up the expectation that Dementors would attack. And
      that would make them act. Even far away from wizards, Muggles who
      had never known about Dementors would fear them. They would expect
      death to come for them, and therefore, come it would.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost on the instant of the message, two pictures with notes
      attached appeared in the air and drifted down. Alastor grabbed,
      read, and then thrust one to Barnok, and the other to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two people to Russia, two to France."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Bones had explained that in the early minutes of the hour,
      sometimes they would be sent somewhere together, as there were
      places with too many Dementors for one person to expectedly handle
      – Albus Dumbledore had suggested that Hermione's destruction of
      Azkaban had nearly killed her, so chances were that this was
      approximately the maximum size a single True Patronus-caster could
      handle with the help of a phoenix. So, they had agreed that Harry
      and Hermione, who both had experience destroying Dementors, would
      ideally split up at least the first time, and help Padma and
      Lesath, who had not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They wasted no time. Barnok and Sally both looked at the photo
      and then grabbed Harry and Lesath and disappeared in equal bursts
      of flame. Hermione took the hand of the strange, pock-marked man,
      stared briefly at the picture, and then passed it to Tamara before
      envisioning the place. She touched Xare's claw, and an instant
      later they were in the building of the picture, with dark-blue
      walls, and wizards running in terror. Only seconds had passed since
      the announcement, and the guards of this Dementor-prison had just
      seen their Patronuses pop. Fear and cold burst around them like a
      whirlwind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aaah!" Padma screamed, but Hermione wasted no time. Any second
      now, a Dementor might catch one of the guards, and these were
      Dementors with reason to be really, <em class="calibre8">really</em> angry. Pushing
      all her <em class="calibre8">will to protect</em> towards her hand, she raised her
      wand. "<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma followed the example, failing at first, but on the second
      try the Patronus <em class="calibre8">did</em> come. She still looked shaky,
      however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't let the fear get to you," Hermione urged. "Think of it as
      – as five seventh-year bullies coming at you with wands out. Sure,
      you're afraid, but that wouldn't stop you from trying to hex
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma nodded. "Now how do we do this?" The two Patronuses were
      blocking the Dementors' progress, but it wouldn't stop the effect
      from filtering out in other directions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just <em class="calibre8">want</em> to destroy them. Let go of your restraints."
      As she spoke, she did so, her Patronus growing. Padma followed
      suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenixes sang, and cried on them. It was a marvelous moment
      as they felt all Dementors in the dome dissolve one by one, as the
      French guards stared at them in bafflement. It was like Azkaban had
      been, but <em class="calibre8">better</em>, because they were doing it together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor Moody nudged her. "Stop." He was wearing dark
      spectacles. The Dementors must be gone; no need to protect these
      people further. She willed her Patronus to dim again, and beside
      her, saw Padma do the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was wonderful," the other witch sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm glad you like it," Moody grunted. "Because you'll be doing
      it until you fall over in exhaustion. Let's get back to the
      Ministry for the next task."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:30am and 20 seconds, the Russian Dementor
      containment park)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fear is not natural!" Harry yelled at Lesath. "It's just
      your enemy trying to make you afraid! You can destroy them
      first!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy had fallen over at the first wave of despair – which
      Harry could hardly blame him for, it had been far worse even than
      the lower levels of Azkaban – but now a determined look crossed his
      face, and he tried casting again (Harry kept his Patronus away from
      Lesath, of course – if he couldn't cast the spell under these
      conditions, he shouldn't be doing this).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those people, Lesath. They are good people. They need us. Help
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It sounded hesitant, and the Patronus came slowly, but it came.
      And when it was there, it grew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well done, Lesath."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, my –" he turned it into a cough. "Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now... let go of your barriers. Pour <em class="calibre8">everything</em>
      into the spell. But make sure you can stop when they tell us
      to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so he did, sending the silvery feelings out into a joyful
      burst of light. He had imagined what this would be like, before.
      Dreamed so often of going to Azkaban and just letting go and
      burning away every last Dementor in that dreaded place. He had
      cursed himself over and over for not taking the chance when the
      phoenix came to him, when he could have gone and survived. And now
      he was finally doing it. He wasn't sure whether this place was also
      used as some kind of human prison or was just there to block
      Dementors – given the lack of walls he suspected that there had
      been <em class="calibre8">some</em> kind of deal with these Dementors at least – but
      it didn't matter. Dementors should not exist. And after today, they
      wouldn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Barnok, the Ethiopian phoenix owner who was accompanying him,
      shook him, and Harry let go of his wand. The light winked out;
      Lesath had stopped before him. All around them lay the tattered
      cloaks of over a hundred Dementors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't you hear me?" Barnok asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, slightly embarrassed that Lesath had
      managed to control himself better than he had. "I was too much into
      the spell. Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's go," Sally suggested, and she and Lesath disappeared
      again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:32am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 1)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The instant Pamda and Hermione reappeared in the DMLE, a note
      was already fluttering down. Alastor Moody grabbed it. "Two people,
      India."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment, Harry and Lesath appeared again, and Padma just
      saw two new notes appearing before she, Hermione, Alastor and
      Tamara burned up.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:33am, the Indian Dementor-villlage)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They arrived at a dreary-looking village, surrounded by forests.
      It was mid-afternoon, but despite the lack of clouds it didn't seem
      sunny, here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Auror's crazy blue eye rolled around in its socket even as
      the brown eye looked at her. "Other side," he ordered, and a new
      image was pushed into her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She obeyed, and they reappeared at a different part of the
      village, close to vegetable fields and rows of fruit-bearing trees.
      Here, the feeling of dread was worse by a tenfold. People were
      here, Muggles by their looks, but weak, scrawny. Some were
      shouting, or running back towards the village. Some had fallen
      over, just holding up their hands to ward off an invisible foe. And
      from the forest, the sense of fear and despair was increasing, as
      the Dementors who apparently surrounded this village in large
      numbers were closing in. Dumbledore had described places where
      Dementors were deliberately given Muggle victims to drain over
      time, and this seemed like it might be one of them. Those poor
      people...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the distance, she already saw the burst of silver light as
      Padma had cast her spell. Hermione quickly followed suit. From
      today on, the people of this village would finally be free.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:38am, Detroit, USA)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was night, here. Nothing indicated that anything was wrong,
      except a deep, miserable feeling in the air. The note sending Padma
      and Tamara to this area of Detroit had been blue, indicating that
      Dementors were known to live around here, but that their exact
      location was unknown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She raised her wand and cast the spell again. And yes,
      <em class="calibre8">now</em> she felt them. There were several, in the weathered
      buildings around her. She held on while she felt them, and then
      lowered her wand, nodded to Tamara, and flamed off to receive her
      next assignment.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:41am, a small settlement in Australia)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had cast the Patronus spell the instant Xare brought
      her here, but they had arrived too late to stop it, and the few
      moments before the Patronus appeared had been enough to
      <em class="calibre8">see</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some man, terrified, batting wildly at the air as a Dementor
      grabbed him and placed itself over his mouth. In that single
      instant, <em class="calibre8">just</em> before she could help, the eyes changed from
      terrified to utterly dead and empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wanted to cry out, but she needed all her concentration to
      hold on to the Patronus, to protect the <em class="calibre8">other</em> people here,
      and so she forced herself to protect everyone, and not let herself
      see those empty eyes again in her imagination until the last
      Dementor was gone. And then her wand slipped from her fingers as a
      sob rose in her throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This place had been on a purple note: Dementors expected (they
      probably lived in the forest area around), but likely too far away
      to need to go for them immediately. And that, it seemed, had been a
      miscalculation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man who had been taken right before her eyes had only been
      one of the victims. Behind him, she saw others, many others, their
      empty bodies still standing or even walking, but all with those
      same horrid dead eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A hand was laid on her shoulder and her wand thrust back into
      her hand. "Hermione... We must go on." The voice was gentler than
      Alastor Moody had been so far, and this was the first time he
      called her by her first name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, and looked out over the battlefield again. Besides
      the Dementor-Kissed, there were other people, moving carefully
      among the victims. Many had died, but more were still alive. And
      that was what it meant to be a hero too, she realized. It wasn't
      just doing scary things and going to Azkaban and dying for a
      greater good. It was also <em class="calibre8">losing</em>, losing <em class="calibre8">badly</em>,
      and going on anyway to help those who still lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today was going to be horrible, she knew, as she held Moody's
      hand and touched Xare's claw to go back to London. But every single
      life that could be saved was worth fighting for.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:46am, the temporary Dementor-crisis control
      chambers)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia looked at the red note with a frown of worry.
      <em class="calibre8">Already?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was handling the distribution of assignments over the
      children in the six rooms. The other countries had agreed to trust
      her to take the lead, both because the children who could destroy
      Dementors were all British, and because she could be expected to be
      fair, as the United Kingdom and Ireland themselves were unlikely to
      be attacked (all their Dementors had been around Azkaban or in the
      Ministry). In the first minutes, she had sent them to all the
      large, controlled pockets whose control suddenly fell away. Those
      were done. Next were the locations of <em class="calibre8">expected</em>
      Dementor-pockets: most governments kept tabs on where Dementors hid
      out, even if they didn't explicitly capture or make deals with
      them, so Aurors of all countries had been Apparating around to
      check for the feel of Dementors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A red note indicated a confirmed attack, but the frightening
      thing was the location. The note named a district in <em class="calibre8">Lashio,
      Burma</em>, and she was pretty sure that that city had <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      been on the list of expected places. Which meant that it hadn't
      been a priority to check out by Aurors and government officials, so
      this report must have come from someone noticing a Dementor
      <em class="calibre8">without</em> explicitly looking for it. And she had a pretty
      good idea of what might have caused them to notice. How long had it
      taken them to notify the right people in their Ministry?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at the numbers of the six doors surrounding her.
      Someone had just arrived in the first room, so procedure called for
      her to send this assignment there. <em class="calibre8">Poor child.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:47am, Lashio, Burma)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the light faded away, Harry stared at the carnage. People
      were running and screaming. A child was sobbing in a corner next to
      the vegetative empty hull that might have been its mother, once.
      Near the doors and on the stairs and escalators, the ground was
      slick with blood and gore, from the people who had been trampled in
      the mad panicking rush as everyone tried to flee the invisible
      horror. And all around, dead blank stares looked into space, from
      the faces of people who were just standing, or walking at random,
      or who had fallen over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One Dementor had done this. Attracted by the shopping excitement
      of a Monday afternoon, and unrestrained by the threat of
      Patronus-captivity, the thing had entered a busy mall and gorged
      itself. It had not worn a cloak, and Muggles could not see
      Dementors, so the people had never seen the creature that was
      killing them. But they had <em class="calibre8">felt</em> it, and they had seen the
      effects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People are dying," he said hoarsely. He didn't <em class="calibre8">know</em>
      anyone here, but the blood and the limbs and the empty eyes shook
      him on a deep emotional level anyway. "Can you send your phoenix to
      the wounded?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," the Ethiopian wizard sighed. "You are needed elsewhere. I
      am notifying the authorities to send a cleanup squad here. Other
      phoenixes can heal, today. We have different people to save."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:51am, Hogwarts)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael was worried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't come for breakfast, even thought he had
      <em class="calibre8">said</em> he would. Then there had been that strange voice in
      his mind, and he had suddenly remembered all that had been said at
      the trial. He had a strong feeling that Harry was wrapped up in
      this somehow, but nobody had come to explain, which could either
      mean that he was wrong or that whatever was going on was too
      serious to waste time on talking to some Muggles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so he had ventured out of the apartment and tried to find
      his way to the Great Hall. Petunia had not wanted to join, probably
      because she was far too sensible to risk getting lost in a magical
      castle, but you didn't become a university professor by avoiding
      risks. So Michael had gone alone, while Petunia stayed behind to
      raise the alarm if he would not return.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't even <em class="calibre8">that</em> hard. Their apartment was close to
      the Entrance Hall, and even when the staircase he tried to descend
      ended up in an entirely different place than where it had seemed to
      go when he started walking down, there was a remarkably helpful
      portrait to point him back on track. So it was only six minutes
      later that he stepped through the large open doorway into the Great
      Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Students were scattered around the hall. A lot of the food on
      the four tables was left uneaten. There were shouts of "<em class="calibre8">Expecto
      Patronum</em>" everywhere, but no apparent results. <em class="calibre8">Yes,</em>
      he thought. <em class="calibre8">Something definitely seems wrong.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall walked towards him with a resolute
      step.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Verres. I am so sorry, but we had quite forgotten about you
      in all the chaos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay," he answered. "But what's going on? And where's my
      son?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah." Michael considered the situation. His son was off saving
      the world. He should probably be more worried, but since yesterday
      the part of his brain in charge of estimating task difficulties was
      confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Little children grow up indeed.</em> There didn't seem much
      point in trying to be a good, supportive father for a small
      child-going-on-teenager anymore. But perhaps he could still be an
      acceptable lackey to a young hero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there anything I can do to help?" he asked the Deputy
      Headmistress. She seemed hesitant, so he quickly added: "I think
      that if I had magic, I would be able to do that spell. Hermione's
      explanation resonated a lot better with me than it seemed to do
      with the other people yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now she looked <em class="calibre8">interested</em>. "Do you also understand why
      you are different in that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded. "It's a classical error of thinking, the belief that
      some realistic developments are just too good to be true. But I
      have a little more grounding in history, and I know where the human
      mind tends to go wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stared at him. "Can you teach us?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:59am, Almere, Netherlands)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dark-haired goatee-wearing man, who had fallen over next to
      Lesath, looked a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> like he remembered his father.
      Father, who was now safe, whom he would get to visit and maybe even
      take care of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Muggles were running and screaming, and unmitigated Dementor
      fear washed around him, but Lesath didn't care. It was unnatural,
      as Lord Harry Potter had said, and there was nothing to frighten
      him anymore. They could fix the world, together. This was just a
      part of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked at the terrified middle-aged man. <em class="calibre8">Everything will
      be alright, dad.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once more, the silver light fled from his wand, spreading over
      the sports stadium. He could feel it enveloping the people and
      touching those shadows of Death spread out over the place. Some of
      them were close, some of them were distant, but if he opened up
      enough, he could destroy them all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The light brightened and brightened; even with his eyes closed
      it was intense, but he could <em class="calibre8">feel</em> them getting torn
      apart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No more Dementors!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">These monstrous creatures would never soil the earth with their
      presence again, they would never hurt anyone he cared about
      again!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could almost feel the life leaving him, but he didn't care,
      he was doing what he needed to do...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:00am, Almere, Netherlands)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sally desperately clung to the fallen body of the boy she was
      supposed to be protecting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh no. No no no no no.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had been looking at the Dementors, not the boy, and so she
      had only realized what was happening when he fell. And yet
      <em class="calibre8">more</em> light had flown from his wand even as he was falling
      unconscious, so she had snatched it out of his hand, but it might
      already be too late...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despair washed over her. The last, most distant Dementor was
      still there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Shit!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a burst of flame, she, the boy and the phoenix arrived at the
      entrance of the Dalton Magical Malady Center. She grabbed her
      mirror, barked to the responding Auror that someone else needed to
      get to Almere, and drew her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Innervate.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy did not stir.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Vitalis Revelio</em>," a Healer who had rushed over said,
      and Lesath Lestrange was surrounded by a weak pink-red glow. He was
      an inch from death, but he still lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several incantations later, the Healer had determined that he
      was not in any real danger, but did need rest. The phoenix tears
      had stabilized him, but he had almost no life force left, and there
      was only so much even a phoenix could do. He was transported to one
      of the beds in a private ward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A few hours sleep should do the trick," the Healer promised.
      "And let your phoenix cry on him every ten minutes or so, that will
      speed it up. After that, I'd recommend a few days of minimal
      exertion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sally sighed. <em class="calibre8">One down, three to go.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:05am, Hogwarts)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you see," Michael concluded, "you are taught to accept
      certain 'facts of life'," (he made the airquotes, of course),
      "Seven centuries ago, people accepted that the only ways to
      preserve knowledge were to either learn it by heart, or hand-copy
      texts. A hundred years ago, no one would have believed that it was
      possible to go through childhood without contracting measles,
      smallpox and various other diseases. Sixty years ago, it was almost
      impossible to imagine Europe not torn by war. Fifty years ago, the
      idea of people leaving the earth was an absurdity. And even now,
      many people – including wizards, it seems – do not realize that
      complete information freedom is within reach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The world is not fixed. Just look at how much has changed in
      the last century alone! I don't know what the future will be like,
      but I expect that the next thousand years will be spectacular. And
      I don't know about you, but I certainly intend to be around to
      witness it!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He jumped off the Head Table as applause broke out. The Deputy
      Headmistress beamed at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was a very inspiring speech, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor. I am not sure it will be enough, though.
      It takes a while to change your mind about something as fundamental
      as this. Children <em class="calibre8">do</em> tend to be more open to new ideas,
      but it will need time. I planted the seeds, but –" he shrugged
      helplessly. "I don't suppose you have invented time machines, have
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gave him a strange sideways look, and then the sounds of the
      Great Hall seemed to be muted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None that will let you go back for more than a few hours, no,"
      she answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait. You <em class="calibre8">actually</em> have time machines?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes... But please realize knowledge of their existence is
      restricted – I depend on your secrecy. This is how we're currently
      averting the worst of today's disaster, by sending your son and his
      friends back as often as the laws of time permit, to stretch the
      crucial fifteen minutes as far as they will go. In fact, your son
      had a Time-Turner from the start of the year. It's how we've been
      dealing with his sleep disorder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You gave <em class="calibre8">Harry</em> a <em class="calibre8">time machine</em> to treat his
      <em class="calibre8">sleep disorder</em>?" He <em class="calibre8">just</em> managed to keep his
      voice down, but he did not bother trying to keep the horror out.
      There were just so many flaws with this plan that it was a miracle
      wizards had not yet destroyed the world, although he wasn't
      excluding the possibility for the next ten years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall's shoulders slumped and something almost
      like a groan escaped her. "Not again."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:18am, Linfen, China)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The problem with the True Patronus Charm, Harry realized, was
      that it required a certain mental state that was <em class="calibre8">rather
      hard</em> to maintain if you were were being confronted with the
      consequences of your failure, over and over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because this <em class="calibre8">was</em> his fault. Of course it was. That was
      the whole <em class="calibre8">point</em> of heroic responsibility, that
      <em class="calibre8">everything</em> was your fault. And especially this, because he
      was pretty sure that the situation had been set up for his
      sake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had known that something like this might be coming. He had
      refused to cooperate with Quirrell's plans to become hailed as a
      savior, and so Quirrell had given him no choice. All these people
      were killed for <em class="calibre8">him</em>. And as Harry looked out over what
      amounted to a battlefield, he had trouble imagining the earth among
      the stars and mankind traveling from galaxy to galaxy. Whatever he
      might do with the rest of his life, the people lying dead here
      would not be part of that future. It was Hermione's explanation,
      the <em class="calibre8">will to protect</em> the survivors, that drove his Patronus
      forward now, weak and wavering at first, but enough to stop further
      destruction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This isn't right,</em> he thought, as he poured everything
      he still had into the spell. <em class="calibre8">Everyone should live forever.
      These people had no less right to live than the others.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But perhaps he could still save them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronus brightened to a small sun as he realized the
      obvious. He had rejected Death as the natural state of affairs, had
      decided to heal the wound in the world. But that would not be
      enough. Even if he could heal aging and stop disease, there would
      still sometimes be accidents; even if he could back everyone up
      somehow so they could be recovered after death, it would not bring
      back all those billions of people who had died before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter, stop!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He dropped his wand. He couldn't stop the spell, not when the
      thought was exploding from him like a supernova, but this he could
      still do. The light disappeared, but the feeling remained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">There is no reason to accept death. Not while there is magic
      in the world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">All those people in front of him might yet be saved. The
      demented still had intact brains, all their memories and
      personality might still be there somehow. No one had ever figured
      out a way to reverse the Dementor's Kiss, but no one had known how
      to destroy Dementors either. Perhaps it was well within the realm
      of science to bring them back already, and otherwise magic might do
      it in the future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And as for the others... There were time machines, weren't
      there? Sure, they could only go back for six hours, but if time
      travel was possible in the universe, then why not go further? If
      they could truly figure out how time worked, why should they not be
      able to make read-only time machines that could go back six billion
      years, and allow them to make a backup of every sentient being that
      ever lived? And if that took another thousand years to accomplish,
      then so be it; no one would ever <em class="calibre8">truly</em> die in that
      time...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How had he ever been so unambitious as to desire an end to death
      only for the people of the present and future?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you okay?" Barnok asked. Harry nodded, and bowed down to
      pick up his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had vowed to wipe Dementors from the earth. He had vowed to
      bring an end to death. And now, as the Ethiopian wizard took his
      arm and teleported him back to the Ministry, he made a new vow. A
      world without death meant a world where no one had ever permanently
      left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next few groups of Dementors were a lot easier to
      vanquish.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:20am, Lodz, Poland)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma stared around at the result of another bloodbath, her face
      hard. The Dementor had caused huge traffic accidents in between its
      other... activities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This felt a lot better in the first five minutes,</em> she
      thought, disgruntled. But there were just ten minutes to go, and
      then she'd get to live those wonderful five minutes all over
      again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:21am, Hogwarts)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm right by your side, son. Don't be afraid.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco pictured the scene in his mind and called up all the
      feelings of the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Expecto Patronum.</em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing. Just an ever-growing certainty that this wasn't going
      to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After trying to cast the Patronus Charm over and over, he had
      started to notice it: the little moment of distraction right before
      the final brandish. The phrase <em class="calibre8">DEMENTORS ARE A PHYSICAL
      EMBODIMENT OF DEATH</em> hadn't seemed so important at first,
      compared to the <em class="calibre8">PREPARE TO DIE</em> parts, but when casting the
      spell now, it was like his mind was inevitably drawn back to it.
      And in that final moment, the spell felt wrong, somehow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It <em class="calibre8">didn't make any sense</em>! Why should some tidbit of
      knowledge that didn't even really seem to fit ruin the spell? And
      yet, what seemed to be a stupid claim at first felt simply
      <em class="calibre8">true</em> while casting the Patronus Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed and gave up. Apparently, if he was going to do
      this, it would have to be in Potter's way. He'd been trying that
      for almost twenty minutes already, but it also didn't seem to be
      going anywhere. Still, he probably had a better chance of pulling
      it off than anyone else here.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 10:50am, Dalton Magical Malady Center)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy, Lesath, opened his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where am I?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hospital," Sally answered simply. "You lost control in the
      arena, and I didn't notice in time. I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat up, eyes wide. "What time is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's ten to eleven. You were unconscious for about three
      hours," she explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... I can still go back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Healers say you need rest..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want rest, I want to destroy Dementors! Look, I'm
      fine!" He pushed the blankets away as if to prove it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She considered him. It <em class="calibre8">would</em> be in the world's interest
      if he fought. She didn't want him to die, but if he wanted to risk
      it, that was <em class="calibre8">his choice</em>. She'd learned to respect people's
      choices, in her twenty-five years with a phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," she decided. "We'll go back in ten minutes, when
      your old self isn't going to be in the DMLE anymore." And she would
      make very sure to add a note to the presence roster, whenever he
      was the only one there, that he was only to receive <em class="calibre8">small</em>
      assignments. She'd almost gotten him killed once, and she wasn't
      about to repeat the experience.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:29am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 2)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath and Sally were the last of them to appear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, we're all still alive then," Hermione concluded. She
      sounded weary, but then, they all were. One hour of constantly
      watching strangers die had dampened their spirits somewhat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the others all winced, presumably because the voice sounded
      in their heads again. Harry didn't hear it, like he hadn't heard it
      the first time. Professor Quirrell's magic could not interact with
      his own, and so it seemed that he had been excluded from receiving
      the unblockable mental message.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A single photograph with a note fluttered down. Barnok grabbed
      it and passed it around to the other phoenix owners.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Northern America," Sally explained. "The camp where they send
      all the Dementors they catch, along with criminals to execute. I
      know the place. There's a good thousand of the creatures there,
      along with over a hundred guards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With four bursts of flame, they went, to save at least the
      guards before their captives could strike. They had five to ten
      glorious minutes to go.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:57am, Cairo, Egypt)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Innervate</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma looked up into the eyes of the kind middle-aged witch. She
      was feeling drained. The phoenix was singing and the song was
      healing, but it just wasn't enough to cure the mental exhaustion,
      or to make her forget all that she'd seen today. She was tired, and
      she'd just lost control over her Patronus and had to be knocked
      out. She didn't want to go on, but she had to; the world needed
      her, there were still over four hours to go to save as many people
      as possible. This was Parvati's job, damn it, <em class="calibre8">she</em>'d chosen
      Gryffindor, not Padma, but <em class="calibre8">she</em> couldn't destroy
      Dementors...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you okay?" the woman asked gently. Padma nodded. She'd have
      to be.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:03am, Sydney, Australia)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore burned into existence in a poor part of Sydney,
      where another group of Dementors had wreaked havoc. The warning had
      come too late here for the children to avoid the damage. The street
      was silent, even as the dead lay among the wrecks of cars and the
      empty bodies of the soulless. The sudden blast of Dementor-induced
      fear, or perhaps the presence of soulless humans walking onto the
      streets, had evidently distracted drivers. None were left alive; if
      anybody had been only wounded, the Dementors had taken care of
      them, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a sweep of his wand and a curse of dread power, bolts of
      yellow light spread out and struck the victims of the Kiss in the
      heart. They fell without struggle, without even a quivering in the
      air, as there was nothing left to pass on. In death, they seemed
      peaceful. It was the only grace he could still give them, that
      their loved ones would not witness their true fate. Scant comfort
      though it was, their bodies would be at peace, at least, even as
      their souls had been consumed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tears did not come easily to the old man anymore. Life had
      forced him to become hard. But his stomach still wrenched together,
      and his throat caught, at the terrible, senseless loss. He had seen
      the consequences of atomic bombs, but this was <em class="calibre8">worse</em>, for
      the people who died in that war had only lost their lives...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Why do such evil?</em> He had never understood, until Harry
      had unwittingly explained it. To Voldemort, as to Harry,
      <em class="calibre8">every</em> death was like a Dementor's Kiss. To be accustomed
      to the idea of thousands of people losing their soul every single
      day... Indifference towards other people's lives would be a
      sensible barrier. Albus could understand turning evil if the
      universe seemed so bleak, and he respected Harry Potter for not
      giving in to such feelings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes cried out and flew ahead, and Albus Dumbledore followed.
      Further along the Dementors' path, people were still alive to be
      fought for. And no matter how much he himself was hurting, while
      there were still people who needed him he would go on. For that,
      too, was what it meant to accept a phoenix.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:07am, Charlerois, Belgium)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronus spell made it a lot harder, Hermione thought, to
      stomach the loss of thousands of human lives. Every death was a
      tragedy, but it hit just that much harder when you were constantly
      reminding yourself of the value of life, and realizing that a
      victory over death might be in reach within the next hundred
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She went on anyway, of course. She held on to the thought, even
      as every new place she went tore at her heart, because she needed
      to, and because she <em class="calibre8">did</em> believe in it. The lives of the
      survivors were precious above all. And she would be there to
      protect them.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:21am, Mexico City, Mexico)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two of them burned back into existence at what looked like a
      marketplace. Padma didn't even know what continent they were on,
      just that it was dark, and there were demented people walking
      around aimlessly. There were few, but if it was night then it
      seemed likely that many had also been taken in their beds. However
      it was, she and Tamara had come too late; the Dementors had moved
      on, but where to?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt scared, and was starting to despair. What chance did
      they really have to stop all this?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cast, quickly," Tarama hissed to her, a real tone of urgency to
      her voice. Then Padma saw it too, not a hundred feet away, flying
      towards them at speed. Real despair washed over her. They were
      going to die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No,</em> she forced herself to think. <em class="calibre8">You are only
      Death. Humanity can get over you.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was getting harder and harder, to really believe in that
      thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">E-expecto Patronum.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A great silver humanoid completely failed to appear. Padma just
      registered that the spell had felt wrong, as the thing flew
      straight at her, Tamara cursed something in Arabic, grabbed her by
      the arm, and they both disappeared in a burst of flame just before
      the Dementor reached them.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:22am, Hogwarts)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A burst of flame announced the arrival of a phoenix in the Great
      Hall. Minerva was already on her feet when she recognized the Patil
      girl, who was gently being pushed down onto Professor Trelawney's
      chair by an unknown woman. Padma was crying, she saw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She poured a mug of tea and pushed it into the girl's hand.
      "Drink," she ordered, even as she rang the little bell to order
      chocolate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma obeyed, silent tears rolling over her face. "I'm sorry,"
      she burbled in between gulps. "I'm sorry, I'm sorry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What has this poor child been going through?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have no need to be, Miss Patil," she said sternly. Whatever
      had happened, the girl should not blame herself for failing to live
      up to the insane pressure put upon her. "You are already doing so
      much more than anyone has any right to expect of you. How many
      Dementors have you been exposed to today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hundreds," the foreign witch who accompanied the girl said, as
      she stepped back towards the table and put her mirror away. She was
      not looking that well either, Minerva thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have warned Madam Bones," the woman told Padma in a heavy
      accent. "She will send someone else there. Don't <em class="calibre8">worry</em>,
      everything will be fine. But I think you need to rest for a
      while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva nodded in agreement and shoved the chocolate pudding
      which had appeared on the table towards the two. "I quite agree.
      Now eat a little. I think the both of you should."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She went back to the students in the hall, correcting gestures
      and stature as they tried to cast the True Patronus Charm. None of
      them had managed it yet, despite the Muggle man's inspirational
      lecture. Professor Verres and now Petunia, Lily's sister, were
      mingling with the students, answering questions and (in the
      Professor's case) giving encouragement. It might all be futile, but
      if even one more person learned in the next few hours, it could
      take a lot of pressure off the others, and would certainly help
      save lives. Not that she really wanted to put another student
      through all that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She glanced back at her star-student Padma Patil, who was
      quietly picking at her pudding with a tear-stained face. It broke
      her heart to see the child like this. How many deaths had she
      witnessed today? And would she ever be the same again? Some hurts
      could not be healed, even with memory charms...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:33am, Hogwarts)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Death is just the next great adventure," some third-year
      Hufflepuff girl was saying. "Honestly, all this talk about
      defeating death seems rather dark to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Muggle man reached under his chair and slowly,
      <em class="calibre8">carefully</em>, drew forth a gleaming knife. The girl's eyes
      widened in shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of the seventh-years made this for me," the man clarified.
      "Since you don't see any problem with death, I assume you won't
      mind if I stab you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco quietly smirked at the girl's spluttering and walked away.
      The Muggle had interesting ways of making his point, but Draco
      didn't think he was going to teach him more than Harry already had.
      Not that Potter had ever tried to teach him this skill...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or had he? Potter <em class="calibre8">had</em> told him the fundamental idea,
      tried to get him to agree, even made him swear a vow. <em class="calibre8">No one
      should have to die if they don't want to.</em> That was the
      underlying thought of the new Patronus spell. Had it been Potter's
      intention all along to guide him so that he could eventually learn
      this spell? Was that what he'd done to Padma Patil? He didn't think
      they'd been close, but the whispers in the Hall were saying that
      she'd been out there, destroying Dementors, alongside Potter and
      Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stole a glance at his second-in-command, who was sitting at
      the Head Table looking desolate. Whatever she'd been doing had been
      incredibly hard on her. Did he really want to put himself in that
      situation?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, that was wrong. Having an additional skill – and one that
      seemed highly desirable at the moment – could only be a good thing.
      Patil may have overstretched herself, but he was a Malfoy; he would
      not be forced to put himself at risk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He put his hands and feet in the position Potter had taught him,
      and called up the memory once more, readying himself for the True
      Patronus Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's what I want you to say. Not who was right or who was
      wrong. Just that it was sad when your mother died, and sad when my
      mother died, and that it would be sad if Hermione Granger died.
      Every life is precious. Can we at least agree on that?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But there are other lives that are still alive to be fought
      for. Your life, and my life, and Hermione Granger's life, all the
      lives of Earth, and all the lives beyond, to be defended and
      protected</em> <em class="calibre8">–</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held the thought in his mind, held on to the idea that every
      life was precious, Harry's mother's as much as his own mother's;
      held on to the oath he had made.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expecto <em class="calibre8">Patronum!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it still felt hollow.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:40am, a hotel in Aberdeen)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus Snape zapped through the various TV networks to watch
      the news. The Ministry would tell Albus what they believed was
      going on in the Muggle world, of course, but the Ministry tended to
      use sources like Arthur Weasley, who didn't understand as much
      about Muggles as he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every single channel seemed to have news about the Dementor
      attacks. There was speculation about the strange message. There
      were hand-made videos of people trembling and then their eyes
      glazing over, the sign of a Kiss. Someone had even managed to catch
      the Patronus and one of the children on tape; Lesath, he thought.
      There were also amateur videos of witches and wizards killing the
      soulless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The commentary was baffled, scared, and very, <em class="calibre8">very</em>
      angry. On various channels, people were speaking of a war. The
      Muggles didn't know exactly what was going on, but they knew that
      they were being wronged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On one channel, the prime minister of Japan was giving an
      emergency press address. Did he know about wizardry? Most
      governments gave updates to the Muggle leadership. The Potions
      Master could not understand Japanese, but he got the impression
      from the responses that the man was telling the people things they
      did not already know. And if he wouldn't, the current Prime
      Minister of the UK was sure to speak up soon; he had been on the
      brink of revealing them after the attack on that school last week,
      which was not unreasonable given the atrocious way the Ministry of
      Magic had dealt with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The International Statute of Secrecy was at an end. There was no
      way they could ever Obliviate <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> of the day's
      events. Even if they could, it would be next to impossible to trace
      down all the video material.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grimly, he zapped to the next channel only to see an amateur
      video of a magical explosion in the London Underground.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 9:01am, Hogwarts)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma sipped her second cup of tea guiltily. She should probably
      go back, even if she <em class="calibre8">did</em> get a sick feeling in her stomach
      at the thought of fighting again, but Tamara had recommended a full
      hour rest, and she hadn't really felt strongly enough to argue
      that. Destroying Dementors had felt good at first, but now she just
      kept seeing the dead, empty stares of the victims. Would she even
      be able to do it anymore? She had already failed once... did she
      still believe that they could make the world a wonderful place?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Around her, shouts of <em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum</em> filled the air.
      Many students were gathered around the Great Hall, trying the new
      version of the Patronus C, to little success. They might well have
      the will and the mental strength – many of them had been able to
      cast the normal Patronus Charm, after all – but they probably
      couldn't think in the right way, <em class="calibre8">they</em> didn't have Harry's
      training.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A burst of silver light blasted into the room. Heads swiveled.
      Tamara's wand shot into her hand, but the light was already
      dimming. And there, next to a bright human figure, stood Cedrid
      Diggory, a broad smile on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tamara jumped up. "Half an hour to brief him," she whispered to
      Padma, then strode off towards Cedric. Without a word of
      explanation, she grabbed his arm and disappeared with the
      fifth-year boy in another burst of fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Another person to fight,</em> Padma registered. If Cedric
      started in half an hour, he could destroy Dementors for four full
      hours. Which meant that, even if she gave up now, there would be
      someone going on in her place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was really the thing, she realized, as she took another
      sip of tea, and felt a warm feeling spread through her body.
      Whatever happened, someone would carry on. Maybe individual humans
      could not defeat death – billions had died in the past, far more
      than the lives which had been lost today – but <em class="calibre8">humanity</em>
      would go on. She would not have expected Cedric Diggory to manage
      this spell, but perhaps it made sense. The "Super-Hufflepuff" had
      the talents of multiple houses, but was a Hufflepuff because he
      excelled above all at the qualities of his house: dedication and
      loyalty. If anyone could internalize the power of working together
      to achieve the seemingly impossible, it would be him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt good, faith returning to her mind and strength to her
      body. Today, they would wipe Dementors from the face of the earth,
      if all went well. In the next hundred years, she was sure that they
      would end war and famine. And one day, they would even defeat
      Death. How could she have forgotten that it wasn't about her, that
      she was just a small part of a much bigger whole?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her wand felt comfortable in her hand. She would be able to cast
      the spell again, she knew. So when Tamara returned to take her back
      to the Ministry, she was ready.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:30am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 3)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cedric!" Harry yelled enthusiastically. The fifth-year boy just
      grinned at the other four children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your father got me to understand. He is a great lecturer, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Four notes fluttered down, and the phoenix-owners snatched.
      Sally's required two people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll go with Cedric," Harry offered. Sally and Barnok swapped
      notes, and the five groups went to their assignments again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:52am, Tehran, Iran.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The light burst forth again from Harry's wand, as he mentally
      promised the dead and demented that he would bring them back.
      <em class="calibre8">No matter what,</em> he promised, as he sensed the two
      Dementors be ripped apart, <em class="calibre8">I will dedicate my life to finding a
      solution.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small part of him wondered, not for the first time, whether he
      was just willfully deluding himself. But he shut that part of
      himself up, hard. This was not the time for self-doubt. The people
      needed him.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 7:29am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 4)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were seven! Two Gryffindor boys and a Slytherin girl had
      joined them. Lesath wasn't there yet, but maybe he would come only
      on the instant of the announcement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Timothy!" Cedric was greeting. A lot of the enthusiasm had
      gone out of the boy in the hour since they last saw him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Ced," one of the two Gryffindors said tiredly. "The three
      of us are only here for one turn more. We've been at it for half an
      hour already, we used all spins of the Time-Turner to make it this
      far."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The first minutes are better," Padma reassured them, although
      she didn't look very excited either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice resounded in their heads, and the assignments
      appeared.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:24am, Untergurgl, Austria)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma and Tamara hung together on the tail of the phoenix,
      trying to trace down the Dementor by going in the direction where
      the fear was the strongest, ignoring the scattered bodies lying on
      the ground below them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had got the assignment the instant they returned to the
      DMLE, so it might have been queued for a minute or so, and the
      Dementor had already left the place they were sent. They
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> to find the creature now, for if they went back and
      let Aurors pinpoint it, they might find it in the 8:29 minute when
      there was no one in the crisis rooms anymore.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:29am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 5)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Time," Barnok said. He and Harry popped to crisis room 6, he
      threw the chain of the Time-Turner over Harry's neck, grabbed his
      phoenix firmly to transport the creature along, and planted his
      hand on the first unopened box in the line of boxes placed at the
      far end of the room. The lid sprung open, revealing a paper saying
      "<em class="calibre8">No</em>".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only to be expected, sometimes. If Harry went back, then
      he might end up getting an assignment that his earlier self had
      already done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Barnok just grabbed the paper and burned with Harry to the 7th,
      and last, room.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:29am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 7)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Room 6, box 2," Barnok told the waiting Auror. The woman would
      go back in time when all was over and place the NO-notes into the
      boxes that should have them. A new paper was already fluttering
      down to send Harry to his next assignment.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:30am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 7)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione appeared just in time to see Harry disappear. Her heart
      leaped: Cedric was the only other Patronus-caster she had seen in
      the sixth room, and she'd been really worried about the others.
      She'd known that Padma wouldn't make it, because the girl had told
      her about her one-hour break during a brief lull in the fourth
      room, but Harry? And Lesath?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She just saw the bursts of flame of others arriving – Lesath and
      Cedric – before she was sent off to Japan again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 8:51am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 7)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were all there, that much Padma had established. All eight
      of them: Padma, Harry, Hermione, Lesath, Cedric Diggory, Timothy
      and Patrick Brandon, and the Slytherin girl introduced to her as
      Rianne Felthorne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all looked really, <em class="calibre8">really</em> tired. There was a table
      piled with food here, and some comfortable sofas in case it got too
      much for a while, but taking a break didn't really feel like an
      option when you knew that every second you wasted another person
      might die. All the places where Dementors were <em class="calibre8">expected</em>
      had been checked in the first forty minutes, so what remained now
      were the Dementors which had evaded detection before. Usually
      single Dementors, living in out-of-the-way places. And since it had
      taken more than an hour to hear about them, most of them had caused
      <em class="calibre8">significant</em> damage before the children were sent to
      destroy them, even if they had needed a while to travel to some
      part of civilization.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She still took some time to eat half a bar of chocolate. More
      people would survive if she lived to help them than if she let the
      Dementors overcome her, after all.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(April 20th 1992, 11:26am, DMLE Dementor-crisis room 7)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were sitting around the dinner table in a subdued mien.
      Yes, they had saved billions of lives today. But it didn't feel all
      that great.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The reports had steadily trickled down, and nothing new had come
      in in the last half hour. Aurors, Ministry officials and legions of
      volunteers all over the world had been recruited to search for
      traces of Dementors or wounded people for the rest of the day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They didn't know the exact death count yet, but it was in the
      six or seven figures. Hundreds of thousands of lives lost, in the
      few hours since breakfast time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You killed them?" The voice should have sounded indignant, but
      it just seemed hollow. None of them had much capacity for emotion
      left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," the old wizard sighed. "We destroyed the empty hulls of
      their bodies. Primarily in the hope of saving the Statute of
      Secrecy, but also because it is kinder to their friends and
      relatives, this way. We've probably missed a fair few who have
      wandered off before we could reach them, but –" he shrugged
      helplessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should not have done that. What if they could have been
      saved still?" Harry asked. Hermione thought he didn't sound like he
      believed it himself. Just another ten thousand victims or so who
      might have been saved some other way. "And don't tell me no one
      ever figured out how to do that. No one ever destroyed Dementors
      before either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence, at that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You yourself have named the Dementors as Death, Harry," the old
      wizard wearily pointed out. "Would their Kiss have any lesser
      effect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is little to lose by <em class="calibre8">trying</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is everything to lose. You underestimate the emotional
      impact on the survivors of not finding the corpse of their beloved
      ones. Besides this, the ancient texts speak dark words of the
      Dementor's Kiss. Perhaps these were based on guesswork, perhaps
      not, but if we assume that these elders knew something we did not,
      then it seems beyond a doubt that the Kiss is worse than death, for
      all the pre-Merlin sources agree on that one point. If this is not
      because they destroy souls, then it might be for one of the other
      reasons suggested by the scholars who tried to translate the
      now-lost Atlantean texts on the subject. Would you also object to
      destroying the bodies if the people are still <em class="calibre8">there</em>,
      unable to control their bodies, with all their hopes and happiness
      drained away permanently? What if they lost their ability to think,
      but not to feel? For <em class="calibre8">those</em>, too, are not uncommon
      explanations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Harry said. "I guess I see the point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't press further, which was unusual for him. But he too
      needed some rest, like all of them did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They ate further in silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I almost gave up," Padma confessed into the silence. "I lost
      faith that we could do it, and I almost stopped wanting to go back
      and fight. I don't think I'm really cut out to be a heroine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Dumbledore gave her shoulder a squeeze. "I understand
      well how you felt. When you have been exhausted for many hours,
      when pain and death is no longer a passing fear but a certainty,
      then it is harder to be a hero, Padma Patil. And yet you
      <em class="calibre8">did</em> continue. Do not sell yourself short."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it always like this?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not always," the ancient hero said gently. "There are many
      good days among the bad. When you see the smile of a child. When
      you know you have saved someone who would otherwise have suffered
      or died. That's what makes everything worthwhile."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will have beds made for you all," Madam Bones offered. "You
      cannot go back to Hogwarts yet, especially since some of you are
      still there, learning the True Patronus Charm. If we receive new
      reports, we'll wake one of you up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still have one Time-Turner spin remaining," Harry
      offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Bones considered this. "That might be useful, although it
      may be best to keep your last turn in reserve for emergencies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want to sleep right now..." Rianne said thickly. "I
      don't really want to live through all that again in my
      nightmares."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll be given potions for four hours of dreamless sleep.
      After that, we'll send you back to Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The children climbed into the beds they were offered, even as
      Professor Dumbledore and Madam Bones exchanged looks with each
      other. The children had stretched themselves beyond belief and
      deserved some rest. It was probably better not to burden them with
      the more worrying implications of the day's events for now.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">-o-o-o-o-o-</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> some answers to questions that
      might come up, so I won't have to do it in future notes...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Q</em>: isn't this a rather enormous risk for Quirrell to
      take?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A</em>: don't forget that, as mentioned in the last chapter,
      a Time-Turner was involved. Quirrell had access to information from
      two hours in the future before executing his plan. One might
      imagine that he, or the person who was sending a message back in
      time for him, tested certain victory-conditions (such as Harry's
      and his own survival) before committing to the plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Q</em>: okay, so Quirrell apparently used a Time-Turner to
      guarantee success (or at least lack of Harry-killing ;)) before
      sending his message. What happened to people in places like Azkaban
      which are warded against Time-loops?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A</em>: Azkaban cannot interact with its own future, and
      therefore nobody inside has heard the message. Unfortunately,
      everyone who has heard the message has also interacted with
      Azkaban's future, and as that's definitely going to affect what
      they'll communicate, they cannot interact with Azkaban either. This
      means that for instance Amelia Bones has no way of contacting them
      until 9:28, which is rather inconvenient as the Aurors there are
      still able to cast a Patronus. The Aurors probably realize that
      something is wrong, as all their communication with the outside
      world has stopped, but they cannot find out what without leaving
      (and if they do, they cannot come back). So yes, some people remain
      who can cast a normal Patronus, but with the entire rest of the
      world knowing the secret, it's going to be hard for them to remain
      ignorant for very long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(None of this is in the text, because it really isn't all that
      important; the protagonists don't even think about it, except
      Amelia and Albus who merely find that it doesn't help them.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Q</em>: the initial plan called for everyone who learned the
      True Patronus Charm afterwards to drop back in time to 7:30 and go
      to the second room. Why did Cedric go to the third room on his
      first time?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A</em>: due to a miscommunication about fallback places,
      Tamara had taken Padma to the Great Hall in her second iteration.
      Thus, her second instance had already interacted with Cedric, which
      meant that, to avoid paradox, it was better for him not to directly
      interact with her past. This is why he went to one room further
      (which still allowed him the full four iterations his Time-Turner
      could give him).</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Q</em>: why are there students of all houses casting a True
      Patronus Charm?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A</em>: because I envision the TPC as a spell that really
      uses the strengths of all four houses:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* [Slytherin] you need a lot of ambition to fully intend to
      reshape the world, cast down places like Azkaban and even overcome
      death</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* [Ravenclaw] you need the perception to recognize the flaws in
      the world and the intellectual honesty to not lie to yourself about
      them, while also being able to envision a plan for fixing those
      flaws</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* [Gryffindor] you need to have strong will to protect others,
      and courage to take on all the nasty pieces of darkness in the
      world, giving your life if necessary towards building a better
      one</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* [Hufflepuff] you need to have the dedication to spend your
      life making that dream a reality, and the friendship and faith in
      your peers to know that others will carry on even if you fail</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, who invented this form of the spell, has talents spread
      across all houses. The others might lean more towards two or three
      in particular, so they focus on a specific aspect of the happy
      thought.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
