<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 105: The Philosopher's Stone, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s25" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 105: The Philosopher's Stone</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It's all my fault.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Not</em> all, Slytherin corrected. <em class="calibre8">I daresay there are
      some other people who can claim a share of the blame.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This is</em> my <em class="calibre8">war, these are</em> my <em class="calibre8">friends. I
      should have protected them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We will,</em> Gryffindor promised. <em class="calibre8">We will find a way to
      bring them back.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Even if that is true, it may well take centuries. They will
      not understand the world they live in, or even know their friends
      or families anymore. Whatever else may happen, I have failed
      today.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why hadn't he thought about tear gas and smoke bombs in time? He
      of all people should have realized the possibility! Why hadn't he
      stopped Professor McGonagall before she did something so utterly
      <em class="calibre8">Gryffindor</em> as leaving the wards? Why had he allowed his
      parents to stay, rather than forcefully evacuating them? Why hadn't
      he sent for Dumbledore immediately when the attackers came, or at
      least when Hermione wasn't returning? And why oh why had he not
      insisted that they all go abroad, Apparition-possibilities or not,
      over staying inside hostile territory?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a burst of flame, another wizard appeared. Harry pushed his
      grief and self-reproof away. He needed his composure for this
      confrontation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have taken him to Australia," Dumbledore answered his
      questioning look. "I will not say where, not out loud. I have
      arranged a new identity for him and your mother, and enough money
      for a single man to live in hiding for several months. I have also
      brought her body back to a normal temperature, since leaving her as
      she was would arouse suspicion. Instead, I have placed her under an
      anti-decomposition charm at your father's insistence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will that not stop her from being revitalized?" Harry queried
      with a frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster shook his head. "In the highly unlikely event
      that doctors could help her, I do not believe the charm would make
      any difference. This is an advanced spell for certain magical
      experiments, developed by a friend of mine. It can be used on
      living creatures without issue; it merely remains inactive, and
      wears off after a few minutes, if it covers someone with an active
      heartbeat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Harry said quietly. "And now, will you explain
      what's been going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am afraid that the night's events are not yet fully clear,
      although I hope that in time, they shall be. Nevertheless, there
      are some things I would discuss with you. Come with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a flash of fire, the two of them arrived in a small stone
      room, with a handsome wooden desk and a comfortable chair behind
      it. The floor was cluttered with stuff, piled high. With a wave of
      Dumbledore's wand, a second chair appeared, but Harry did not sit
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Chief Warlock's Chambers. These rooms are so well-protected
      that there is little chance that they will be penetrated by
      Muggles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was almost speechless with indignation. "You shouldn't
      leave the forest! What if there's another attack while you're
      gone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am there right now, Harry. We have nearly fifty minutes
      before the younger me goes back in time to send your father to
      safety, arrange international assistance, and bring you here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh. Right.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, then." His eyes turned cold. "Will you tell me where
      you were, when the children in <em class="calibre8">your care</em> needed to be
      evacuated? How could you dump all that on Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione Granger was entirely capable of saving both children
      and staff." His eyes gleamed darkly, his voice was hard. "It is not
      my duty to patronize other heroes. I will protect those who need
      it, but I knew that my help was not required there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the clutter. There were many things there he
      recognized from previous visits to the Headmaster's office.
      Portraits. A Pensieve. The sorting hat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Those who need it</em>?" He almost yelled it. "You left the
      children alone to save <em class="calibre8">things</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My first stop were the kitchens, in fact." The Headmaster sat
      down. "The House Elves are as much my responsibility as the
      children, and they are incapable of leaving the castle without
      being commanded to do so. Having sent them away, I went back in
      time two hours to make my preparations. I disabled all the wards
      that would warn me of student injury or death. I set up new wards
      that would inform me of the location and time of any impact around
      Hogwarts and Hogsmeade. I warned Amelia to do the same for other
      locations, as Hogwarts might not have been the only target
      <em class="calibre8">–</em> which, as it turns out, it wasn't. Then, as I knew that
      at least an atomic bomb could destroy the wards along with all the
      protections wired into them, I went to recover the one thing which
      should <em class="calibre8">never</em> fall into Voldemort's hands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The dark wizard attractant that you were keeping as a lure to
      You-Know-Who?" Harry couldn't quite keep the bitterness out of his
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. After that, I had a little time remaining, which I used to
      save all those things entrusted to my care which would be
      irreplaceable if lost. Your cloak, for instance." He grabbed
      something from behind the desk and handed it to Harry. "You might
      as well keep it with you now. Everyone who believes you had it will
      think it was destroyed along with the school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tone of voice put Harry's hairs on end. "What exactly
      happened to the school?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard just shook his head sadly. "As I had feared, they
      indeed used atomic bombs. All that is left of the castle are
      smoking ruins now. And with today's magic, we will never be able to
      rebuild it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something in Harry's heart ached. He thought he'd been numb with
      the pain of the many deaths of the night, and it was only a castle,
      not a human, but the loss still filled him with a deep sadness for
      something precious lost, a part of the world permanently gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But..." he protested. "If you had already gone back in time and
      made preparations, couldn't you <em class="calibre8">stop</em> <em class="calibre8">–</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." The Headmaster looked very grave. "I tried, of course. I
      do not know much about machine-driven missiles, but I managed to
      detect an incoming object approaching Hogsmeade at an extremely
      high speed, and, with the help of a reflex-improving charm,
      succeeded in spiriting it away to a place where it could do little
      harm. Unfortunately, as my wards were quick to inform me, there was
      a second missile, striking not a minute later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed, as he realized the pain the old man must have
      felt the instant he realized his mistake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I noted down the time," the old wizard continued hollowly,
      "gave what instructions and comfort I could to those fools who had
      stayed behind in Hogsmeade, and went back another hour. The impact
      hit the castle directly, probably because it's at the center of the
      warded area. I have experienced the impact of atomic bombs before,
      so I knew that the building could not be saved, no matter what
      protections I placed upon it. Hence I did not waste any time
      attempting it. Instead, I went into the grounds and cast what
      spells I could that might at least save the lake and the forest,
      and thereby the merfolk, centaurs and other creatures who live
      there. I went back only to restore some of Hogwarts's treasures
      which I had no time to take earlier, such as those books in the
      library of which no copy exists. I was in the forest to witness the
      destruction as the second bomb fell on the castle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His eyes were so unspeakably sad that Harry shivered. He had
      only been at Hogwarts for less than a year, and he felt the grief.
      To Professor Dumbledore, whose long life had largely been centered
      in Hogwarts <em class="calibre8">–</em> as a student, teacher and finally Headmaster
      <em class="calibre8">–</em> it must be tremendous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why didn't you come to us then?" he asked. There was no
      indignation in his voice anymore, his anger had been dampened by
      the old man's sadness. "Where were you when we were attacked?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had no idea that I might be needed until Cedric Diggory's
      Patronus alerted me to your predicament." He sighed deeply. "As it
      was, I was going between what remained of Hogwarts, the Ministry,
      and several foreign institutions. Most importantly, I've been
      making emergency arrangements for the House Elves and the creatures
      living on our grounds. The Elves will remain at Beauxbatons, for
      the time being. The merfolk and squid will be relocated to a lake
      in Bulgaria before the radiation affects them too much. The forest
      dwellers are a larger problem, however. Without the castle's wards,
      the grounds are no longer protected and Muggles could stray into
      them <em class="calibre8">–</em> and what is worse, dangerous magical creatures can
      go out. The last thing we need is for Hagrid's herd of Acromantulas
      to invade Scotland, although it seems that Hagrid has <em class="calibre8">them</em>
      under control, at least <em class="calibre8">–</em> he sent a gathering signal to
      all of the herd and helped them flee to the edges of the wards, so,
      for now, they are staying by his side. As for the Hippogriffs,
      Thestrals, Blood-Sucking Bugbears, bowtruckles, Cornish pixies and
      other creatures... let us say that a speedy relocation is of the
      utmost importance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see." The centaurs were sentient magical creatures, he knew,
      proud and independent; not equipped with wands, but adept at
      poisons. Muggles, afraid of magic, might well try to exterminate
      the herd. He didn't know much about the merfolk, but from what he
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> heard, they might well be sentient. There were also
      said to be highly intelligent wolves, offspring from two
      transformed werewolves. If you let go of the bias that humans
      should always be the first priority, then the Headmaster's choice
      to save the inhabitants of the forest over helping with the
      evacuation could not be condemned, even without taking into account
      the risks posed by dangerous creatures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em> gone straight to save the centaurs and
      the merfolk. He had gone for this dark item and saved "Hogwarts's
      treasures" first; he hadn't even gone to the forest until
      <em class="calibre8">after</em> he learned that the school would be destroyed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you wait so long?" he asked, anger seeping back in
      his voice. "What if you had found that you couldn't go back in time
      after the impact? What if you failed to stop the first bomb and got
      yourself killed? You prioritized saving books and portraits and a
      <em class="calibre8">Sorting Hat</em> over the forest creatures. Did their lives
      mean so little to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Their lives meant everything." The voice was ice-cold, now.
      "But I could not risk being delayed in the grounds. The chance of
      encountering a contradiction was minimal, as I did everything to
      avoid witnessing any consequences of a possible impact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet you went back for the library books rather than helping
      with the evacuation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was perfectly aware of the time the bomb would hit, and kept
      tabs on the number of people still in the school. I knew of the
      Weasley twins' map, and consequently had every reason to believe
      that Hermione Granger would not return once everyone was out. As
      such, I <em class="calibre8">knew</em> as a matter of <em class="calibre8">fact</em> that there was
      no need for my help. Now, will you sit down? And perhaps stop
      trying to relieve your own feelings by blaming me, so we can have a
      civil discussion instead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. Then he sat down. "Fine. So what's the current
      status, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard shrugged helplessly. "I know but a little.
      Nuclear bombs have fallen on Hogwarts and the British dragon
      resort, along with normal bombs on the national Quidditch league's
      competition stadium<em class="calibre8">.</em> All military facilities and army
      depots in the country have been opened up, and powerful weapons are
      freely handed out to civilians. Squib soldiers have managed to
      enter several places which are open to Squibs who know they are
      there, such as Platform Nine and Three Quarters and the Leaky
      Cauldron. They have managed to penetrate the wards into Diagon
      Alley and the magical street in Glasgow, but have retreated since.
      Other large magical areas, such as the Ministry and St Mungo's,
      have not been attacked, but nearby Muggle buildings are being
      evacuated, which signals a strong intention to change that
      situation in the future. On the positive side, the timely warning
      allowed most witches, wizards and dragons to reach safety before
      any harm was done. Only the Hogwarts delegation was attacked
      afterwards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded thoughtfully. He'd known most of this already, but
      Professor McGonagall hadn't mentioned the stadium. "Was the
      Quidditch stadium destroyed? Or are ordinary wards good enough to
      hold out against non-atomic bombs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The bomb took down the wards, but was sufficiently weakened
      that the stadium is only partially destroyed. I suspect they
      refrained from nuclear weaponry there either to test the effects of
      less destructive weaponry, or simply because the place was closer
      to inhabited areas than Hogwarts. That, or the people responsible
      for this have a greater personal stake in not offending the people
      of Wales than of Scotland."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad said it probably wasn't the government who did it," Harry
      spoke quietly. "He suggested it might have been someone in the
      military."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone not directly accountable to the public," Dumbledore
      nodded. "Or more likely, someone placed under the Imperius Curse,
      although I cannot think why Voldemort would do such a thing. Were
      today's events not exactly what you believed he was trying to
      avoid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not quite. He is trying to avoid nuclear
      <em class="calibre8">annihilation</em>," Harry explained. "A war on wizards, no
      matter how brutal, isn't going to cause that. What happened today
      was... horrible, to say the least, with children dying and an
      irreplaceable historical site just being flattened, and it will
      definitely cause a pretty powerful rage against all things Muggle
      and against nuclear weapons in particular, but wizards aren't going
      to respond by destroying the entire country. We still have to live
      here, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard frowned. "After today, there will certainly be
      some of our kind who would not mind destroying the country and all
      those who live within. But in this, ability is more important than
      will: magic cannot easily achieve such a feat, and those powerful
      enough to wreak the greatest havoc will be the most hesitant to
      perform it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Harry said. "And what about the men who attacked us?
      Have you interrogated them to see how they found us, and why they
      attacked us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alastor is interrogating them at the moment, although the first
      responses seem to indicate that they are merely normal people
      <em class="calibre8">–</em> albeit aggressive and motivated by fear and hate of the
      unknown <em class="calibre8">–</em> who were informed by acquaintances about a
      peculiar disturbance at a particular place in the forest of Dean.
      So far, it seems that the signal originates from a military base,
      which was also the source of many of the weapons, in particular the
      tear gas and gas masks, but it is not clear how <em class="calibre8">they</em> found
      out. A group of Aurors and Unspeakables have gone back in time to
      see whether they can trace the source, for it is absolutely
      essential to understand how those vigilantes came to learn of your
      location. It is <em class="calibre8">possible</em> that an eager Muggle saw Miss
      Granger arriving with the first group of students and notified
      their military, but it is <em class="calibre8">unlikely.</em> The forest is mostly
      void of humans and it would have meant an extraordinary stroke of
      bad luck to draw the attention of a person evil enough to drum up a
      mob after seeing a large number of school children arrive. I
      suspect that this, too, was perpetrated by our old friend
      Voldemort, who carried the news and allowed events to take their
      natural course from there. If we can prove that much, it might
      quell the inevitable bout of fury towards Muggles that will break
      out nationally and internationally when our kind learn of tonight's
      bloodshed. I fear it will not be enough, however, for it is
      undeniable that the Muggles <em class="calibre8">did</em> act of their own
      will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the table. "I can't wrap my mind around him
      doing that," he said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" the old wizard asked. "It seems entirely in line with the
      motives you projected for him, and is a far more obvious
      explanation than anything else I have been able to come up
      with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I realize that," Harry agreed. "But... I could have died.
      Almost did die, in fact, there was this guy who held a gun to my
      head... I was so sure he wanted me to rule the country, why would
      he take that risk?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," the old wizard nodded. "Perhaps I can shed some light on
      that point. Do you not remember what he did on Monday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Euhm," Harry said, searching his mind in confusion, "which part
      of it do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The precaution he took," Dumbledore answered. "Remember that
      after hearing the message, no one could go further back in time
      than four hours. And I have since been informed that a young
      Muggleborn student from Beauxbatons, Marielle Dutant, never
      returned from the Easter Holidays. She had a Time-Turner, so it
      seems all too clear what is going on. He is acting on future
      information." He sighed. "The Time-Turner is locked to her use, of
      course, so I daresay she still lives. I suspect he has a servant
      who will test for specific conditions, and then sends the girl back
      in time with those answers, never knowing whether he executed the
      plan or not. If he merely chooses not to carry through with the
      plan if your continued survival cannot be confirmed, the plan is
      risk-free at least in this regard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Harry said slowly. "So if my mother hadn't been there
      to save my life, the whole attack would never have happened in the
      first place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct, I think," the old wizard nodded sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The solution is simple then,</em> Slytherin suggested with a
      snigger. <em class="calibre8">Next time you find yourself in one of his dangerous
      plots, just get killed. If you make a strong precommitment to do
      so, he can't do anything like this anymore.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I think,</em> Ravenclaw pointed out, <em class="calibre8">that if we do in
      fact find ourselves in such a situation, we are not actually going
      to follow through with that plan, no matter how sensible it would
      be in theory.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there a way to stop him from finding out? Anti-scrying
      spells?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A clever thought," the old wizard answered after a slight
      pause, the hint of a smile on his lips. "I feel the fool for not
      seeing it before. Yes: if you are beyond discovery in the six hours
      following any disaster, it will be impossible to guarantee your
      survival. Such spells <em class="calibre8">do</em> exist, although Voldemort might
      possess magics which I am unaware of, which could penetrate my best
      defenses to at least discover <em class="calibre8">that</em> you live, if not
      <em class="calibre8">where</em>. That being said, there is nothing to lose by
      trying. I will cast my strongest spells on you when we are done
      here, and in addition I would urge you to hide under your cloak for
      six full hours after any disaster that you might have been hurt
      in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will do so," Harry nodded, although the resolution being
      taken, it would most likely never be necessary to <em class="calibre8">actually</em>
      do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With that settled," Dumbledore said after a brief silence.
      "There is something else I would speak to you about. Have you not
      wondered what it is that I went to retrieve tonight?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well yeah," Harry shrugged. "But it seemed obvious that you
      weren't going to tell me, and I figured it might be some dark
      magical object or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard almost smiled. "Not quite, but you were right
      that I was deliberately withholding the information from you. Now,
      however, I believe the time has come to share the secret with you,
      as my objections were mooted yesterday. The item in question is
      something which Voldemort would desire above all, a device of
      ancient lore, which might survive a nuclear explosion, even as the
      wards protecting it would not. Do I have your word not to speak of
      what I am about to tell you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have my word not to speak of it unless there is a
      <em class="calibre8">really good reason</em> to go back on that. I shall be
      responsible with whatever knowledge you give me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose that will have to do." Dumbledore's hand dipped into
      a pocket of his robes, and retrieved a black stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Philosopher's Stone. The only one in existence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's brain ran into a brick wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see that you are speechless. I suppose you have found out
      about this device in your many library sessions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah..." In their attempts to go through the library in
      an alphabetical order and at least make an index, he and Hermione
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> gone through most of the letter A, and therefore had
      found out about alchemy. And you couldn't read more than 10 lines
      about alchemy before running into the central goal of the whole
      thing, the search for the philosopher's stone. Alchemical research
      had led to the invention of medications against magical diseases,
      to the discovery of the Animagus Potion and much more, but
      <em class="calibre8">most</em> alchemists wasted their time trying to create some
      mythical device that supposedly turned base metals into gold and
      produced the Elixir of Life, which indefinitely prolonged the youth
      and health of the user. "I just thought it was obviously
      false."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Professor Dumbledore smiled briefly, although it didn't
      reach his eyes. "I shall mention that to Nicolas Flamel when I next
      visit him. His 665th birthday is next week. Although under the
      circumstances I suspect there will not be a party."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Had he really, <em class="calibre8">actually</em> read about a <em class="calibre8">real,
      existing</em> device to gain <em class="calibre8">immortality</em> and just
      <em class="calibre8">ignored it</em>? Harry's stomach gave a little lurch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it makes no sense," he protested. "Why would <em class="calibre8">one</em>
      device be able to transmute lead to gold <em class="calibre8">and</em> produce an
      elixir that kept someone young? Those things have nothing to do
      with each other besides being desirable! That's why I figured that
      the Philosopher's Stone is supposed to create unlimited gold and
      eternal life, not because there's a single magical discovery that
      <em class="calibre8">actually</em> produces both of those effects, but because
      someone made up a story about a super-device that never
      existed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster just smiled that sad smile again. "Tell me, Mr.
      Potter. What originally made gold so valuable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Euhm... I don't know? It's shiny? And I guess it might also be
      because gold never changes. It's resistant to corrosion, so it
      always <em class="calibre8">keeps</em> its shi– oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed. There is a connection, you see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's tenuous at best! And if someone actually made one of
      those, why aren't whole <em class="calibre8">countries</em> kidnapping him to force
      the secret out of him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it is no secret. The method of creating a Philosopher's
      Stone has been well-known since before the time of Merlin. It's
      just very, very hard to achieve. There is, however, the problem
      that the stone itself might be stolen. Nicolas has managed to keep
      it safe for centuries, but Voldemort poses a real threat,
      especially since we do not know whether Nicolas's wards can keep
      out <em class="calibre8">spirits</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how does it work?" Harry asked. He wasn't about to get
      distracted with irrelevant concerns like Voldemort while there was
      an actual immortality device right in front of him. "Does it heal
      age-related physical issues, like gene loss or accumulated
      waste?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Professor Dumbledore said, surprised. "Magic does that.
      The Elixir or Life, when charged with the right spells, increases
      the drinker's pool of life force."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, thinking. He'd come across the phrase "life
      force" a few times in books, most notably when referring to the
      Patronus Charm, but he had taken it to mean something like physical
      energy, which matched his exhaustion after letting the True
      Patronus Charm go out of control. This didn't sound quite like it,
      though. "Can you elaborate on that, please?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man smiled wryly. "A Ravenclaw as always, I see. Well
      then, as there is little time for a beginner's course in Healing,
      let me explain it with a parallel. You know, of course, how getting
      tired works. You can only expend so much energy at once before your
      body rebels and needs rest, but after having rested, you are as
      strong as before. There is a clear limit to your energy: no matter
      how much you rest, you will not be able to sprint for half an hour
      on end, although by training your body you can push this limit
      upwards significantly. Regardless of that training, however, your
      limit is also subject to natural change with age. Your energy
      <em class="calibre8">–</em> physical strength <em class="calibre8">–</em> grows stronger at first and
      weaker after a certain age. So let us say that there is a
      <em class="calibre8">pool</em>, your physical energy, whose shape alters as you age
      following a standard pattern. You can tap the pool for activities,
      and its emptiness affects you, but it will simply replenish itself
      afterwards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded slowly. This was a very mystical way to speak about
      muscles and blood vessels, but he supposed it was a reasonable way
      of looking at it if you had no idea of the underlying biological
      systems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you may have already learned, your so-called <em class="calibre8">magical
      core</em> works in much the same way," the old man continued. "And
      just like you have a magical core which grows as you age, plateaus,
      and then slowly starts degenerating towards the end of your first
      century, so you have a pool of life force which grows at first and
      starts declining later in life until it finally dwindles down to
      nothingness. In a witch or wizard, this process takes longer, as
      your body's magic prevents and later slows the decline. Even in
      Squibs <em class="calibre8">–</em> who do possess a magical core, but one which does
      not grow after birth <em class="calibre8">–</em> this effect is noticeable, although
      it is generally not enough to add more than a decade or so. The
      Elixir of Life increases the size of the pool <em class="calibre8">–</em> to a
      limit. The Elixir of Sorcery, which can also be made using the
      stone, similarly increases the size of your pool of magic "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see..." Harry said slowly, considering the Patronus Charm in
      light of this new information. "What happens when you use up all
      your life force?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You die," Dumbledore said simply. "Life force is needed for
      your body to keep functioning. It is, however, not easy to use up
      all your life force, certainly not in the prime of your life. There
      are spells which burn it, and your body steadily consumes it while
      you are awake, but the loss of life force usually happens slowly
      enough that you are rendered unconscious before you can spend the
      last drops. If you survive such a spending, the pool will simply
      replenish itself over time. Phoenix tears can speed up that
      process, although they cannot increase the size of the pool."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And when you grow old, you have less life force, so you tire
      more quickly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When there is less life force available, your body gradually
      adapts to using it less, yes. This means you grow brittle, and
      become more susceptible to minor illnesses, although your magic
      will still be able to fight off most diseases even at an advanced
      age. That is why most magic users die peacefully of old age rather
      than disease, their pool of life force simply fading to be so small
      that it cannot sustain their bodies' continued functioning any
      longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "So what does all that have to do with lead
      turning into gold? The same potion that helps increment a
      mysterious biological force affects the number of protons and
      electrons in a collection of atoms?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster smiled. "Not the same potion – merely the same
      source. The philosopher's stone can be used to create three
      elixirs: Elixir of Life, Sorcery and Nobility, each following a
      different method. You must understand that gold is more than mere
      metal, as is silver. Why do you think those are used as our
      currency? There is a magical component to the noble metals which
      transfigurations <em class="calibre8">–</em> free or permanent – cannot emulate.
      Unfortunately I do not know many details, as treaties with the
      goblins forbid any magical experimentation with these metals, but
      this much is well-known."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry filed that away for future notice. Perhaps he should have
      a good look over the exact formulation of those treaties before
      trying his gold and silver trick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But in short," he summarized. "There <em class="calibre8">actually is</em> a
      device that grants immortality. <em class="calibre8">You have it.</em> You hid it
      <em class="calibre8">in Hogwarts</em>. And you didn't tell me before that such a
      thing exists. In fact," he added after a thought, "you deliberately
      hid it from me, talking of <em class="calibre8">'the thing he wants'</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard bowed his head. "Yes, I did. It was not my secret
      to give away, and aside from that that, I must confess that I
      feared you. I believe now that I was wrong about that, however."
      The blue eyes pierced Harry's. "You do not fear death in the way
      Dark Wizards do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I fully intend to make Death fear <em class="calibre8">me</em>," Harry
      answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster nodded. "I visited Nicolas last Monday, in the
      hope that he could learn your spell. He could not, at the time, but
      he said that he understood the meaning very well. Yesterday, he
      contacted me again and proclaimed that he had finally succeeded,
      and that the charm had touched him on some level he hadn't felt in
      centuries. He also told me that if you had invented this spell,
      then it would be safe to tell you about the Stone. He added that
      you might be one of the few people able to make another, although I
      would personally advise against trying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Why?</em> Surely even <em class="calibre8">wizards</em> don't casually
      overlook the implications of a device that <em class="calibre8">grants
      immortality</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't grant immortality! It merely gives eternal youth. It
      would not have stopped today's deaths." He sighed deeply, as though
      he was carrying the burden of the world on his shoulders. "Nor
      would it save those who succumb to a magical disease. And to answer
      your question, I would advise against it, because even those who
      follow the instructions perfectly <em class="calibre8">–</em> which is
      <em class="calibre8">extremely</em> hard to do, and will take years of intense work
      <em class="calibre8">–</em> tend to die when casting the final spells to complete
      the process. Nicolas Flamel is the only known wizard who has ever
      survived these last steps. There might have been more in the days
      of Atlantis, as <em class="calibre8">someone</em> must have developed the recipe
      from which Nicolas worked, but if any survived its fall, Merlin did
      not know of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why don't wizards who are on the verge of death try to make
      one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it wouldn't work. The spells require such an extreme
      investment of both magic and life force, that you can <em class="calibre8">only</em>
      do it in the prime of your life, when you are likely to still have
      a century ahead of you. Even then, you must be exceedingly powerful
      to even have a chance, and be extremely fortunate to boot. I know
      of hundreds who have tried it, and only one who has succeeded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From a purely utilitarian point of view it might make sense to
      take that chance. If there was a 99% chance of dying in the
      process, and a 1% chance of immortality, then the expected gain
      from trying was 0.99 * -100 + 0.01 * infinite, so still infinite.
      Or, if you assumed that the universe would continue to expand and
      eventually no longer support life, it was about 0.99 * -100 + 0.01
      * 10^10, which was still pretty near infinite. You'd probably need
      some extra precautions to stop dying from other sources, like
      atomic bombs, gamma rays or other mistakes, but if you could do
      that, the maths was pretty clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Would I do it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a painful question, and he didn't know the answer.
      Sometimes, expected value wasn't the only thing of importance,
      because that which you <em class="calibre8">lost</em> would weigh much higher than
      that which you might gain...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was moot anyway. Harry was probably going to find a better
      path to immortality long before the time came to make a
      philosopher's stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I can see your point," he said, carefully keeping his
      voice neutral. "But in all fairness, how do you <em class="calibre8">know</em> that
      this Nicolas is the only one who succeeded? If others had, would
      you have heard of it? It sounds like there's a strong motive for
      secrecy, if you have a device that gives infinite life and money
      and which can be stolen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A good point," the old wizard nodded. "But you should not
      forget that it requires immense magical power to do this, and
      knowledge of certain spells which are not typically shared lightly.
      The Interdict of Merlin guarantees that we know of all who might
      have attempted it, and the deaths of powerful wizards and witches
      tend to be well-documented."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Unless someone got the spells from an alchemist and then
      killed him and made it look like an accident,</em> Harry didn't say
      out loud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why does Nicolas seem to think I have a better chance than
      others of learning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you don't want to avoid dying; you merely want to keep
      living."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm... Headmaster, forgive me for pointing out the obvious, but
      that's exactly the same thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not quite. How should I put this? I suppose you don't want to
      die, not because you <em class="calibre8">fear death</em>, but because you <em class="calibre8">enjoy
      life</em>. And you think that no matter how long you live, you will
      continue to enjoy it so much that you'll want to go on doing
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. That is a pretty accurate summary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that is where you differ from most of those who seek
      immortality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Doubtful,</em> Harry thought. <em class="calibre8">But perhaps in the magical
      world, where trying to avoid death is seen as dark, and people
      don't even</em> consider <em class="calibre8">the possibility that eternal life
      might be a good and bright thing because it is so internalized as
      the kind of thing bad people want, it is true.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what made Nicolas different?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore shrugged helplessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nicolas never truly sought immortality for himself. You see,
      early in life he married a Muggle woman, Perenelle. Despite the
      difference in status, he loved her his entire life, and desired
      more than anything to grow old with her. This wish, of course, was
      not to be. With her not possessing any magic of her own, and having
      suffered various Muggle illnesses during childhood <em class="calibre8">–</em>
      illnesses which had left her body weakened and permanently damaged
      her life force pool <em class="calibre8">–</em> she could never expect to live more
      than seventy years, even with all the magical healing he could
      offer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. He'd wondered about mixed marriages before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fearing the day when she would die before him, Nicolas studied
      alchemy. His father had left him a sufficient fortune so he would
      never need to work, which allowed him to focus on his research
      without ever neglecting his wife. And when Perenelle was old and
      weakening in age, he performed the final spells. He tells me that
      the crucial thing was that he wanted to live, forever, <em class="calibre8">with
      her</em>. He did not mind the chance of dying, for without her,
      life would not be worth living. For what he tells me, the spell
      resonated with him on some powerful level; he sensed that his
      motivations mattered. He aged about seventy years in a minute as a
      large chunk of his life force and magic were ripped out of him, but
      he survived, and the stone was made."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait." Harry was thinking rapidly. "You can use the stone on
      <em class="calibre8">multiple people</em>? But that changes everything!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me finish. The stone generates enough Elixir to sustain
      life and magic for one person at the level of a moderately powerful
      40-year-old, with some left to create a modest bit of gold. It was
      never his intention to use the stone in this way. At first, he gave
      all the Elixir to Perenelle, which finally healed her life core and
      returned her youth. He found that he could sustain her with only a
      bit over half the Elixir. Unfortunately, this did not leave enough
      for himself, all the more so as he needed to sustain his magic as
      well as his life. Being now old himself, it seemed that Perenelle,
      and not he, might end up being the survivor. As you might imagine,
      however, she would not stand for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man smiled fondly. "They compromised. Rather than having
      one of them live forever and the other one die, they chose to
      simply live a long life together. Perenelle aged as Nicolas grew
      younger, until they were physically roughly the same age. Thus it
      was that they learned that it takes less Elixir of Life to sustain
      an eighty-year old than a forty-year old. They could live together
      as somewhat elderly people, but in good health and with sufficient
      energy for a quiet life, while still having some use of the stone
      to spare on Elixir of Sorcery, to preserve Nicolas's magic.
      Unfortunately, it still wasn't enough, so his magic dwindled over
      the next century, then plateaued. Even without further sustenance
      from the stone, his magic did not degenerate beyond that; he is
      roughly as powerful as an average fifth-year child, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's still pretty good," Harry observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes; it is enough to handle health problems for himself and
      Perenelle, and to slow the natural loss of life force, which allows
      him to save up some more of the Elixir. It is certainly sufficient
      for daily use. However, you must take into account that he was a
      <em class="calibre8">very</em> powerful wizard before, and most of the greater
      magics are now well beyond him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see... But he can still <em class="calibre8">teach</em> powerful spells, such
      as the spells to make the stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes." Dumbledore waved his wand. "In fact, when he finds
      someone he trusts, that person might just learn a lot of spells and
      alchemical potion recipes almost forgotten these days. After
      learning your variant of the Patronus spell, he said he would be
      happy for you to study with him, once you graduate Hogwarts. It
      might be an offer worth considering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Yes, definitely." Learning some powerful six
      hundred year old magic lore was an offer not to be sneezed at, and
      a chance to study the philosopher's stone and learn more about the
      arts of immortality might be invaluable too. Although the Elixir of
      Life seemed to be more about aging than actual immortality, and
      wouldn't bring back Mum or any of the others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, actually...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What exactly happens when we die?" That feeling when his mother
      had died had not been physical, but it might just have something to
      do with life force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Dumbledore was surprised at the non-sequitur, he didn't show
      it. "Death is the separation of body, soul, life and magic
      <em class="calibre8">–</em> although I am not certain whether the soul and the magic
      separate or stay together; there are theories that these two parts
      are inextricably tied."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If a person died from non-magical wounds, can the body be cured
      <em class="calibre8">–</em> well, brought back to perfect condition <em class="calibre8">–</em> with
      magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster raised an eyebrow. "I suppose it may be possible,
      although it would be a lot harder than curing a living body. May I
      ask where you are going with these questions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well... What happens when you give Elixir of Life to a
      corpse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," the old wizard spoke sadly. "Nicolas <em class="calibre8">has</em>
      tried it, but his efforts were fruitless. Once the soul has moved
      on, the life force has nothing to latch on to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That, or he didn't know about CPR,</em> Harry thought.
      <em class="calibre8">Or perhaps it worked, but the person immediately died again
      because the Elixir only increases the size of the life pool, but
      doesn't fill it.</em> That <em class="calibre8">could be circumvented by having them
      in the presen</em>ce <em class="calibre8">of the True Patronus Charm when they're
      revived.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ravenclaw cleared her throat. <em class="calibre8">Do we even know whether this
      whole life force explanation is an established medical fact?</em>
      <em class="calibre8">This</em> is <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore talking.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We can ask Madam Pomfrey about it?</em> Hufflepuff
      suggested. <em class="calibre8">We don't need to make all the plans immediately, but
      this certainly seems like an enormously important avenue to
      investigate further. Especially after today.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose your friend Nicolas has some Elixir to spare,
      does he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He does, in fact," the old wizard nodded. "When they found that
      his magic was no longer changing, Nicolas and Perenelle were quite
      settled in the life they had lived for a hundred years, and had
      neither wish nor inclination to have more energy. His vast magical
      lore and aptitude with potions secured a steady income, which
      removed the need for any gold, too <em class="calibre8">–</em> and I do believe the
      goblins at Gringotts give him some very good deals on his banking
      if he refrains from creating any. As a result, he has been storing
      the remaining Elixir for well over three hundred years. He makes
      occasional use of the storage <em class="calibre8">–</em> for example, he has used
      some of the spare Elixir to heal acquaintances suffering from a
      damaged life core like Perenelle first did <em class="calibre8">–</em> but mostly he
      keeps it for experiments, emergency healing, and for the
      contingency that the stone is stolen or destroyed. I believe he
      currently has enough saved up to last him and Perenelle for thirty
      years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can think of some experiments," Harry said pointedly. "When
      we are done here, you are going back in time to the battle, and
      then you will cast your anti-decomposition charm on every child in
      that forest <em class="calibre8">–</em> and McGonagall and Vector too <em class="calibre8">–</em> the
      instant they die. And then we'll see what a combination of
      immortality juice, the True Patronus Charm, Muggle doctors and who
      knows what more together can do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is no point, Harry, their soul has moved on! I understand
      that you're hurt, but no good will come from pinning your hopes on
      <em class="calibre8">–</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just. Do. It."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard sighed. "I cannot go back in time that far
      anymore, I have used too many turns already today. But if you
      insist, I shall ask Alastor Moody to do so once he returns from his
      current assignment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked at his watch. "We have only ten minutes left before I
      should return, so let us move on. I brought you here not merely to
      inform you, but also to seek your advice. With its protections
      gone, the question that I have feared all year has presented
      itself: whether the stone ought to be destroyed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth in shock and then shut it again. He
      stared at the old wizard in complete non-understanding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! Of course not! You don't just throw away immortality,
      that's... that's..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster held up a hand. "I had expected this response
      from you, all the more so now that you have a use for the Elixir in
      mind, futile though I am certain it will prove to be. Yet I ask you
      to consider the question for a moment, before dismissing the idea
      altogether. Nicolas and Perenelle themselves say they are prepared
      to do it, if it will prevent disaster from striking the world
      <em class="calibre8">–</em> but if disaster is unavoidable, or we can avoid it
      without destroying the stone, they would rather not resort to that.
      As it is, without the defenses of Hogwarts, I do not know whether I
      will be able to protect the stone. The wards in these chambers were
      crafted by Merlin himself, but they are not as versatile as the
      Hogwarts wards were. This office was never meant to hide objects
      beyond retrieval, and besides holding the stone on my person, it is
      the only option I have left. The consequence of allowing the
      Philosopher's Stone to remain in existence will likely be that,
      eventually, Voldemort will take possession of it. If not destroying
      the stone, what else is there I can do to keep it from him? You
      know his mind better than any, do you see a way?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would he want it?" Harry asked logically. "He's already
      immortal, I thought we established that point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is immortal only in the sense that his soul cannot be forced
      to move on from this realm either by death or exorcism, not in the
      sense that he doesn't age! To combat the effects of a degenerating
      body, his only recourse without the stone is to die and trust his
      servants to create a new body. There is a ritual that creates a
      body to perfectly match a spirit's magic, but it requires permanent
      sacrifice: in order to create the body, a sufficiently large amount
      of bone from a near ancestor is required, and in order to imbue it
      with life force both a willing servant and an unwilling enemy must
      sacrifice half of theirs <em class="calibre8">–</em> in total, life force is said to
      be lost permanently. This is not a ritual that can be repeated
      infinitely often, if only because there can only be so many near
      ancestors whose bone to take."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about possession?" Harry asked. "Can't he simply keep
      taking over other people's bodies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He could, but his magic would be weaker by having to be
      channeled through another's body. What is more, such a possession
      cannot last long, as it places a great stress on the body, which
      needs to hold two souls at once. I believe that this is what we
      have seen with Quirinius Quirrell, although I did not recognize it
      for what it was at the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his eyebrows. "I'm going to pattern-match this talk
      about souls and ask what happens if a spirit possesses a victim of
      the Dementor's Kiss."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A good question," the old wizard nodded. "These bodies are
      deprived of soul and magic, but retain their life force, and
      therefore would most likely make perfect targets for possession.
      This has not come up in recent years, as it has been the practice
      to destroy the bodies of Dementor victims for centuries, but there
      are certain old tales which suggest that the method has been
      deliberately used in the past to create human hulls amenable to
      possession, as they <em class="calibre8">'do not fight',</em> as the phrase was.
      Even in such cases, though, the possession was said not to have
      lasted more than two decades, and even without soul-conflicts,
      possessing a foreign body still weakens the magic. But in the long
      run, this, at least, is not a problem, as there will be no
      Dementor-victims past this generation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry agreed with a swallow, thinking back to the many
      empty-looking yet still living bodies he had witnessed last week.
      "But I bet he's possessing such a body now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," the old wizard spoke. "But above all these things, there
      is one price that the stone gives, which neither rituals nor
      possession can offer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered. "Magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic," Dumbledore stated. "There are no tales, none at all, of
      wizards who survived their deaths, yet lived beyond their third
      century. Voldemort might leave his body behind and craft himself a
      new one. He might succeed in crafting a <em class="calibre8">young</em> body, if he
      chooses a servant and enemy both in their primes or youth. However,
      I have never heard of any spell or ritual that allows part of a
      magical core to be stolen, or given. It is my suspicion, however
      <em class="calibre8">–</em> although I confess I am not certain <em class="calibre8">–</em> that
      there is simply no magic known to man, no matter how horrific, that
      will stop the degeneration of magic with age. Nothing, besides the
      Philosopher's Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about blood sacrifices, like you said Grindelwald was
      getting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man frowned deeply. "Human sacrifice can be used to
      refill both life and magic cores, and even to overcharge them, but
      not to alter their size. If not used, the spare magic and life
      drain away, and while some of the life can be used to retain the
      magic for longer, the process is very lossy. Grindelwald had people
      killed by the thousands, which included enough Squibs and
      occasionally magic users to increase his power beyond challenge,
      but it would never be sustainable in the long run. Certainly this
      approach would not suffice to combat the effects of age. Voldemort
      would want to preserve as much power as he wields now, so that few
      would have a chance to defeat him. Yet such power can come only by
      sacrificing wizards or witches, likely three to five each day, or
      over a hundred Squibs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That does <em class="calibre8">not</em> seem unsustainable," Harry explained
      patiently. "You just kill witches above childbearing age. Crank up
      the fertility rate a little by giving exemptions to families with
      sufficiently many magical children, and within a century even the
      British Isles alone could produce the 1500 or so blood sacrifices
      each year. And since Squibs can be used, you can even avoid
      wizarding protests about the system just by getting a group of male
      Death Eaters to routinely impregnate a warehouse of Muggle women.
      You said Squib cores simply don't grow, so you can get the full
      effect by killing them as babies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was staring at him in wide-eyed horror. Harry
      sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is like sharpening Hufflepuff bones into weapons again,
      isn't it? Look, I <em class="calibre8">don't</em> think he particularly wants to do
      that. I'm just saying that if he wants to avoid dying, he has other
      options. And honestly, if the alternative option is him setting up
      that kind of system, I'd say <em class="calibre8">give</em> him the stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A pained expression crossed the old wizard's face. "You would
      <em class="calibre8">choose</em> to give Voldemort the means to rise more terrible
      even than before, to become an immortal dictator, whom none could
      challenge even two hundred years from now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said softly. "I would not. But we don't
      <em class="calibre8">know</em> what the future will bring. Since you asked my
      opinion, I would recommend not destroying the Stone. We might still
      need it, and right now I cannot see its destruction achieving
      anything other than the deaths of your friends Nicolas and
      Perenelle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore appeared to consider this, and then nodded his gray
      head slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. I shall follow your advice for now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now it is time to get back to the forest of Dean, and
      protect the children sleeping there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That, and send Mad-Eye Moody back in time to protect the
      bodies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Headmaster grimaced sadly. "Yes, I shall do that
      too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Excellent. Before you take me back, do you have a
      convenient place where I may have been sleeping for the past six
      hours?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
