<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 108: The Muggle War, Pt 6, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 108: The Muggle War, Pt 6</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Wednesday April 29th 1992, 6:03pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was sitting in his new office, scribbling on a piece of
      parchment. The office was a simple stone affair, deep in the
      recesses of the Ministry, in the corridor leading to the Wizengamot
      Hall. The chambers here were not used much, these days, as most
      witches and wizards preferred rooms with a window and easy access
      to the other services higher up in the buildings. But these rooms
      were secure from eavesdropping, Apparating and various other
      hostile possibilities, and would withstand a lot of force. In the
      event of an attack on the Ministry, they were the safest place to
      be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pius Thicknesse – the man who had proposed that Harry could use
      House Vows – had arranged it. The man's first order of business had
      been to swear service to the Potter House and request to be
      included in the negotiations as the representative of the Ministry.
      Then he'd set up the room, haggled with Amelia Bones to have a trio
      of competent Aurors placed outside the door, and left to formulate
      a contract for the representatives of the Wizengamot to sign, which
      would guarantee that the results of Harry's negotiations would be
      followed, and could not be revoked for the duration of a year,
      except by near-unanimous agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pius Thicknesse, apparently, was quite tired of the political
      scene as it had been for almost ten years. The Senior Secretary to
      the Minister of Magic, he was essentially a bureaucrat, the
      pencil-pusher who handled most of the administrative work for the
      Ministry. Corruption appalled him and as a result he held a severe
      dislike for Malfoy, but considered Dumbledore to be hopelessly
      naive. The promise of a new powerful player in the political scene
      gave him hope, so now he leaped at the opportunity to prove himself
      useful and secure his position for the future – an intention he was
      entirely honest about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thicknesse had explained the exact mechanics of the House Vow.
      Much simpler than the Unbreakable Vow, the spell merely created a
      bond between the Lord or Lady of a Noble House and the "servant",
      allowing the former to kill the latter or to destroy their magic
      simply by choosing to do so. In addition, possibly to cater to the
      more squeamish masters who might not wish to be <em class="calibre8">directly</em>
      responsible for their servant's death, the master could give a
      binding order, and should they learn that it had been violated,
      punishment would be immediate without the need for a conscious
      decision. The bond caused a small drain on the master's magic to
      preserve, but the amount was unlikely to be noticeable even with a
      child's magic, and the drain lasted only until the bond was broken.
      In the event of the master's death, the bond would be passed to the
      new Lord or Lady of the House, provided a magical inheritance
      contract was in place, as was the case for the Potters. The
      existence of the bond could be magically verified if the master
      willed it, but its absence could not be confirmed, even by the
      servant; the bond could only be broken with the consent of the
      master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the spell itself was already bad enough, in Harry's
      opinion, the law added to it. It was absolutely forbidden to use
      the spell without a formal servitude contract in place, witnessed
      by a member of the Ministry. While this may have been meant as a
      legal protection to stop people being tricked into accepting the
      spell, it meant that in practice, the spell could not be used
      without <em class="calibre8">also</em> signing up to a host of legal arrangements.
      It was explicitly legal to kill, torture (although not with the
      Cruciatus curse) or otherwise punish a sworn servant, and a servant
      could never file a criminal lawsuit against their master. It
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> possible for the master to cancel the servitude
      contract, but while that came with the legal obligation to also
      release the magical bond, there was no easy way to confirm that the
      latter had been done. It was entirely possible for the Lord of a
      Noble House to cancel a servitude contract but keep the bond in
      place, unknown even to the servant, and kill them at will years
      later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When questioned why he would submit to such a Vow, Thicknesse
      had shrugged and observed that it would not reflect well on the new
      Lord Potter to abuse the privileges granted by the spell to
      needlessly kill or hurt his servant, or to extend the servitude
      longer than a few days given the circumstances under which it was
      agreed. Moreover, Harry had little to gain in illegally preserving
      the bond once the contract was revoked. Thicknesse had always
      refrained from learning Occlumency – being able to have the truth
      of his words magically verified seemed to him a greater advantage
      than the ability to protect his mind – so he would not be able to
      hide it, willingly or otherwise, if Harry told him that the bond
      was still in place. If Harry kept the bond without telling
      Thicknesse, it would be a constant drain on his magic for little
      gain, as Thicknesse was not at all likely to be more useful to him
      dead than alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Thicknesse had sat down to discuss Harry's security. He had
      observed that there were a few people – Bartemius Crouch, for
      instance – who were none too pleased with Harry's proposals
      <em class="calibre8">or</em> his appointment as negotiator, and that some of those
      might seek to remove the problem. That was why he arranged the
      Aurors before leaving, and promised to make sure to put certain
      safeguards in the Wizengamot's contract.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A knock on the door announced the arrival of a visitor. Harry
      blanked the parchment he was writing on with a tap of his wand, sat
      up straighter and said: "Come in!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy opened the door and stepped inside. He would have
      been checked for polyjuice and had his wand confiscated by the
      Aurors, of course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Malfoy," Harry said formally, activating the privacy wards
      in the office with a quick move of his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Potter," Lucius Malfoy nodded. "I have come to swear
      servitude to your House, and request to be included in the peace
      negotiations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at him. <em class="calibre8">Has he gone mad, or what?</em> The Lord
      of Malfoy, surely, would be able to pay someone to serve as a
      binder for the Unbreakable Vow...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would be glad to have you accompany me in whatever peace
      negotiations we settle on," he replied, just managing to keep the
      surprise out of his voice. "But are you sure you would submit to a
      House Vow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. An Unbreakable Vow is impractical," Lucius Malfoy spoke
      calmly. "It is too rigid, defining an exact set of conditions to be
      met. If the negotiations turn out differently from the way we
      expect, it would deprive me from the ability to improvise. In the
      case of a House Vow, improvising would merely place my death at
      your discretion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose it would," Harry said, "But as I understand it, there
      is absolutely no way to guarantee that I will release you
      afterwards. Are you not concerned about this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all," Lord Malfoy stated with a slight smile. "For I am
      not asking you to release me afterwards. Releasing the contract
      would be politically prudent, perhaps, but I do not mind if the
      bond itself remains in place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. <em class="calibre8">What?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You seem surprised," Lucius Malfoy observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes," Harry answered. "I am struggling to comprehend why
      you would be willing to enslave yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are few people who truly comprehend the power of
      servitude, Lord Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded slowly, thinking through the implications. The
      House Vow was a powerful way to achieve trust: when someone can
      kill you at will, you are very unlikely to betray them. The Vow
      left <em class="calibre8">some</em> wiggle room – a sworn servant could betray their
      Lord provided the Lord never found out – but it was too dangerous
      to be used lightly. A master, on the other hand, had reason not to
      abuse the privilege: it would be in his interest to preserve the
      servant's loyalty, and to not push them towards betrayal or
      substandard performance. To Harry, the Lord Malfoy could be an
      extremely useful ally, if he could have the guarantee that the man
      wasn't going to stab him in the back. And to Lucius, the bond would
      create opportunities to make suggestions expedient to him. Lucius
      had taken willing servitude to Lord Voldemort in the last war, and
      for all Harry could see, had profited from the arrangement: at the
      very least he had come out with all his power intact, and it was
      likely that many of his political opponents had been killed in the
      war. He <em class="calibre8">had</em> lost his wife, but for that he blamed
      Dumbledore, not Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet, something still felt wrong. He should probably just
      allow the man to swear servitude and be done with it, but he had
      the feeling there was some deeper motive behind the man's
      professions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You must know that I do not share some ideas which are very
      important to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man before him grimaced briefly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you believe that I agreed with the Dark Lord's ideas? No. I
      am well aware that our values are not fully aligned, Lord Potter.
      Even if my son had not told me of your beliefs, your statements
      with regards to the negotiations made that clear: you seek to live
      together in peace, not to subjugate. But in cases of importance,
      one must prioritize. There are two things which matter more to me
      than anything else in the world. The power of House Malfoy. And my
      son, Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused for a few moments, but Harry didn't speak, so he
      continued: "You are powerful, Lord Potter. Or will be, in the near
      future. Anyone with any sense at all would see that. With the
      support of the country behind you, I have little doubt that you
      will resolve the current crisis to general satisfaction, a feat
      that will gain you a large following. I helped your rise to power
      by not obstructing your appointment today, but even without my
      help, you would have got there eventually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what has this to do with your son and your House?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know well that you have little reason to ally yourself with
      me. In the last war... well. And only this month, I had your friend
      sent to Azkaban – unjustly, as it turns out. My son tells me that
      you do not care to take sides, but I suspect that you are a lot
      more sympathetic to Dumbledore's causes than mine. If you continue
      to think of me as a potential enemy, the power of House Malfoy
      might fall." He shrugged. "Yet you call Draco friend. I do not ask
      for any favors, but I hope you will remember him, in your future
      plans."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah.</em> "I think I can safely promise that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you allow me to swear?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something still felt off. No matter how plausible the
      explanation sounded with all that Harry knew of the man, it was
      still hard to believe that the Lord of House Malfoy would willingly
      swear himself into the service of house and submit to the whims of
      a child his son's age. But there didn't seem to be a good reason to
      refuse, so Harry nodded, canceled the privacy charms and rang the
      little bell on his desk, which had been enchanted to cause a
      ringing sound outside the door. One of the Aurors immediately came
      in to perform the spell and witness the oath of servitude that
      would seal the legal contract.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, Harry James Potter, Lord of House Potter, declare that I
      will release Lord Lucius Malfoy from our servitude contract within
      one week after the negotiations with the Muggle government end,"
      Harry declared. It was the same promise he had made for
      Thicknesse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Auror nodded. "I witness this promise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The silk-robed, white-haired killer nodded solemnly, then sank
      down on his knees to follow the common form prescribed by law.
      Harry had to fight to keep his face straight as the noble lord,
      without any trace of irony, looked up in subjugation to an
      eleven-year old child. Harry stepped in front of the desk, held out
      his wand, as he had been instructed, and let Lucius take the other
      end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Upon my life and magic," the Lord of Malfoy recited, "I swear
      service to the House of Potter, to obey its Master or Mistress, and
      stand at their right hand, and fight at their command, and follow
      where they go, at their choice or until the day I die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed. "I, Harry, Lord of the House of Potter, accept
      your service."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Servuro,</em>" the Auror cast. A golden band sprang from
      his wand, and twisted itself around Harry's and Lucius's wands.
      Something inside Harry <em class="calibre8">tugged</em> and Harry, mentally
      accepting the bond, saw the golden band sink into both their hands
      as Lucius did the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is done." Lucius Malfoy stood up. "Send for me, and I will
      appear by your side."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you." Harry didn't really know what else to say. Lucius
      had chosen this of his own free will, but Harry still felt guilty
      for accepting. Even if he ended the contract the moment the
      negotiations were over, Lucius Malfoy would never know for certain
      whether the bond was gone, since unlike with Thicknesse, Harry
      would have a powerful motive to keep it in place. The man would
      never truly be free anymore. Or had he planned something against
      that?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His servant bowed deeply, and left the room together with the
      Auror.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Wednesday April 29th 1992, 7:27pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You too?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will swear," Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore nodded,
      "if you will let me. I hope I am still in time to join your
      negotiation unit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "You're only the third. Aren't you afraid of what
      I might do if you give me the power to kill you with just a
      thought?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I trust you," the old wizard said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well, at least that makes one of us.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered the old man. It would definitely be a good idea
      to have someone as powerful as Dumbledore by his side; he was the
      only one who might have a chance to save the day if Riddle should
      end up interfering. Unfortunately, Dumbledore <em class="calibre8">knew</em> him.
      Dumbledore would know that Harry might hesitate to kill him or take
      his magic if he spoke out of turn. And he was not at all afraid of
      death; if Harry's proposals shocked him enough, the man might
      decide that the risk was worth it. Harry could avoid that by
      precommitting to a punishment under given conditions, but this
      would only work for very straightforward conditions. It would lose
      the important flexibility advantage Lucius had spoken of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Would he risk an all-out war by messing up and possibly
      dying during negotiations?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unlikely. Dumbledore was even willing to go along with Voldemort
      if it meant an end to the bloodshed. He would not take the risk of
      interfering with Harry unless the very fate of the world was at
      stake. And what was more: thinking back, he'd been treating Harry
      as an adult, even followed his commands, ever since he'd offered to
      relinquish command of the Order. Ever since Harry had told him that
      he didn't like his methods... Perhaps Harry should have noticed
      that before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You hesitate?" The old wizard asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Thinking about it. I'm not sure it really adds
      any value if you swear..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Dumbledore shook his head. "It would significantly
      compromise your neutrality if I you allowed me to join the
      negotiations without being sworn to you. Lucius would never accept
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. He wasn't going to be stupid enough to reject
      Albus Dumbledore's offer anyway. And yet...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor –" Harry asked, his mouth dry. "I need to know. Did
      you burn Narcissa Malfoy to death?" In this room, in this context
      of trust, with all the privacy wards activated, there could be no
      harm in telling him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man remained silent for long seconds, a hard-to-read
      expression on his face. Then, he bowed his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked up into Harry's eyes. "I did not make her suffer – not
      pain, at least, only fear. I used an anesthetic spell on her first
      – it was the only grace I could bestow. But kill her I did. It has
      haunted me ever since."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, a lump in his throat. He wasn't sure whether the
      formulation of his pledge to Draco quite covered this case, but the
      <em class="calibre8">spirit</em> of his conditions to take Dumbledore as an enemy
      had not been met. And without any doubt, the support of the great
      hero Albus Dumbledore, Chief Warlock and Supreme Mugwump, would be
      instrumental into securing the loyalty of a certain camp of
      politicians, which might be essential after the fallout from parts
      of the political spectrum following the negotiations. He could not
      afford to alienate the man any further than he already had, nor was
      there a good reason to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He canceled the privacy protections, rung the little bell and
      held out his wand. The old man smiled somewhat sadly, knelt, and
      took it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Upon my life and magic –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought he felt it, now. A small fraction of his magic set
      aside to maintain the three bonds, unavailable for other magic. It
      wasn't much – it probably wouldn't interfere with his usual spell
      casting – but still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I should probably not do many more of these.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although for that matter, another portion of his magic was
      constantly used to maintain the transfigured gem in his ring, and
      if magical power should become an issue...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor?" he asked, as the ancient wizard stood up and the
      Auror had left. "Can I ask why you told me to carry around my
      father's rock?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a slight smile, at that, although Harry did not see
      any twinkle in the eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because there was absolutely no reason why you would," he
      answered. "Unless on some level, you trusted me implicitly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah,</em> Harry thought, glancing at the ring still around
      his finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even when I seemed insane to you, even when people tried to
      drive a wedge between us, you chose to go to a lot of effort to do
      something just because I <em class="calibre8">might</em> have had a reason to ask.
      While you did so, I knew that you still valued my counsel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. Had the man been right? He hadn't really
      reconsidered the question whether it made sense to keep his
      father's rock around, recently; maintaining the transfiguration had
      become such a force of habit that he didn't really do it
      consciously anymore for most of the time, or associate the gem with
      Dumbledore – or even think about the stupidity of the whole
      arrangement at all. And yet, if he had decided that Dumbledore
      might mean him harm, and consciously reevaluated everything the man
      had told him, then he would not have continued wearing that ring.
      In truth, even though he had taken 'first steps" to making
      Dumbledore his enemy, at an emotional level he <em class="calibre8">did</em> still
      trust the old man, his heart if not his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That really is all?" Harry asked, removing the ring. If there
      was no point in sustaining the transfiguration, he might as well
      reserve his magic for better uses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There were side effects," Dumbledore replied. "While you worked
      on permanently sustaining a transfiguration despite your age,
      keeping the magic active even in your sleep, your magical strength
      in that direction grew – and Transfiguration is one of the most
      powerful and versatile magics to be adept with. I don't know in how
      far my nudge sparked your interest in that field, but I hope it
      helped a <em class="calibre8">little</em>, at least. I myself spent most of my
      school years sustaining a variety of transfigurations as a matter
      of course. However, I confess I could likely have achieved that
      effect simply by asking Minerva to suggest the possibility to you."
      His face clouded over at the mention of Minerva McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just nodded, putting the twinge of grief aside.
      <em class="calibre8">That</em> reasoning, at least, was remarkably rational. "Was
      there any similar kind of reason for the chicken?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," Albus Dumbledore smiled. "I have long been doing
      things like that. You see, many people look up to me. See me as
      their god, in some cases. It can be relaxing to act a little
      strange towards children, in cases when my actions do <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      affect the lives of other people for once. As for why I acted that
      way to <em class="calibre8">you</em> –" he smiled wanly. "The hero cannot come to
      rely too much on others' judgment. I would have you trust me, but
      think for yourself. Although in hindsight I have realized that this
      act was not necessary in your case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. He thought low enough of the former Headmaster's
      judgment without the help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard nodded. "I suppose I'd better get back to my work
      on the nation's traces. I fear I have a long night ahead."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Wednesday April 29th 1992, 8:44pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Snape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The greasy man carefully closed the door behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have come to swear to you, Lord Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at him. "<em class="calibre8">You</em> want to join the
      negotiations?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Potions Master shook his head. "No. I wish to swear service
      to your House, permanently."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was entirely lost for words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I confess that it will be distasteful, being sworn to the House
      of <em class="calibre8">Potter,</em>" the man spoke after a while, "but I suppose it
      cannot be helped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Why?</em>" Harry asked. "What do you stand to gain by
      surrendering your freedom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never have been free," the Potions Master said, almost
      angrily. "I have served others for all my adult life. Both of my
      masters treated me with some kindness, and yet –" he waved his hand
      irritably. "I would take the chance to serve a better master
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not just live for yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not ready to live without a master. I might never be.
      Although as you may guess, there is more to this." He met Harry's
      eyes. "You realized the weakness in the mark, so to you, I can
      speak somewhat freely. Can you guess, Harry Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought about it. "The dark mark... does it work like the
      House Vow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not precisely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But partially? It allows him to kill you on command, without
      even having to point a wand at you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Potions Master nodded, his mouth a thin line. "If he
      commands me, I must obey, or I <em class="calibre8">will</em> die. Indeed, I expect
      that he understands that I am not loyal to him – but his recent
      actions make it abundantly clear that he is unlikely to disapprove
      of loyalty to <em class="calibre8">you</em>. I believe he will not punish me for
      swearing to you. Yet having two masters provides a certain
      protection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered this. "You think he will not order you to work
      against me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There would be no point, as it would give you no choice but to
      kill me – and as he has nothing to gain from my death, I believe he
      will not try. Similarly, he stands nothing to win from giving me
      orders contradictory to yours, unless your commands are detrimental
      to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. So swearing to <em class="calibre8">me</em> liberates you from his
      control."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a sense, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think that this reasoning played a role for Lucius
      too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know." Snape stared into space. "Albus has initially
      spoken very clearly of his beliefs on the Defense Professor's
      identity, and even though he was not taken seriously at the time,
      Lucius will certainly have heard the tale. He might not know what
      to think of it, as I also would not, given only what little
      information the Headmaster could divulge. However, he will
      certainly have taken the possibility into account, and will have
      noted that in his guise as Professor Quirrell, the man was pushing
      for you to gain influence. Whether, if he believes it plausible, he
      would prefer simply to follow our old master's guidance or to have
      some measure of protection against him I could not say for sure,
      although I would suspect the former is more probable than the
      latter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Well. I suppose protection from a dark lord is as
      good as a reason as any for signing yourself into slavery. You just
      want me to keep the bond active, and forbid you from doing a number
      of things you definitely don't want to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The older wizard shook his head. "I can do a lot more if you let
      me. I'm a moderately powerful wizard, Potter. I know you have plans
      to reshape the country, and I'll gladly help you bring them
      about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. <em class="calibre8">He wants to</em> actually <em class="calibre8">serve me? What
      is this, Dark Lord Harry day?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know next to nothing about you, Professor," he said
      carefully. "You seem to think that I would be a better master than
      Dumbledore, and you seem to take this servitude thing a lot more
      serious than I have, so far – but to what purpose? What is it you
      hope to achieve?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Many things." He closed his eyes. "I was a good man once, or
      moderately good at least. Lily always brought out the best in me.
      I... I was weak, I tagged along with the other Slytherins. got
      intrigued by dark magic. But she always pulled me back. The way she
      preached about what Slytherin House was, what it ought to be –"
      There was a note of pain in the Potions Master's voice that sounded
      alien to it; it was hard to imagine it being the same acid voice
      that instructed children not to stir one more time unless they
      <em class="calibre8">liked</em> their wrists getting blown off. "I was a fool then,
      and I lost her respect. But it has shaped my later perceptions of
      the House, what it should be, and the painful reality of what it
      was. That's one of the things I wanted to do, to help bring back
      honor to the noble House of Slytherin, and since I have become
      more... perceptive, recently, it has become clear to me that the
      Headmaster has lost all hope. But you and Miss Granger were trying
      to do something, and you managed to bring over Mr. Malfoy and Miss
      Greengrass..." He shook his head sadly. "It is moot now, of course.
      The school is gone. But it is one of several things that persuaded
      me that your dreams are much like your mother's, even if slightly
      more ambitious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Realization hit Harry as he parsed this information. "It was
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> who sent those notes to Hermione!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus Snape nodded. "She was willing to do something, and I
      helped. I sent those notes. I pierced Jaime Astorga's shields, and
      watched to make sure they survived their following battles,
      although Miss Tonks's help made further assistance unnecessary. I
      had <em class="calibre8">planned</em> to use the final ambush as the perfect moment
      to make a vision of the ghost of Salazar Slytherin appear, but –"
      he shrugged helplessly. "That plan failed. And then, of course, the
      Headmaster asked me to protect the girl in the only way <em class="calibre8">he</em>
      saw, which put everything back to the status quo again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "And... forgive me for asking, but you mentioned
      my mother... surely you do not <em class="calibre8">still</em> love her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will always love her." His expression darkened. "I know she
      had her faults. Nobody is perfect, and it was foolish to put her on
      a pedestal for so long. But I still esteem her, and the things she
      believed in. She wasn't as shallow as you said, you know – she was
      more willing to put aside prejudices than most, even if she
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> sometimes too quick to jump to conclusions. When I
      insulted her, it wasn't the first time I betrayed our friendship,
      and she had always forgiven me before – but showing contempt for
      Muggleborns was the straw that finally broke the camel's back. She
      might have come to forgive me, in time, if I had shown her that I
      could be a better man. But I did not. Without her influence, I sank
      deeper into the dark arts, went along with some extremely misguided
      ideas, and became everything she had always told me not to be. And
      James – <em class="calibre8">he</em> improved." The pain in the voice was strong,
      now, and Harry thought that the man might be about to cry,
      impossible though that might seem, if his tears had not been cried
      out a long time ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"However it may be," the man continued. "I let my grief
      overshadow all other feelings. I followed Albus, because I thought
      that's what she would have wanted. I never even considered other
      women with feelings besides contempt. But in all that I did, I did
      not give one thought to what would be <em class="calibre8">right</em> for me to
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what would that be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, not exactly. When I was young, before everything
      went wrong, Lily and I spoke of many things. The war, politics,
      justice and compassion... She dreamed of a world without war and
      blood prejudice, where everyone would be treated equally. I dreamed
      of a world where someone like her and someone like me could be
      together without all the pressure to break up and go the ways
      dictated by our separate situations. We both wanted the same, in
      the end, and twenty years later, I still want to make a world like
      that – more realistic perhaps, but ultimately that. Unfortunately,
      I have always been a weak man. I cannot make her dreams, or mine,
      come true; I wouldn't even know where to begin. But I can pledge my
      life to someone better than me, who can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, a lump in his throat, held out his wand, and rang
      the bell for the Auror.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Wednesday April 29th 1992, 10:44pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody had brought him dinner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody had asked whether he wanted to go home or maybe to some
      kind of guarded hotel room to sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Aurors outside the door had changed, but they didn't really
      talk to him unless he asked them questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I guess this is what it means to be an adult. Nobody is</em>
      supposed <em class="calibre8">to take care of me anymore.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Should he send a Patronus and see whether Professor Snape would
      come and pick him up? Or maybe ask whether the Aurors would be
      willing to transfigure him a bed, and check whether Lucius or maybe
      Snape would be able to go to his parents' house to find a
      refreshment of clothes? Would there be a bath anywhere in this
      building?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened slightly, and then closed again. Harry blinked.
      Then an excited voice squeaked from somewhere near the ground:
      "Harry Potter, sir!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood up so he could look over the desk better. On the
      ground was a House Elf, dressed in a neat tea towel that did not
      look like the garment the Hogwarts Elves usually wore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I is Dobby, sir, Malfoy House Elf. Master is sending me to make
      sure Mister Harry Potter is comfortable." The Elf seemed to be
      positively brimming with excitement at the idea of making himself
      useful. "Master says to apologize for not thinking about it
      earlier. Does Master's master need anything?" The creature looked
      up with big, hopeful eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat back in his chair with a big grin on his face.
      <em class="calibre8">Goooood minion.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thursday April 30th 1992, 9:00am.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My greetings, prime minister."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom gasped as a bright
      silver man appeared before him. All conversation around the table –
      which had been tiring enough even for the early hour – stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It seems that our countries are at war," the silver man spoke,
      "when both sides would much rather have peace. Therefore, on behalf
      of Lord Harry Potter, who was elected to speak on behalf of all
      magic users in Britain, I propose a truce. Let us negotiate.
      Starting at noon, no one in Britain should use any magic that will
      affect non-magic users, other than in self-defense. In four hours
      time I will return, and ask whether you would be willing to set a
      time and conditions for a meeting. Naturally, the conditions are
      all yours to propose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The glowing silver man bowed deeply, and moved sideways out of
      sight.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still don't see why you didn't want to give him a chance to
      answer immediately!" Cornelius Fudge exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He might feel overwhelmed, and therefore more easily reject our
      proposal outright if we put him on the spot," Harry Potter
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath felt like he was soaring with pride to be part of this.
      This morning, he and the other temporary inhabitants of Number 12
      Grimmauld Place had woken up to a letter delivered by Ministry owl,
      which informed them that absolutely no magic was allowed to be
      performed until further notice. After the initial shock, Professor
      Snape had explained what was happening at the Ministry, and Lesath
      had persuaded his Head of House to deliver him there, where he
      might also swear servitude to the new Lord Potter. His master had
      refused the servitude, however: Harry Potter insisted that Lesath
      could not take the contract until he was at least seventeen years
      old, even though he <em class="calibre8">had</em> already sworn, a vow of character
      as binding as any magical contract. But then, he had allowed Lesath
      to be of some immediate use instead: his Patronus had a more adult
      voice than Harry's own, so, after he managed to shape it like an
      adult man, had been the perfect messenger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why did you tell him the conditions are all his?" The
      Minister for Magic was objecting. "That seems to be going a little
      far!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It establishes some measure of trust, by allowing them control.
      We can pose our own requests for modifications later – there is
      very little we need to ask for anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should you not have at least asked for a meeting before the
      eyes of the country?" Professor Dumbledore asked. "That is what you
      suggested before the Wizengamot, is it not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I insist on that, they're going to assume that we can do
      something to enchant everyone who watches the events on television
      or something like that – which would be really interesting if we
      could pull it off, actually, but let's not go there. I'll
      <em class="calibre8">suggest</em> the possibility later, but don't want to give him
      the idea that it's too important. The chance that they'll go for a
      live broadcast to avoid deception is pretty high, anyway, and if
      not, they're bound to transmit the video afterwards if they're
      comfortable with the result of the negotiations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Harry Potter turned to Lesath. "Lestrange, thank you for
      your assistance. Are you available to do that again at one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He thought he saw the others in the room cringing at the use of
      his surname (at least the politicians – the Headmaster had never
      seemed to care much). There was something intensely satisfying
      about their discomfort, and Harry Potter's evident approval of
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Lord Potter."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thursday April 30th 1992, 11:12am.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lay on his back, staring at the ceiling of his office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Calm. Planned. In complete control. That was the face he had to
      show to the outside world. But with no one there to see, he was
      allowed to doubt, at least a little.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What if I can't do this?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd accepted his expertise. They'd agreed to overlook his
      age, or even use it to their advantage. He had promised them, and
      himself, an end to a senseless war that could easily turn into a
      world war if mismanaged, not country on country but Muggle on
      Magical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Just fix the world, Harry. No pressure.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could it be that he was vastly overestimating himself? What if
      he only made things worse?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't be sure what Riddle was planning – he had a
      <em class="calibre8">rough</em> idea, but bits and pieces didn't add up completely,
      and it was <em class="calibre8">entirely</em> likely that the man would take
      offense. Was he just going to get himself and other people killed?
      And if not, was he going to ruin everything and launch the country
      into an unstoppable war?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no real answer. He had to work from the information he
      had, and do the best he could, adapting to changing circumstances
      as they came up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone knocked on the door – probably Thicknesse. Harry drew
      himself up, sat down in his chair, and took a moment to pull the
      cold over himself like a mask. "Come in."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thursday April 30th 1992, 1:00pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greetings, Prime Minister. Have you decided to meet with
      us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Prime Minister drew himself up to his full height to address
      the strange creature. The people he had drummed up had debated all
      through lunch and although no one could quite agree on their
      demands, there was a general consensus that at least hearing what
      this "Lord Harry Potter" had to say might be worthwhile. He didn't
      trust that all the people in the debate were entirely on the same
      side – given the possibility of magical impersonification it would
      be insane to assume that everyone was themselves – but the decision
      had <em class="calibre8">felt</em> natural enough, at least, and he <em class="calibre8">thought</em>
      he himself believed it was a good idea. (It was very hard not to
      get paranoid in the presence of a magical enemy, however.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What exactly is it you want to discuss in that meeting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The glowing man disappeared briefly, and then returned. "How to
      achieve peace between our people. It will be much easier to speak
      face-to-face than using magical intermediates."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we wouldn't be safe if we met you face-to-face! We demand a
      video conference."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The glowing man disappeared, and reappeared again a minute
      later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those terms are acceptable to us. Take whichever precautions
      you wish. Choose a room for the negotiations. Install cameras
      there. Submit the footing either only to your confederates, or to
      the entire world, as you wish. Allow an audience or ambassadors if
      you want. We only ask that you give us a few minutes before the
      meeting to guard the room against outside magical interference, and
      that you do not bring in more than forty people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Prime Minister looked at the others around the table. "How
      do we know that you will not trick us into accepting your
      proposals? Or subvert the cameras and make us seem to have agreed
      to an arrangement we have no intention of making?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We want <em class="calibre8">peace</em>, Prime Minister. Trickery is hardly
      likely to achieve that, especially since your people would likely
      see through it, and not accept any treaty that might result from
      such a meeting. Make whatever checks you deem necessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well then." He glanced around, and saw nods around the
      room. "Tomorrow afternoon, at 2pm. Send this... thing to us an hour
      beforehand, and we will tell you the location."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The glowing man left and returned. "Thank you, Prime Minister."
      Then he bowed deeply, and disappeared.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thursday April 30th 1992, 3:39pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Another spell at Gloucester! Chopping hex."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn it, probably just another person cooking. <em class="calibre8">One
      day</em>, is that so much to ask? We even listed Apparition spots
      to get cheap food and other commodities! Bahry, take your team over
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones noted down the time and location and put it on the
      stack. Every 45 minutes, one of her Aurors would take the notes
      back in time to the special team, who invisibly investigated the
      disturbances just beforehand, and left an instant before the normal
      Aurors arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sparkling charm down Liverpool! We have an attack!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Komodo, Butnaru, Goryanof! Get over there!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't!" Komodo yelled an instant later. "Blocked
      apparition!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Johnson! Do you have an exact location on that one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes!" The Auror ran in from the alarm room with a piece of
      paper and flung it into Komodo's hands, just as Auror Dimitriov
      yelled "Illegal Apparition in Keith! Unregistered person!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was going to be a <em class="calibre8">long</em> day.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thursday April 30th 1992, 6:43pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My spies report that the building the Muggles will most likely
      use is <em class="calibre8">here</em>," Lucius Malfoy said, indicating a place on a
      large projected map of London. "It looks like they are ready to
      receive us in style. It's a palace."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Windsor Castle," Harry nodded. "That's pretty impressive. And
      given its importance and location, that probably means they aren't
      planning to employ any weapons of mass-destruction on the area
      while we're there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you assembled your team yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. You, Albus Dumbledore and Pius Thicknesse have all agreed
      to come, and taken House Vows to ensure non-interference. Two
      others have inquired whether further members were needed, but with
      Mr. Thicknesse representing the Ministry and you and the Chief
      Warlock representing the Wizengamot, I believe this is already
      fairly spread around, and we cannot bring too many who do not serve
      an obvious purpose. With the three of you working together and a
      team of Aurors on Apparition standby, I think we should be safe
      from Muggle attacks, especially if we check for mines or other
      weaponry beforehand. We should also prepare for the possibility
      that any wizards who do not agree with the solution we might reach
      choose to attack us, however. If the Muggles broadcast the
      negotiations live to the entire country, as I expect they will,
      other wizards will immediately know what is going on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We will employ all available resources of the Ministry to
      protect the castle," Cornelius Fudge instantly brought forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We do not know for sure whether it's going to be there," Harry
      pointed out. "And the Muggles would be very put out if they got any
      hint of us interfering with the location beforehand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm sure that we can do some decent protections at a
      moment's notice too..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I shall count on that," Harry nodded. "With one constraint: if
      you're setting up anti-Apparition wards, I want Lord Malfoy and Mr.
      Thicknesse to be able to either bypass them, alone or with someone
      else, or to drop the wards altogether to allow Aurors in. If two of
      the three are unconscious or otherwise incapacitated, they should
      also drop. Is that doable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Albus Dumbledore answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wonderful. And in case the Muggles are brave or silly enough to
      have us talk with representatives who are physically there, I think
      it may be a good idea if we can ask Hermione whether she wants to
      join." Harry had given this a lot of thought over the last day, and
      while he didn't like putting her in danger, she was in fact one of
      the safest people to bring along. Any attack that a person with
      instant teleportation could not get out of was likely to kill
      anyone on the spot, and they <em class="calibre8">were</em> guarding the location to
      the best of the Ministry's abilities. "She will be able to bring
      the representatives to safety if necessary, while Professor
      Dumbledore may stay behind to ward off attacks." Which was part of
      the reason, although mostly he wanted her along because he
      suspected she might have valuable input. The adults could not
      <em class="calibre8">interfere</em> inappropriately, but that didn't mean they had
      to like where he was going, and they wouldn't fully understand the
      Muggle side of things. Hermione would be able to bring her own
      ideas to the table, and stop Harry from doing anything overly
      stupid or evil.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would not expect any attacks that would make such precautions
      necessary, Lord Potter," Lord Malfoy said with a frown. "But if you
      do bring her, might I suggest also bringing my son, Draco? If you,
      a child in their eyes, surround yourself with a guard of three
      adults and one other child, they will conclude the two of you are
      equals. If two children guard you, you are still central."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And you want your son to be at least equal to Hermione in
      status,</em> Harry thought. <em class="calibre8">Although the point is probably
      valid.</em> "I am concerned for your son's safety, Lucius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even assuming your concerns are valid," Lord Malfoy said
      smoothly, in a tone that suggested in the politest possible way
      that he didn't give this idea much credit, "we can protect him
      easily. An emergency portkey, perhaps. That should leave him in no
      more danger than the Granger girl, and I assume Albus will be
      shielding our group regardless. I can guarantee that Draco will not
      unduly interfere – and if you have doubts in that regard, he is
      young enough for me to silence him wordlessly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hesitated. It was a stupid risk to take, but perhaps
      Lucius was right that it wasn't that much more dangerous for Draco
      than for Hermione. There was a very good reason to include
      Hermione, but there was a solid political reason for Draco, too: if
      he wanted to keep Lucius's loyalty, Draco was the key.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll think about it," he said, not wanting to commit
      immediately. Lucius Malfoy nodded. "I suppose I shall have to be
      content with that. Now, as for your clothes –"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thursday April 30th 1992, 8:19pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had invited her to his office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His <em class="calibre8">office</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She trudged through the stone corridors (Xare couldn't bring her
      to a place she hadn't seen before), through the door she had been
      directed to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a waiting room. Two Aurors stood guard in front of the
      inner door, wands already pointing at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I – ah – have an appointment?" she squeaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty checking spells later, some prodding with a strange
      device, and her wand getting confiscated, she was finally ushered
      through the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there, lying on his stomach on the fluffy red carpet, was
      harry. He was writing in some kind of notebook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Hermione," he said happily when she came in. "Come in and
      sit down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She closed the door behind her and plopped down on the carpet
      beside him. "Why exactly are we on the floor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I got tired of sitting all day. That chair is a little too high
      for me." He shrugged. "Anyway, we need to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About how you suddenly seem to be Minister of Magic or
      something, and everyone is referring to you as 'Lord Potter'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, not <em class="calibre8">quite</em> the Minister of Magic. I'm just in
      charge of negotiations with the Muggle world. I suppose I could use
      those to <em class="calibre8">put</em> myself in charge, but that's not really the
      point of all this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry! What is going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, first of all you should know that the Minister of magic
      doesn't really have all that much power. The <em class="calibre8">real</em>
      decisions are made by Lucius Malfoy and Professor Dumbledore, and
      they can't agree on anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess I can see that," she said, thinking back of her first
      trial.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," Harry continued. "<em class="calibre8">Normally</em> that's not much of a
      problem – sometimes one of them wins, sometimes the other, life
      goes on. But right now, we're in a crisis situation, and neither of
      them has managed to propose a solution that a majority will go
      along with. Dumbledore told me that they couldn't even propose a
      solution that made sense to <em class="calibre8">themselves;</em> they were fighting
      over the direction to look in. And that's not even going into all
      the chaos with their own backing being split between terror,
      hatred, contempt or ambiguity towards Muggles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So they involved a third party," Hermione said, understanding.
      Harry nodded. "And naturally," she resumed, "they chose an
      eleven-year-old child to be that party."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know I'm not really eleven, Hermione," he said soberly.
      "I'm not sure <em class="calibre8">what</em> I am, but the child-label doesn't
      really apply to me anymore. Even less than to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, knowing perfectly well what he meant. "So what
      exactly is the arrangement, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They voted to view me as an adult for the law, so I am now Lord
      Potter," he ticked off. "I have a seat in the Wizengamot. They
      followed my suggestions to put the country under a trace to
      guarantee everyone plays nicely. And they gave me complete rights
      to negotiate with the Muggle government and make any promises on
      behalf of the wizarding community of Britain that I deemed
      necessary. They said they'll stick to it, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." She considered the list. "That's quite a bit. Are you
      <em class="calibre8">sure</em> they will stick to it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Minister's Secretary has written a contract on those lines,
      and then got most of the Wizengamot to sign it. It would take a 90%
      majority of the Wizengamot to go back on anything agreed upon with
      the Muggle government in less than a year. Given that it's hard to
      get the Wizengamot to agree on <em class="calibre8">anything</em>, such a majority
      is very unlikely to happen, especially since going back on the
      contract means war, which more than 10% will probably consider a
      sufficiently terrifying prospect to go along with pretty much
      anything. And they can't just ignore an agreement sealed in that
      way without uprooting the foundations of the current government,
      which includes their own seats of power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," she nodded. "And this is absolutely not going to end
      with you putting yourself in charge of the entire country?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would I do that?" He asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt a feeling of panic rising in her chest. "Harry..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grinned. "I take it you don't trust me at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not on this." She didn't have nightmares about him threatening
      to kill off half the Wizengamot for her anymore, but that was only
      because Xare stopped that kind of thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're probably right about that." He heaved a deep sigh and
      rolled over on his back. As though by an unspoken command, the
      lights in the room dimmed to not shine in his eyes. "But I'm not
      going to do that. I <em class="calibre8">will</em> be responsible for getting a
      binding deal with the Muggle Ministry that is to the benefit of
      both our people, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione contemplated this, only a little relieved. "That's
      still an awful lot of responsibility. I wouldn't like to be in that
      kind of position."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's really inconvenient because –" he stopped
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing. Well, there is something. I wanted to ask whether
      you're willing to come along, tomorrow. There are going to be three
      adults to help me with the political aspects, but none of them are
      Muggleborn and I think you could have some good feedback. Besides,
      if it all goes to hell, I think you and Xare may be needed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What?</em> Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, for a start, I'm afraid that there's a reasonable chance
      that Riddle – You-Know-Who – may end up making an appearance. The
      Aurors are doing anything they can to avoid interference, but,
      well... In case they fail, I need someone to get any Muggles who
      may be in the room out of there immediately while Professor
      Dumbledore keeps him distracted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A shiver ran through her body. "You want me to face
      <em class="calibre8">Voldemort</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He winced as she said the name and she felt the shiver in her
      own body too, but he didn't mention it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have faced him several times this year, Hermione," he
      reminded her instead. "You stood up to him in our first Defense
      class. And later, you and Draco tried to get him to ban
      traitors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked down. "I still can't really think of him as the same
      person as... as You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He snorted sadly. "And <em class="calibre8">you</em> at least always thought he
      was evil. I have a lot of trouble with it too." He sighed. "But
      anyway, that's the world we live in. Will you come?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her stomach wrenched. It was <em class="calibre8">scary</em>. Terrifying, even.
      If Voldemort – Quirrell – came, wouldn't she be the single most
      defenseless person in the room?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No,</em> she realized. <em class="calibre8">That would be the
      Muggles.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," she said, hugging her knees. "I'll go. Who else is
      coming?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore," he ticked off. "Pius Thicknesse – he's
      the Minister's Secretary. Lucius Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius Malfoy?" She knew all the stories about the man, and she
      remembered, the ice-cold voice sending her to Azkaban... "Couldn't
      you ask for someone else? Anyone else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I chose to include him, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stared at her best friend. "What in the name of... of I
      don't even know what, possesses you to <em class="calibre8">choose</em> to bring
      along <em class="calibre8">Lucius Malfoy?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held up his hands. "I know he's evil, Hermione, you don't
      need to lecture me on that. He's tortured and killed a <em class="calibre8">lot</em>
      of good people – Dumbledore has done some of that too, mind, but
      not as much, I suspect. Anyway, the reason I'm bringing Lucius
      along is that he will be <em class="calibre8">useful</em>. He will bring valuable
      points which can help us avoid alienating a certain side of the
      political arena, and just his inclusion will already appease a lot
      of powerful people. I couldn't just push him by the sidelines
      without generating heat for the treaty we're going to make. But
      he's under a charm that enables me to kill him at will, so I don't
      think he is likely to do anything that would cause problems."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you kill him if he did?" she asked quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence, for some moments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not," Harry admitted. "But there's a way to twist the
      spell so my choice is not required. If he does something out of
      line, I can order him not to interfere again on pain of death, and
      then if he does, it will happen even if I don't do anything else –
      it's entirely his choice between life and death. And I wouldn't
      necessarily have to <em class="calibre8">kill</em> him; they all swore by their life
      <em class="calibre8">and magic</em>. I can burn the magic out of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded. "That's something at least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He also suggested I bring Draco," he added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Draco?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure I want to do it. It just seems like an unnecessary
      risk – the problem is that to Lucius it doesn't seem that
      dangerous. With Dumbledore protecting the group, we don't really
      have much to fear from the side of Muggles, and he doesn't see
      Riddle as a threat. In fact, he's probably right about that – with
      regards to Draco, at least. Even if Riddle ends up interfering, we
      already know from before that he doesn't want Draco dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why would you bring him in the first place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Partly as balance for you – three children and three adults
      looks better than two children and three adults, especially if one
      of the children is the main negotiator. But more importantly, for
      political reasons. Draco is likely to have some useful ideas to add
      to the discussion, and if he manages to make a good impression
      tomorrow, it will really help his future influence. Lucius wants
      that, of course – and I'll lose some of his support if I exclude
      Draco while still including you – but I actually agree on the point
      that it's useful. If I can help putting Draco into a position of
      future power, would that be worth a relatively small risk, if he
      himself is willing to take it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shifted against the wall. "You want to put Draco into
      power?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded. "He's been trained in politics for all his life. He
      knows all the machinations and the people, and, by virtue of his
      birth, automatically comes with a fair bit of support from the
      older families. In a few years, he'll be perfectly placed to lead
      Magical Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt her heart skip a beat at the prospect. "Harry, I'm not
      sure this is a good idea." She'd been... conflicted about him,
      lately. He <em class="calibre8">had</em> been helping her, had actually confessed
      under Veritaserum that he hadn't been plotting anything sinister.
      He couldn't be <em class="calibre8">completely</em> bad, and yet... "Do you know
      what he said – do you have any idea –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't," she said firmly. "You cannot possible know what
      he's been telling the other Slytherins he would do to me, given the
      chance." She hadn't told him, when Daphne had quietly informed her,
      because it was just too horrible to talk about. But if Harry was
      really convinced that Draco was a good person, good enough to put
      in charge of the entire country, she <em class="calibre8">had</em> to warn him,
      before he made a big mistake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a short pause. Then Harry nodded. "I can make a good
      guess. Rape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, shaking. "And then Obliviate me, and do it
      <em class="calibre8">again</em>. He said he'd make it his <em class="calibre8">Christmas
      Treat</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes. "When was this? At the start of the
      year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," she said, trembling, as the conversation came
      back to her. Daphne had told her only after Draco had picked her up
      from the ground, but the girl hadn't named a period. "Does it
      matter? Don't say it's because he didn't know me at the time, that
      he turned nicer when he did, because that makes no difference. If
      you can think of doing that to someone, whether you know them or
      not, you're <em class="calibre8">evil</em>, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't going to," he said, scrabbling up to sit next to her
      so he could put an arm around her and give her a comforting hug. "I
      know he thought like that at the beginning of the school year. He
      told me he was planning to do it to – to a ten-year-old girl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you still made friends with him? And want to put him in
      charge?" Her voice rose to a shriek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, it's not like that. I don't think he changed just
      because he got to know you, although that certainly helped. I think
      he just got a lot better and more aware of other people's value
      over the year. I may have helped a little, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She frowned at him. "You really think you can change someone
      like <em class="calibre8">that</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was never really a bad <em class="calibre8">person</em>, Hermione. He was
      just raised to think that, well, that that sort of thing is what
      the cool kids do when they grow up. He's spent the first eleven
      years of his life being raised by <em class="calibre8">Death Eaters</em>! Of course
      he's going to have some twisted ideas. It would've required a
      supernatural intervention for him to have <em class="calibre8">your</em> morality
      given <em class="calibre8">his</em> environment –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione bit her lip. It was such a stupid, such a
      <em class="calibre8">Harry</em> explanation. The situation was so <em class="calibre8">obvious</em>.
      If you fantasized and bragged about raping little girls, you were a
      rotten person inside, plain and simple. It didn't really help if
      you were from a family of Death Eaters and considered it completely
      normal that your father regularly murdered people either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco <em class="calibre8">had</em> helped her. He'd started working together
      with her for his own sake, but when he'd caught her on that roof,
      she'd had to tell him twice to let her go. And then he'd picked her
      up from the ground, and he had testified under Veritaserum that it
      <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em> been a plot, he really <em class="calibre8">had</em> just been kind
      – or at least trying to show the Slytherins a better way, as Harry
      had told her. And then, in that last trial, he had willingly come
      to her and Harry's aid, <em class="calibre8">asked</em> for Veritaserum and
      testified that he believed in her innocence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I always thought good and evil were <em class="calibre8">easy</em>," she
      complained quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "Yeah, that's probably not entirely true in the
      real world. But is it really so hard to believe that people can
      change?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sank bank in his comforting arm. "No. I guess not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They sat in silence for a while. Finally, she got up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had better get back. The whole escape plan in Grimmauld Place
      is focused around me, so the others feel a lot safer when I'm
      there. But this office is not phoenix-blocked, is it?" He shook his
      head. "Good. Just send me your Patronus when you need me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the door, she turned around one more time. She couldn't quite
      put in words everything she wanted to say, all her worries of
      <em class="calibre8">everything</em> that could go wrong, but she couldn't just
      leave either. He looked so tired and burdened, this ruler of the
      country, as he pulled himself up and sat behind his desk to receive
      whatever important visitor would come next. And yet she knew only
      she was allowed to see him like that; soon enough he'd be wearing
      the cool mask again in which he had twice faced down the
      Wizengamot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take care, Harry," was all she knew how to say.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">He watched her go, nervous but determined to do what she could
      to make things better, the phoenix on her shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hadn't told her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had <em class="calibre8">wanted</em> to tell her what he'd done to her today.
      She had the right to know, if anyone. But she couldn't guard her
      mind, and she might be in mortal danger if anyone of ill intent
      should find out about the arrangements he made in a private meeting
      with the manager of Gringotts in the afternoon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had taken him only minutes to figure it out, after Lord
      Malfoy had left: the obvious way to end a House Vow was to end the
      bloodline. And it was not too long after <em class="calibre8">that</em> when
      Thicknesse had sought him out to discuss the rather great
      likelihood that the peace negotiations would take too long to
      resolve in one go, and the question of what should happen if he
      died in between sessions. There would always be some who might be
      less than pleased with his choices in the first session, so the
      number of people wanting to kill him was likely to go up
      astronomically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both questions had the same solution: naming an heir. If he
      died, the heir would inherit any magical family effects, such as
      the bond, and that would work even if it wasn't a blood-heir. Pius
      Thicknesse would adapt the contract to specify the "Head of House
      Potter" as negotiator, without specifically giving a name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had made a list of possible heirs, who would inherit under
      the circumstance that he would die childless. Amelia Bones was at
      the top of the list, along with a number of other sensible,
      powerful witches and wizards, who would likely be able to ward off
      attacks on their person. He had chosen not to reveal the names on
      the list; the goblins would reveal the <em class="calibre8">length</em> if anyone
      should ask, but not the contents. That, hopefully, would stop
      people from killing him, as his enemies could not hope to get him
      <em class="calibre8">and</em> all of his potential heirs who might be even worse.
      Even if they did, it would mean that at least the negotiations
      would fall to a competent person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And in his will, he had left every single one of these people a
      letter, to be given only if they inherited, instructing them to let
      Hermione Granger take the final decisions, but never to let anyone
      know about this for the sake of her safety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were other things in his will, Open lines of research that
      he thought should be pursued. Money to be given to his father,
      Hermione, and to science funds. A wish to be indefinitely preserved
      under the anti-decomposition charm until they could revive him,
      even if the possibility of <em class="calibre8">that</em> might depend on the
      particulars of his death. Once he had started to write things up,
      there had been a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of aspects to think of, even though
      thinking of the possibility was so uncomfortable that he really
      <em class="calibre8">didn't want to</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, he had. He wasn't <em class="calibre8">planning</em> to get himself
      killed, of course. But he had to be prepared.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Friday May 1st 1992, 2:03am.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Don't be so sure that there will be other choices beyond
      this one. There is no road-sign set, to mark the place of your last
      chance to turn back. If you refuse one chance will you not refuse
      others? It may be that your fate is already sealed, even by doing
      this one thing.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned and twisted in his sleep, on the camping bed Dobby
      had brought him, while a trio of Aurors still stood guard outside
      his door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Professor Quirrell is sucking you into the darkness, Harry,
      he really is.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">While he was awake, he could rationalize what he was doing.
      Promise himself to follow Hermione's morality. Make plans for the
      future of the world – a good, humane future, with all darkness
      eventually banished to oblivion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I wonder whether there will come a day when I regret not
      killing you when you were in my power, Mr. Potter.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But his half-sleeping mind kept bringing back warnings. Kept
      reminding him of all his mistakes that might just mark the fork in
      the road to his becoming a Dark Lord greater and more terrible even
      than Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Upon my life and magic, I swear service to the House of
      Potter –</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Half asleep, half dreaming, Harry's mind played out a vision of
      the masses bowing down to him, hailing him as their leader.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he was about to betray them all.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
