<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 83: Following the Phoenix, Pt 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 83: Following the Phoenix, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
  
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them were on their 5,609th game of Dragon Poker.
      (They had taken a break and tried some other games a few weeks
      back, but they had quickly returned to Dragon Poker, as centuries
      of Aurors had before them. It was simply the only card game
      interesting enough to play for this long.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li's mind was not on the game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had all read the Daily Prophet this morning, of course.
      Bahry had snorted derisively, saying that even the Wizengamot
      wouldn't do something <em class="calibre8">that</em> stupid. There was an age limit
      for a reason, and breaking it would sink Britain's international
      esteem to an all-time low. And that would have
      <em class="calibre8">consequences</em>. The Lords and Ladies of the Wizengamot might
      not care much about the suffering of lower beings than themselves,
      but they did care about their profit margins being decreased. And
      so, they had continued their daily routine, none of them raising
      the subject again as though by an unspoken agreement. But, Li
      noticed, Gerard McCusker was not playing much better than he was.
      And while Bahry was cashing in win after win – the old Auror was
      hard to faze – even he still glanced at the clock every once in a
      while.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three booms sounded in the room. The signal of an incoming
      prisoner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li exchanged a glance with the others and jabbed his wand at the
      screens showing the surroundings of the prison, magnifying one of
      them. There, on the north side, they could see the waters, where a
      boat with the prisoner and three guarding Aurors was approaching.
      The boat was still too distant to make out any faces, but even so,
      the prisoner definitely looked very small.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They can't be serious," McCusker muttered, as Li felt a lump in
      his throat. Bahry just swore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boat came nearer, and the Aurors inside it dragged their
      prisoner onto the little platform on the island, which lifted up
      into the air, following its standard path to the roof entrance.
      Dementors rose up as their new prey was carried over the pit, held
      at bay by the Aurors' Dementors but coming close enough to hungrily
      investigate the prisoner all the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three knocks. McCusker opened the door, and the Aurors came in.
      With them...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li's heart wrenched in sympathy as he looked at the little girl.
      Was <em class="calibre8">this</em> the mad first-year child who had come up with a
      gruesome plan to murder a schoolmate? She looked so... normal. And
      so scared. She was staring around with big brown eyes, huddling as
      close to the Patronuses as the ropes binding her would let her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Gawain Robards, the eldest and therefore de facto leader
      of the delivering trio, waved his wand and the girl was pushed into
      a corner. Li silently ordered his badger to stick to that part of
      the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bahry cast a spell of silence to avoid the prisoner overhearing
      anything. "Auror Robards, please report." From the break-room, the
      off-duty Aurors looked in. Bahry irritably waved them over. "We
      would like to know what in the name of Merlin is going on
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Wizengamot have acknowledged that the girl owes a blood
      debt to the house of Malfoy," Robards spoke calmly, "and have
      consequently sentenced her to ten years in Azkaban. We have come to
      deliver her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And did the <em class="calibre8">Wizengamot</em>" – Bahry spat the word as
      though it was a curse – "bother to name a level?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They argued to have her judged as an adult, but did not
      explicitly name a level. Director Bones suggests not to be
      excessive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li glanced at the girl. What would it matter? She would never
      last ten years; she wouldn't even last ten months. Putting her
      further from the Dementors would only prolong her suffering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's sick," Leela McGonagall, the newest of the off-duty
      trio, said flatly (she was a distant relation, and everyone called
      her Leela because it would just feel wrong otherwise). "I don't
      mind giving criminals what they deserve, but that presumes they're
      mature enough to know what they're doing. I can't <em class="calibre8">believe</em>
      the Wizengamot did this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know the worst of it," Marc Kleiner, the second of
      the guarding Aurors, said bitterly. "You should have heard her
      confession. She was horrified by what she did. And you should have
      heard Albus Dumbledore. And what she said in the end..." He wiped
      his sleeve over his face. "Obviously she's mad, and too dangerous
      to be allowed near other children. But I thought they'd lock her up
      in a closed ward of St. Mungo's or something. She doesn't deserve
      <em class="calibre8">this</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not our place to judge that," Gawain Robards said sharply.
      "The Wizengamot have spoken. We leave her in your custody now."
      With that, he nodded to the guarding Aurors, and stepped up to the
      door, followed by the third Auror, a pale young man who seemed to
      want to get away from this place as soon as possible. Marc, with a
      last pitying look on the young witch, followed them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Screw that," Leela said, when they were gone. "I didn't sign up
      to feed small children to the Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You signed up to feed any criminal to the Dementors you're told
      to," Bahry bit at her. "She's not some innocent little puppet, no
      matter how cute she looks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even so," Gerard said. "I agree with Leela. I don't mind
      thieves and murderers being here, that is what it's for. But
      this... it just feels wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bahry ran his hand through his white hairs. "Look. I don't like
      this any better than you do, but you've got to play the hand you're
      dealt. The girl has been remanded to our custody, and we'll just
      have to make the best of it." He turned to Li. "Mike, are you
      willing to take her to her cell, or shall I do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Auror Li sighed. This was the hardest part of their
      duties, worse than the feeding or vanishing the contents of the
      toilet buckets, worse even than cleaning out the corpses of
      prisoners who had served their time. And it was his turn. Gerard
      had already filled in for him when he had had to stay at home
      because his youngest had Glowpox last week. "It's my turn, isn't
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bahry nodded. "Cell block 2 in B spiral is free," he suggested.
      Li nodded slowly, understanding the hint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cells in the highest levels were normally used for
      short-term prisoners: petty thieves, crooks, sometimes people who
      couldn't keep up with their debt repayments and needed a sharp
      reminder of the consequences of laxness. Each block held half a
      dozen cells, which were simply filled up from left to right, unless
      a pair of prisoners came in who should be kept separate. Several
      cells in the other blocks were also free at the moment, so there
      really was no reason for the girl to get a block of her own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No reason at all, unless they didn't want the other prisoners to
      see what they were doing with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They could add some chocolate to her meals, perhaps even masking
      the flavor so she herself wouldn't know in case she got visitors.
      Or they could be lax when checking any visitors she got for
      chocolate supplies. They could even Stun her occasionally.
      Unconsciousness wouldn't last near Dementors; eventually it would
      turn into a restless sleep and then you woke up drained and hurt.
      However, for a few hours, it could at least provide a relief from
      suffering. And maybe in a while, if Lord Malfoy didn't cave in to
      international pressure to release her, they could "forget" to feed
      her, and ease her into a merciful death. It wasn't like she was
      going to live through her sentence anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed and stepped toward the child.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you walk? Or should I carry you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-walk," she squeaked. Li sent his Patronus ahead to guide the
      way, and slowly, reluctantly, she stepped forward. He followed
      behind, keeping his wand pointed at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stumbled several times, walking awkwardly in the ropes that
      bound her, and when they were just in the corridor, she fell over.
      He caught her with a silent <em class="calibre8">Wingardium Leviosa</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here." With a flick of his wand, the ropes disappeared. This
      <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> part of the protocol, but the prisoner was a child,
      unarmed, and obviously rather tired to boot. Plus, even in the
      extremely unlikely event that she managed to overpower him somehow,
      she'd still be in Azkaban, and the Dementors knew her as their
      prey. She gave him a brief, grateful look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your name is Hermione, isn't it?" he asked. She nodded
      silently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Li."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was he doing? It was the first rule any Auror new to
      Azkaban was taught: do not fraternize with the prisoners. If you
      started thinking of them as <em class="calibre8">people</em>, the whole thing became
      a lot worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well. It was a bit late for that anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They descended the stairs (there were no cells directly by the
      Auror quarters; it would be too unpleasant to hear the prisoners
      all the time). Nearby, behind the stone walls, someone was sobbing.
      It was hard to make out the words here, and Li didn't try; he was
      all too used to it. But the girl, Hermione, stopped in her tracks,
      shaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li sighed silently, and gave her a gentle push with his magic.
      "Come."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She proceeded, then, down into the corridor, where the voice
      became clearer: "– no, no, no! Please, I can't!" Hermione looked
      like she desperately wanted to run away, and Li held his wand
      firmly in case it would be necessary to stop her. But no, she kept
      walking. And Li followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sobbing sounds stopped as the child, the Auror, and most
      importantly the Patronus entered the corridor and slowly moved
      toward the large metal door, and then past it. And then it started
      again, but more distantly. It was probably the prisoner in the
      leftmost cell, Li thought. The crook who had been brought in last
      week.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second block of cells would be mercifully empty. They came
      to the door, and halted. Li unlocked it with a wave of his wand,
      and led Hermione to the rightmost cell, far enough from the other
      cell block to not hear any screams other than her own. She sat down
      on the stone bench that was the only piece of furniture in the
      cell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now it was time for Li to go back to the Auror quarters, and
      leave Hermione to the Dementors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">... He couldn't do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Many times before, he had wondered whether he should stop
      working in Azkaban. He hated this place, and more than anything he
      hated taking human beings to their cell – criminals, but still –
      and then watching them dwindle, day by day, ignoring their begging
      as he fed them and cleaned their cells, until he could finally
      release the huddling piles of misery they were reduced to at the
      end of their sentence. If they were even still alive. He didn't
      know how many made a full recovery afterwards – probably a fair few
      of the short-term prisoners did – but he could guess the number was
      low. The recidivism rate was very close to zero, at least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Why am I still here?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had a family to maintain. His squib wife, Lixue, had little
      chance of finding work in the wizarding world. Su and Kao were
      young, and coping with all their childhood diseases was expensive.
      Next year ,Su would be old enough to go to school, and need books,
      uniforms and a wand. Add to that Lixue's parents, who were living
      in, too old and uncomfortable with British culture to find work,
      but who helped to raise the children with traditional values...
      There was no way he could give them all the standard of living they
      deserved, if he earned only the standard Auror salary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And did he even want to be an Auror anymore? If he resigned from
      Azkaban because he didn't want to deal with what happened to the
      prisoners, could he justify bringing people in instead?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe he could find other work... a competent ex-Auror could
      probably get a position as a guard to a wealthy House. Or perhaps
      Hogwarts would need a dueling instructor next year. (He was not, of
      course, mad enough to consider applying as Defense Professor when
      the position opened up again.) The children were getting older,
      too; maybe Lixue, who had spent years educating their daughter and
      son, could find a job in the Muggle world, and leave Kao's further
      education to her parents... It wouldn't earn Galleons, but it would
      still put bread on the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Lixue could never find a job as a teacher, even if she was
      smart and patient and knew all the techniques to get children to
      pay attention, because she didn't have <em class="calibre8">qualifications</em>,
      Muggles always wanted to see certificates. Without so much as a
      high school diploma, she could at best work in a shop or something
      like that, and could he ask that of her? Her parents would never
      forgive him for taking the selfish choice, putting so much on them
      and their daughter, and reducing the family to relative poverty.
      They would need to buy Su's books and robes second-hand, or worse,
      dishonor themselves by applying for the Hogwarts book fund. And
      what was to say he could even find other work? Quiting now, without
      having any other options lined up, would be the height of
      irresponsibility. And it wouldn't even help this child, Hermione,
      in the slightest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned away then, locking the grate to the cell, and locking
      the metal door to the cell block behind him. He fled back to the
      command room as a deep feeling of sadness settled in his heart.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva was lying on her bed, silent tears streaming down her
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hermione.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The clever, eager girl, who had read through all her parents'
      books (cookbooks and encyclopedias alike) and all the
      age-appropriate material in the local library before learning that
      she was a witch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The enthusiastic young witch she had taken to Diagon Alley, who
      had asked so many clever questions while her father smiled
      indulgently and her mother looked vaguely worried, and who had been
      almost impossible to drag away from the bookshop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bright student who had learned all her books by heart before
      even setting foot into Hogwarts, was top of all her classes, and
      still studied almost every hour of every day, already trying
      second- and third-year spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sweet child who spent all the time that she <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em>
      studying helping others, friends or just fellow students who hadn't
      even been nice to her, and always explained to the weaker students
      where they went wrong in so patient and kind a way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The general of Sunshine Army, who, she was told,
      <em class="calibre8">listened</em> to the students in her army, and made them
      realize their own potential. Minerva had not liked it when she
      heard that Quirinius had appointed the girl – it was nothing like
      Hermione to fight and strategize against the other students, let
      alone having to play on a level with Draco Malfoy and allowing
      herself to get dragged into Albus's plots – but she had still been
      proud when she heard how Hermione was perceived, and how her
      "soldiers" had flourished under her command, taking initiatives and
      growing in self-respect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The aspiring heroine, who had rallied her fellow students to
      take on the bullying problem in Hogwarts, and kept on fighting to
      help the victims, even when things got out of hand and she found
      herself the target of insults and abuse, even when it seemed like
      she and her friends could all come to terrible harm. The brave girl
      who had stood defiant before Professor Snape (as she had been told
      afterwards), never crying at her unfair treatment, even when all
      Professors who should have protected her looked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The true hero who had gone through a terrible ordeal, been made
      to believe horrible things about herself as part of some dark plot,
      then been forced to live through it all over again in a farce of a
      trial, who had seen her bright future crushed and then had what
      little hope she could have had destroyed by the Headmaster as he
      blocked Harry's clever plan to save her... and who had nevertheless
      found the strength in herself to speak out against her friend's
      bluff. The true hero, who had genuinely been prepared to sacrifice
      herself to save her enemies. And who would by now have been brought
      to Azkaban, where she would be exposed to the darkest creatures in
      the world, reliving her worst memories until she went mad and
      died...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva had canceled all her classes this afternoon, and for the
      next day too. She had locked the door to her office. She didn't
      want to see anyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What on earth was she going to tell Hermione's parents?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a knocking on the door, but she didn't answer. Whether
      it was student or teacher, she wasn't ready to see them. And she
      certainly didn't want to see Albus at the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The knocking continued, and a voice outside yelled something. A
      high voice, as from a young boy. Harry? But he must know that she
      didn't want to be disturbed, that she needed time to mourn. He
      would be in the same situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The knocking carried on insistently, so she finally stood up,
      went into her office and opened the door. And there was Harry. He
      did not look like he had been crying, as she had expected. Instead,
      he was wearing that strange cold, alert look she had sometimes seen
      on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry? What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need an adult's help to rescue Hermione, and I don't think
      the Headmaster is going to do it. Will you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She blinked, taken aback.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry... It's too late, she's gone." At Hermione's age, and as
      sensitive as she had proved to be on the day the students had
      practiced their Patronus Charms, even <em class="calibre8">one</em> day of Dementor
      exposure might destroy the person she had been. A week would almost
      certainly drive her to madness. Ten years... It would be easier for
      the boy to think of his friend as already being dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave her a pitying look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She is <em class="calibre8">not</em> gone. She is merely in Azkaban, and I think
      I can do something about that." He sat down in the chair opposite
      her desk. "Will you sit? It's a bit of an explanation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He seemed so confident. Baffled, she sat down, ignoring the
      gross breach of etiquette of being told to sit in her own office.
      Harry leaned his elbows on the desk and pierced her with a serious
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I was... suspected... of freeing Bellatrix Black from
      Azkaban, I did some thinking. There was good reason to suspect me,
      because I could come up with at least two ways to break someone out
      of Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her mouth opened and closed in shock. <em class="calibre8">Break someone out of
      Azkaban?</em> For a very brief moment, a faint twinge of hope
      stirred in her chest. Then common sense and terror kicked in and
      squashed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you think about it! The only one who has ever managed to
      break someone out of Azkaban is You-Know-Who, and even he almost
      failed!" Albus <em class="calibre8">had</em> said that the breakout had been
      supposed to be undetected, that something must have gone wrong.
      "The penalty for trying to escape is the <em class="calibre8">Dementor's Kiss</em>,
      both for the prisoner and whoever is helping them. That's... it's
      too dangerous Harry, for both of you." There were not many fates
      worse than dying in Azkaban, but having your soul destroyed by a
      Dementor was almost certainly one of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't mean that," Harry said carefully. "But I have some
      ideas that might also work to just... protect someone. Keep her
      from being eaten by the Dementors while we work on a way to prove
      her innocence, or at least gather a hundred thousand Galleons. I
      think there should be some decent legal ways of getting her out,
      but making solid plans in that direction will probably take a few
      days, especially if the Defense Professor doesn't get released
      soon. So we have to keep her from going insane, and preferably from
      suffering too much during that time and however long it takes to
      execute the plans."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She found herself staring at the boy. "What did you have in
      mind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure <em class="calibre8">exactly</em>, I'll need more information to
      finalize my ideas. But to get the most obvious possibility out of
      the way... You sent your Patronus to me all the way in Diagon
      Alley. What would happen if you just sent it to Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head. "Nothing. The ability of a Patronus to
      protect the people around it relies on its proximity to the caster.
      I could probably send my Patronus to defend Gryffindor Tower from
      here, but if it goes all the way to Azkaban, it can do little more
      than relay messages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I figured that something like that would be the
      case, or people would have done it already, but it was worth
      checking. Otherwise... Professor are you an Occlumens?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded slowly. Albus had insisted that she learn, after she
      had told him about the prophecy. It would be bad security if anyone
      could just pick the details out of her mind. It wasn't her kind of
      magic, and even after years of training, she would never be a
      perfect Occlumens, but she could make a respectable block.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The penalty for breaking <em class="calibre8">out</em> is the Kiss. What about
      breaking <em class="calibre8">in</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall considered this. "I am not sure. It... it
      doesn't usually come up. I think the official punishment is
      something like a month of jail time, but the Aurors typically let
      you go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Professor Quirrell said something like that when
      I talked to him about it too. Would you be willing to take that
      risk? For Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How could he even ask? "If I could, I would swap with Hermione."
      She sighed. "But how can it help her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a number of plans," he responded calmly. "Not all of
      which I can explain. As for the simplest one, I want her
      Obliviated, to make her forget the memory of the duel with Draco.
      If <em class="calibre8">that</em> is her worst memory, her mind will get stuck on a
      lie. But Professor Dumbledore said that my little... escapade would
      probably be a bad memory to her. If we can get her to dwell on that
      instead, it might help her retain some sanity if all other plans
      fail."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The words hit her like a slap to the face. How could the boy
      talk about it all so calmly? And yet, what he said did make a
      horrible kind of sense. She hadn't even thought about it, but of
      course Hermione, stuck in Azkaban, would, in her mind, repeat the
      memory of her crime over and over, and over. Removing that memory
      while leaving her to the Dementors would not fix much. But perhaps
      it might make her situation a tiny bit better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And your other plans?" Her mouth was dry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Depends. For a start, I may want to give her a wand. Do you
      know what the consequences for that will be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A <em class="calibre8">wand</em>? "She could never use that, the Dementors drain
      your magic!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not if she uses it to cast a Patronus Charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her mind tumbled. If <em class="calibre8">that</em> could be done, why hadn't
      anyone... ah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That wouldn't work. She has to sleep, eventually. And after a
      night near Dementors, no one is able to find a happy enough thought
      to cast a Patronus. Besides," she added, remembering, "Hermione
      couldn't cast the spell, and the Dementors give alarm if one is
      kept up for more than two hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just smiled mysteriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let us assume that that won't be a problem. What will happen to
      her if she is caught with a wand, but can testify under Veritaserum
      that she had no intention of escaping? Would she still get the
      Kiss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not... The only rule prisoners are subject to is not
      to leave their cell or attack the Aurors." Minerva hesitated. The
      guards of Azkaban, as Albus had pointed out to her, were all people
      who could cast the Patronus Charm. They would not be eager to let a
      small child be Kissed... Besides, they would want to know who gave
      her the wand, so at least they'd have to interrogate her, and then
      it would come out that she hadn't been planning escape. "But they
      would find out who gave it to her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would happen to those people, if they were found out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva frowned, considering. There weren't actually any
      <em class="calibre8">laws</em> against leaving items in prisoners' cells, just laws
      against breaking in and trying to help prisoners escape. There was
      simply no <em class="calibre8">point</em> in giving a prisoner anything other than
      chocolate. And she was pretty sure the law against breaking in
      named a maximum penalty. Still, leaving a wand in a prisoner's cell
      was pushing it a little, so they could conceivably be prosecuted
      for attempted prison break anyway. However, Amelia was sympathetic
      to Hermione's plight; the woman had made that very clear during the
      trial, and Minerva had seen the pain in her eyes when the girl was
      convicted. If the Director of Magical Law Enforcement stuck to the
      letter of the law, and accepted Hermione's testimony under
      Veritaserum, then such a crime would not carry more than a few
      months in Azkaban. Harsh enough, but survivable at least for her,
      if not for Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," she said eventually. "<em class="calibre8">Probably</em> not the
      Kiss. But that's a gamble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded grimly. "I don't think there's a high chance of
      being found out if we do this properly, but we have to be prepared
      for all eventualities. Are you willing to go there with me?
      Tonight?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gasped in surprise. <em class="calibre8">Tonight?</em> Taking Harry Potter to
      Azkaban on some plot that she only half-knew, but which sounded
      several degrees more insane than anything even Albus had ever come
      up with? Well yes, if they wanted to save Hermione they had to act
      as soon as they could, but was this really even a possibility?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stared at Harry. He radiated so much confidence... He might
      be a little foolish sometimes, and a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> foolish at other
      times, but he had a heart of gold, and she would trust him to the
      end of the world. He must not be in danger; he was too precious to
      her, and too important to the rest of the world as well. But maybe,
      if she went with him, if it all went to hell, she could take the
      blame, and Harry would come away scot-free.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And if it all went well, if Harry was right, and Hermione
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> be saved...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," she answered firmly. She <em class="calibre8">was</em> Head of House
      Gryffindor, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," said Harry, retrieving a parchment from his pouch. "Then
      here's a couple of things I'll need to know first..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Li was slightly sweaty when he arrived back in the command room,
      where the comforting presence of two Patronuses welcomed him. He
      had run most of the way, but that hadn't been the tiring part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, the much harder thing had been traversing this distance
      without his Patronus. One minute at the highest level of Azkaban
      shouldn't have drained him so, but he was very aware of the
      possible consequences of his sudden decision to leave the badger
      behind, and the Dementors only made that worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The others looked up when he came in and sat down, and a
      surprised look briefly crossed McCusker's face. Bahry just
      shrugged, and dealt him a new hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After nearly five years of serving together, the three of them
      understood each other perfectly, after all.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
