<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 110: Negotiations, Pt 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s30" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 110: Negotiations, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione tensed, ready to whip out her wand and slow the staff's
      momentum before it would cause a national riot by breaking Queen
      Elizabeth's leg, but the precaution was unnecessary. Harry had
      warned her of this move and so she had been prepared, but looking
      to the side, it was quite evident that he had <em class="calibre8">not</em> seen fit
      to inform the others of his plans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy was rapidly moving from wide-eyed shock to
      seething anger. Pius Thicknesse looked like he'd just had a bucket
      of cold water dunked over his head. Draco was staring at Harry in
      absolute horror. Professor Dumbledore did manage to keep smiling
      genially, but the smile definitely looked a little frozen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>Do not react!</span></em> came Harry's silent command.
      <span><em class="calibre8">And compose yourselves! Remember: there is a whole art
      form of manipulating others by allowing them to be dominant over
      you. This is only the start.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>You are playing with fire, Potter!</span></em> Malfoy
      hissed, but he did recover his stature and acted like nothing out
      of the ordinary had happened. So did Thicknesse. Only Draco still
      looked upset, but then, <em class="calibre8">he</em> was the only one who couldn't
      die on the spot for annoying Harry.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The staff fell on the ground before her feet with a gentle
      clatter. The Queen's eyes snapped up to the wizards' faces. Shock,
      anger... only for a brief moment, to be almost instantly replaced
      by complete calm. Only the other young boy's face still betrayed
      his consternation. She could almost think she'd been mistaken about
      the expression on the adults' faces, but she <em class="calibre8">had</em> seen it,
      and the others must have too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could it be that the child was <em class="calibre8">actually</em> in charge? And
      that he had taken a step of this magnitude without consulting his
      companions?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, surely not. The magical government could not be so void of
      common sense as to put their fate in the hands of a teenager,
      especially not without putting checks on him. If they had, they
      would now be very sorry indeed. But it was unlikely. Wizards could
      take on the appearance of anyone they chose; more than likely the
      child was a powerful adult mage with a deeper plan. Everything
      could be an act, and probably was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, this surrender was not promising, not under these
      circumstances. It was too obviously a plot. The question was: who
      or what was the plot against?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She just stopped her hand from moving towards the amulet that
      hung over her heart. The amulet her father had passed to her, the
      reason she had asked the Prime Minister to lead today's mission.
      The amulet which was <em class="calibre8">supposed</em> to give protection against,
      and control over, magic users.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If only she had any clue on how to use it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... you... surrender?" the man who had been introduced as
      John Locker spoke after some long moments of silence. "You will
      remit all magic users to our custody, and cast the spells we ask
      you to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said surrender, sir," Harry said coolly. "Not slavery. As we
      are all humans – and indeed, most of us are British citizens – we
      have rights by national and international law, and your own legal
      code forbids you from discriminating against magic users based
      solely on their ability. But the Ministry of Magic will come under
      your authority, and our people shall be required to abide by your
      laws and courts. We will provide complete transparency as to how
      our world and magic in general function, except in those cases
      where the knowledge would be dangerous, as previously explained.
      You will be able to pass laws restricting magic use, and have our
      magical law enforcement office at your disposal to enforce
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Even without a wand, no Muggle jail could ever hold a
      wizard,</em></span> Thicknesse observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>I know,</span></em> Harry replied. <span><em class="calibre8">So
      they'll need our help. That's what I'm counting on.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">So you're just giving everything away on the
      off-chance you'll be able to bargain back basic rights?</em></span>
      Draco bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>Yes,</span></em> Harry replied acidly. <span><em class="calibre8">And
      if it all goes completely to hell, I'm sure your father won't mind
      shooting me before I sign the treaty. Now will you please stop
      glowering? You're undermining our credibility..</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for doing magic on command," he continued as though the
      brief mental conversation had never taken place. "Slavery is of
      course out of the question, but I imagine that, if you allow it,
      willing witches and wizards could offer their services to Muggles
      for money. To this end, I humbly ask your permission to rebuild our
      school – which was bombed last week – and use it to teach young
      magical children how to use magic responsibly, following the laws
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> impose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>Harry –</span></em> Dumbledore began, and Hermione's
      thoughts flashed back to the man's warnings about magic causing
      widespread poverty in a few generations. Harry didn't respond to
      Dumbledore, but continued smoothly: "although we may want to talk
      about those services with various interest groups, and discuss how
      to set them up without putting people out of jobs, completely
      wrecking the Muggle economy and turning this into a major political
      issue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A woman – Rosaline Munster – bent forward with interest. "What
      kinds of things <em class="calibre8">can</em> you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry beamed brightly. "A fair few. As you already know, there
      are potions to repair or even regrow limbs and skin; it is entirely
      possible that our Healers will also be able to assist with other
      diseases which are currently hard to handle, or at least with
      diagnostics. We have near-instant travel, and while the magical
      expenditure increases both with distance and weight transported, I
      suspect we should still be able to find a way to employ this to
      drastically reduce reliance on fossil fuels. There are magical ways
      to force truth, which could be useful in law enforcement – although
      it would have to be severely restricted for privacy and
      availability reasons. We can ward important government officials
      from magical attacks or impersonification. And, of course, it would
      be most intriguing to see what phoenixes can do for the British
      Space Program."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held up a hand. "<em class="calibre8">However.</em> There are not many of us.
      Thousands to your millions, and the number of qualified Healers,
      Potioneers and Aurors is but a fraction of that. We <em class="calibre8">cannot</em>
      solve all the problems in the Muggle world, not even a small part,
      no matter how much we would like to. I have a list here –" he
      retrieved a scroll of parchment from his robes, "– with a number of
      proposals to limit these issues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">John Locker grimaced. "This is starting to sound a lot less like
      surrender."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Given that you did not see fit to show us this list
      beforehand,</em></span> Malfoy growled, <span><em class="calibre8">I suppose it
      does</em> not <em class="calibre8">contain an independent magical
      government?</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These proposals are in your interest, sir," Harry said
      politely, ignoring Draco's father altogether. "If we allow
      capitalism to take its natural course, it would soon cause wealth
      to flow to a select elite of magic users, wrecking your economy and
      creating enormous friction between those who so happen to be born
      with the talent and those who are not. What is more, if too many
      magical Healers are drawn away to healing Muggle ailments, then
      wizards can no longer be guaranteed magical treatment – which will
      have disastrous consequences for people's willingness to perform
      important but dangerous jobs like guarding dragons or growing
      magical plants, never mind the consequences for potentially lethal
      magical diseases like Glowpox or Spattergroit. Hence the suggestion
      that a council of experts from <em class="calibre8">both</em> our worlds should
      approve any potions given to, or spells performed on, Muggles. For
      example, for magical healing on someone hurt by strictly
      non-magical causes, I would propose a 900% tax, which is
      automatically invested into open research for non-magical cures for
      the same issue. If magical solutions actually manage to cause a
      significant reduction in the need for oil, then the cost saving
      should be invested into the development of sustainable, preferably
      magic-free, energy, and this should be done in close collaboration
      with the countries and companies who now mine oil and gas, so
      nobody loses their job. And truth-potions should be treated with
      <em class="calibre8">at least</em> the same caution as fingerprint evidence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">John Locker snorted. "Reading between the lines there, you want
      to put a close check on any magic that actually gets performed for
      us, and you want a 'council' – presumably your own government – to
      approve any changes. Surrender in name, but no real changes, is
      that your idea?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not quite. None of the items on this list are
      <em class="calibre8">demands</em>," Harry responded, unfazed. "They are
      <em class="calibre8">suggestions</em>, to avoid a public outcry, a mass exodus of
      magic users, or a treaty that <em class="calibre8">seems</em> good but ends up
      accidentally flinging the country back into the Middle Ages or
      destroying the planet. You can simply tell us all to leave your
      country or never use magic here again, although if you want witches
      and wizards to actually enforce this, you will have to make at
      least <em class="calibre8">some</em> allowances. What I am proposing is simply a
      solid debate on how to carry on without destroying <em class="calibre8">both</em>
      our societies." <span><em class="calibre8">And yes, you guys will get to talk
      there.</em></span> "In the end, there probably just aren't enough
      of us to systemically provide object-level improvements, like
      healing potions or instant transportation. We want to look at where
      magic can achieve the most good, and this optimal use will most
      likely be in, or in combination with, scientific research. Magical
      techniques and the knowledge we take for granted might for instance
      be used to build a space elevator, find a way to deal with nuclear
      radiation, figure out how the human body works in order to fix
      aging, discover the gaps in the laws of physics and hopefully even
      figure out how magic works..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He trailed off. Hermione, looking sideways, saw his eyes widen,
      and her wand snapped into her hand almost instantly. She had
      already jumped up when he yelled: "Get out! Hermione! Draco!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She dashed towards the Muggles, yelled "<em class="calibre8">Catena Magnus!</em>"
      as had been drilled into her for the last four days. Waiting only
      just long enough for the shimmering blue chain to appear and bind
      the Muggles, she grabbed the Queen's arm and burned them all to the
      Department of Magical Law Enforcement.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">They arrived in the luxurious room in the DMLE amidst screams
      and outbursts of "<em class="calibre8">What?</em>" and "How dare you –".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry!" Hermione exclaimed. "I think <em class="calibre8">he</em> was
      coming! I had to get you out!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The agreement was no magic on us!" John Locker shouted, even as
      Hillary Toney asked "<em class="calibre8">who</em> was coming?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stepped back, pushing down her panic, trying to find
      words to explain. Of course they wouldn't understand, they didn't
      <em class="calibre8">know</em>... "The dark wizard, the one Harry talked about, he
      was coming. I had to get you away, it was my duty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre8">knew</em> he might attack us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I demand to be brought back!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" She yelled. "He'll kill you!" She had just abducted the
      Queen and several high-level diplomats. It could be enough to cause
      a war, if handled badly, but how could she make them see that it
      had been absolute necessary?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Queen made a calming gesture with her hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How old are you, child?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"T-twelve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how did a young girl like you get roped into this war?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a friend of Harry's," she answered. "I mean, Lord Potter.
      And there's only two people in the country with a phoenix, and so I
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> to come, so I could get any Muggle representatives out
      if You-Know-W- I mean, the dark wizard, should find out what Harry
      was doing and take offense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before the Queen could ask anything else, a woman had appeared
      in the doorway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Miss Granger," she said briskly. "I'm glad you got them all
      out, the man cast anti-Apparition and anti-Phoenix spells only
      moments after. Your Majesty –" she curtsied to the Queen, "–
      honorable representatives, we <em class="calibre8">do</em> apologize for the
      inconvenience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And who are you?" John Locker asked warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am Emmeline Vance, an Auror – you might say senior police
      officer. The dark wizard Lord Potter spoke of has attacked Windsor
      Palace. That's an extraordinary risk for him to take; as we speak,
      our people are guarding the palace with our strongest wards to stop
      him escaping, and he will have to get past the most powerful wizard
      in the world to get out. We hope to have the situation under
      control within the hour, and then, if you are still willing, we
      might be able to resume peace negotiations <em class="calibre8">without</em>
      interference from a powerful madman bent on causing chaos. In the
      meantime, can I offer you some refreshments?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She waved her wand, and four long sofas appeared, as well as a
      grand, throne-like but soft, one-person couch and a child-sized
      cushioned chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, I should like some black tea," the Queen answered
      calmly, sitting down. "With a piece of lemon, please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emmeline Vance nodded, and left the room. Hermione had her
      doubts about the amount of confidence the Senior Auror radiated in
      the presence of their Muggle guests, but it <em class="calibre8">was</em> calming.
      The woman returned within a minute, floating in three large tea
      pots, several slices of lemon, sugar cubes, and ten crystal
      teacups.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Director Bones says that we can channel the television
      broadcast to this room," she offered. "It will take a minute to set
      up or so, but we've got one of our technical people on it. I need
      to go now, but ring the bell if you need anything else, we'll have
      someone over immediately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" John Locker exclaimed, as the woman made to leave. "Are
      we prisoners here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not, sir," Emmeline responded. "You may leave any
      time you want. Miss Granger here will take you wherever you want to
      go." At that, she turned and left. Aurors probably had something
      more important to do than entertaining Muggles, now that Voldemort
      was almost in their hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can take us anywhere?" Hillary Toney asked Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any place I <em class="calibre8">know</em>," Hermione corrected. "I need to at
      least have a photograph. But that's one of the things phoenixes can
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can they go to the moon?" Edward Smith asked with interest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I haven't <em class="calibre8">tried</em>, but I don't see why they
      <em class="calibre8">couldn't</em> –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His eyes lit up. "We will have to try that. Screw the Americans
      and their space program, with instant inter-planetary travel we
      could start colonizing other planets in a decade! That's what this
      Lord Potter boy suggested, wasn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm not sure it's wise to go quite <em class="calibre8">that</em> fast
      –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was interrupted by Harry's voice as, on the wall, a
      high-resolution TV projection appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– figure out how the human body works in order to fix aging,
      discover the gaps in the laws of physics and hopefully even how
      magic works... Get out! Hermione! Draco!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"– figure out how the human body works in order to fix aging,
      discover the gaps in the laws of physics and hopefully even how
      magic works..." He trailed off, his heart sinking as the familiar
      sense came over him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A feeling of doom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get out!" He yelled desperately. Hermione was already jumping
      up. "Hermione! Draco!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a blur of movement Hermione jumped to the Queen as, on his
      other side, a confused Draco fumbled with his portkey ring, the
      wizards behind him sprang to their feet and behind the
      representatives, a man appeared. The feeling of doom intensified,
      just as the Muggles and Hermione disappeared and Draco gasped in
      shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Asian man in black robes was young, and did not
      <em class="calibre8">look</em> like Professor Quirrell, but it was him alright. He
      shouldn't have been able to get through the wards, not without at
      least triggering a warning that someone was casting magic, but
      perhaps he had been there all along? The Aurors had set up wards to
      guarantee that, aside from the six-man negotiation committee and a
      number of Aurors checked with Thieves Downfall, no one magical
      entered within a one-mile radius of the palace, but perhaps a snake
      hidden in a magical pouch, handbag or other assortment from one of
      the representatives could have bypassed those tests... The Muggles
      had been sitting far enough away from the wizards that Harry would
      not have sensed the doom. <em class="calibre8">Damn it, why didn't we</em> test
      <em class="calibre8">for magical items?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Tom," Professor Dumbledore spoke wearily, wand in
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not here for you," the man said dismissively, raising his
      own. "Harry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>Let me talk, please,</span></em> Harry asked.
      <span><em class="calibre8">Draco, can't you get out? Lucius?</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>Apparition is blocked,</span></em> Malfoy spoke
      grimly. <span><em class="calibre8">As are portkeys.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius, protect Draco and maybe see about getting out of here,"
      Harry commanded out loud as he stepped forward towards the enemy,
      biting back against the powerful sense of doom. Lucius couldn't
      help him against his old master, but after Snape had spelled it out
      for him, he at least had some idea on how to keep the man from
      using Lucius against him. "But <em class="calibre8">on your life</em>, do not
      interfere!" He turned to face the former Defense Professor, who
      regarded him coldly. "Hello Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>So are phoenix and time travel,</span></em> Dumbledore
      added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And don't move further, or you won't be in my
      shield.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is not," the man spoke in menacing tones, "what I had in
      mind when I taught you how to lose, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know it <em class="calibre8">looks</em> bad," Harry replied, "but ultimately
      it makes little difference. Muggles understand how much magic can
      offer them, and will easily grant liberties in exchange for the
      protection, healing and insights into the workings of the universe
      that we can offer. And if it <em class="calibre8">doesn't</em> work out for us, we
      can just find another country."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>The cameras are still running,</span></em> Dumbledore
      warned him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is more," Harry resumed, "this course of action seems to
      be the best way to achieve lasting peace, not just between Muggle
      and Magical but also hopefully <em class="calibre8">world peace</em>. If we can
      combine magic with science to figure out how nature really works,
      we can collectively transition to a post-scarcity society all the
      sooner. And then –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You haven't got a clue," Riddle interrupted. "Yet you meddle in
      things <em class="calibre8">far</em> above your head. And what makes you even think
      I care?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. He'd been working from the belief that Riddle
      cared a whole lot about the world not getting blown up in a nuclear
      war. He had <em class="calibre8">hoped</em> the Auror protections would manage to
      keep the man out long enough to get to the arrangements he might
      approve of, but apparently, it wouldn't have mattered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You speak passionately of secrets not meant to be shared," the
      man spoke, his ice-cold black eyes boring into Harry's. "You have
      seen, a mere week and a half ago, the consequences of sharing
      dangerous knowledge with those who cannot protect their minds. Five
      days ago, you have witnessed the results of allowing power to slip
      into the hands of those who have not survived the lesser trials.
      <em class="calibre8">And yet</em> you deem it wise to allow naive idiots, tied into
      ideals of openness and institutional structures based around
      publishing results for the world to see, to analyze <em class="calibre8">magic</em>?
      You would squander our safety for some misguided ideal of progress.
      Do you <em class="calibre8">wish</em> to bring about the end of the world? For you
      could hardly be more efficient if you tried!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His wand whipped up, pointed at Harry's heart. "Avada
      Kedavra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry could fully realize what was happening, he was
      forcefully pushed aside and fell over to the ground. Someone –
      Dumbledore or Thicknesse – must have rushed to his defense, but
      Riddle hadn't been aiming at <em class="calibre8">him</em>. At the last moment, his
      wand had twisted upwards and the green light hit Fawkes. The
      fire-bird was engulfed in flames, then fell to the floor as a
      little chick, small, wrinkled and flightless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was hardly even time to think. Dumbledore was already
      shouting a terrible incantation and Pius shot a Stunning Charm at
      Riddle, who half-jumped half-rolled away from where he'd been
      standing, and suddenly the room lit up with a massive white flash.
      A giant white-golden bird sprung from Dumbledore's wand and flung
      itself at Riddle, but he waved his wand and five bright green
      snakes appeared, grabbing and biting at the magical bird. He aimed
      his wand at Pius, and suddenly the man's expression changed and two
      killing curses buried themselves in the ground to Harry's left and
      right. Dumbledore turned and blasted Pius away, and in the opening
      Riddle threw <em class="calibre8">something</em> at the three of them and an
      enormous explosion tore through the air and through Dumbledore's
      group shield. Dumbledore stood his ground but Harry was blown
      backwards by the force. Something else hit him in the side, and
      before he could respond, heat and pain exploded inside him. He was
      burning, thrown off his feet, his skin ripped away. He crashed into
      a wall and fell down in a crumpled heap, on top of his right leg
      which snapped beneath him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gaaah! <em class="calibre8">Aguamenti!</em>" But there was no response, the
      magic failing him. He looked down at his hand, blackened and
      broken, holding the shattered remains of his
      holly-and-phoenix-feather wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A splash of water from Dumbledore dowsed the fire from his
      robes. Riddle paused briefly, apparently surveying the damage he'd
      managed to do. Fawkes and Thicknesse were out of the fight, Harry
      was wounded and magicless, and Malfoy, under orders of
      non-interference, had crawled into a distant corner where he
      protected Draco with his own body. Dumbledore stepped in front and
      a little to the right of Harry, his wand ready. Riddle smirked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's keep this between you and I, shall we, Albus? It's been a
      while since I had a decent duel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope you enjoy it," Albus Dumbledore said coldly. "For it
      will be your last one, Tom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh will it?" The dark-robed man smiled pleasantly, as though
      they were having a friendly conversation over dinner rather than a
      duel to the death. "You are not as young and sprightly as you once
      were, old man. Can you still pull twenty hours, do you think? And
      can you spare the energy to defend others as well as yourself?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
