<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 111: Negotiations, Pt 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s31" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 111: Negotiations, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Shouts rent the air in the DMLE survey room as the dark-cloaked
      wizard appeared. "Hello Tom," Albus's voice spoke on the
      screen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's him!" Amelia yelled. "Scrimgeour, surround the castle. Get
      any Muggles out of the way, but <em class="calibre8">do not hurt them</em>. We are
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> going to let the bastard get away this time! Emmeline,
      handle the Muggles with Granger before they get upset. Shacklebolt,
      get me the status on those wards! Komodo, stand ready to break
      in!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone jumped into movement except for Moody, who kept
      surveying the screens. The main one showed the view from four of
      the Muggle cameras, while three screens on each side of the room
      detailed each of the scrying wards. The Muggle ones were better
      positioned to give an overview of everything that was going on –
      and more importantly, they showed what the Muggles were most likely
      seeing – which was why they'd brought in Muggleborn Maria Ackerley
      to tap some of them and channel their output to the DMLE.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take long for Kingsley Shacklebolt to return with his
      report. "Looks like he caused a magical disturbance the moment he
      appeared, and the magic interfered with our anti-Apparition and
      anti-portkey wards, which caused them to fall back to the basics,
      losing the exceptions. That's why Malfoy could not get out, but
      Granger could – there were no anti-phoenix wards yet, so his magic
      didn't affect them. We got the control back now and reopened the
      exceptions, but he's already added complete wards of his own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we stop him from dropping our wards?" She asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should be, Madam. He could <em class="calibre8">interfere</em> with them, but
      that only made them stronger. Removing them altogether or even
      punching through would require a lot of power, and we've got thirty
      Aurors reinforcing those wards. With Dumbledore fighting him, I
      can't see it happening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent. See about piercing his wards, but keep ours up." She
      stared viciously at the figure on the screen. <em class="calibre8">This will be your
      last mistake, Voldemort.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A white blast lit up the screens, and then all four Muggle
      camera views dulled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That must have been deliberate," Ackerley observed, trembling.
      "He doesn't want Muggles to see what he's doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I concur. But the Muggle broadcast has a delay, doesn't it?"
      Amelia asked, thoughtfully. It was perhaps not top priority, but
      she had already set her people on the important tasks, and there
      were consequences to everything. Keeping the Muggles in the dark
      was not likely to be in their interest now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About five minutes," Maria nodded. "I suspect they didn't want
      to submit it live so they can shift between camera views, and
      perhaps give warnings if their representatives are unexpectedly
      killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emmeline Vance rushed in from the next room, where the girl
      would have taken the Queen and representatives. "I <em class="calibre8">think</em> I
      calmed them down, but they're not happy. Can we send the footage
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not now," Amelia snapped. "Maria, can you send our own view
      back over those camera connections?" Maria nodded, sweating, and
      already started muttering enchantments. A witch living primarily in
      the Muggle world, the woman had been known to the DMLE only as a
      miscreant who had received a formal reprimand for enchanting Muggle
      artifacts a few years back. Fortunately, it seemed that from her
      Muggle job she was at least a little used to working under
      pressure. "Use the Dumbledore, Malfoy, Potter and Granger views –
      the last one so they can see their Queen is safe. The technical
      Muggles can figure out what to do with those images."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to Emmeline. "We'll set up a delayed screen for the
      representatives once that is accomplished. Are you almost done? I
      may need you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I promised them tea, but that shouldn't take long. Granger can
      take it from there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shoo, then."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Blasts of lights in all colors flew around the room. The
      white-golden bird Dumbledore had conjured snatched up another one
      of the snakes, as Dumbledore's spell <em class="calibre8">just</em> missed Riddle
      and harmlessly exploded against an overthrown socket, with a
      gong-like sound. Harry himself lay in a corner, protected by a
      shield from Dumbledore, trying to get his thoughts straight despite
      the pains in various parts of his body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What is Riddle doing?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A burst of magic struck three feet away from him, collapsing the
      shield and blasting him further against the wall. Blood trickled
      down his face, even as a quick charm from Dumbledore's wand healed
      the wound and numbed the pain. Riddle hadn't aimed a spell at him,
      he still couldn't, but he'd thrown some kind of magical item.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It would appear,</em> Slytherin suggested dryly, <em class="calibre8">that he
      is trying to kill us.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Didn't we believe that that was completely against his
      plans?</em> Hufflepuff asked timidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We believed many things,</em> Ravenclaw pointed out.
      <em class="calibre8">Perhaps it is time to reevaluate them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Riddle pointed his wand at a chair near Harry, which suddenly
      evaporated. Almost instantly, Harry's head was surrounded by a
      Bubblehead Charm. A transfigured gas?)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">All right,</em> Harry thought. He had believed that Riddle
      feared another world war. Using nuclear weapons, Muggles could
      destroy the earth and drag wizards down in their demise. Riddle,
      however, acted as though this was <em class="calibre8">not</em> a concern to him.
      Perhaps it was a ploy, but now that Harry actually <em class="calibre8">thought</em>
      about it...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If you're a rational person at the height of the cold war,
      wondering how to stop global thermonuclear warfare, the obvious
      solution is</em> not <em class="calibre8">to execute a convoluted plan where you set
      up a villain, create a hero for everyone to follow, conquer the
      world and have everyone live peacefully ever after. You would</em>
      definitely <em class="calibre8">not continue to drag your feet on this project for
      twenty years while every single day can bring the wholesale
      destruction of the earth.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco yelped as his father flung the two of them out of the way
      of a ray of green light that had been shot in their direction.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was amazing how obvious that one was in hindsight. Harry had
      <em class="calibre8">actually considered</em> sending Muggleborns around military
      bases to avoid nuclear weapons getting launched; if he could think
      of that, someone like Quirrell had either done it several decades
      ago, or come up with something better. Precautions like that might
      be discovered after a single nuclear test that he didn't know about
      in advance, but since a wizard of Dumbledore's caliber was
      demonstrably able to divert a nuclear missile, it might be enough
      to set up a warning system to at least know when and where missiles
      were about to strike. Or for that matter, if you wanted to avoid
      discovery, you could put an Imperius Curse on all the people
      responsible for launching those things. Due to democratic processes
      the actual leaders would change regularly, but the people on the
      ground might not. It would be entirely natural for Riddle to place
      someone like Stanislav Petrov under the Imperius – in fact, it was
      completely plausible that he <em class="calibre8">had</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(The shield around Harry was broken again, and Harry felt a
      sharp sting as his shoulder was hit by an ordinary bullet.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So where does this put us?</em> Slytherin questioned as
      Harry bit back against the pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He had the war under control, but he still had other
      fears,</em> Ravenclaw suggested. <em class="calibre8">There are quite a few ways to
      destroy the earth, or at least humanity. Pollution, malevolent AI,
      genetically engineered bacteria ending up in the food supply, not
      to mention the lump sum of "everything else we wouldn't even think
      about". There's just no telling what scientists are going to
      do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He needed to throttle innovation,</em> Slytherin nodded
      thoughtfully. <em class="calibre8">Or at least to push new developments into the
      right direction, and make sure they were done by people who
      understand how to manage power. Given that this is the exact
      opposite of what we just proposed doing, he may have concluded that
      we are a lousy pawn.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(The ceiling shook and cracked, and then the wall Harry was
      resting against half-collapsed. He tried to push himself aside but
      he was too weak; he had no hope of succeeding. Stones fell all over
      his body and legs, cutting and bruising, but at least bounced off
      the Bubblehead.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I still think we don't have the complete picture here,</em>
      Ravenclaw observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">In case you haven't noticed, we're dying,</em> Harry's
      common sense snapped. <em class="calibre8">Perhaps we should get to the finer points
      of the twenty-year plan</em> after <em class="calibre8">we do something about
      that?</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Another flash of white light completely obscured their vision on
      the screens. The battle was every bit as spectacular as the
      legendary duel between Dumbledore and Grindelwald was said to have
      been, so Amelia had had to ban everyone who wasn't actually useful
      from the DMLE premises where they tried to watch. They would get to
      see it afterwards anyway, even without judicious copying of
      omni-oculars: the Muggles had unquestioningly accepted the wizard
      coverage of the event, and she had learned, in the past two weeks,
      about such things as video recorders. Although they might not get
      to see it to the end; the scrying wards on Thicknesse and Potter
      had already failed, and Granger's weren't very useful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the update on the wards?" she barked into her
      mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can get through them," a sweaty Kingsley reported. "but it
      will take time. Which ones should we focus on first?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Phoenix, portkey, Apparition or Time-Turner... Time-Turners were
      too fickle, she couldn't risk that, and if they took down portkey
      or Apparition they'd have to drop their own wards to allow a team
      through. But if they breached the phoenix wards...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Phoenix," she ordered. Dumbledore wouldn't be able to use it –
      his phoenix would take at least a day to recover far enough to
      transport people – but another phoenix user could bring in
      reinforcements and get the boy out. The old meddler was obviously
      stretched too far, trying to protect the child as well as fighting
      his powerful opponent, but he was clearly not willing to sacrifice
      the boy for a greater chance at victory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Should she ask Granger to get ready? Or were there other phoenix
      users available? The situation was far too dangerous to consciously
      send a first-year child into, and she didn't want to risk losing
      both British phoenixes in one day. Besides, the girl wouldn't have
      the magical strength to summon Potter if necessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is Barnok still around?" she asked. None of the foreign phoenix
      casters had been willing to interfere too much in a domestic
      dispute between wizards and Muggles and risk the responsibility of
      dragging their own countries into it, but this was a little
      different. And the Ethiopian wizard, coming from a land with no
      magical schools or authorities at all, was the most unconstrained
      of the phoenix owners.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emmeline jumped up. "I'll get Lesath to contact him."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wondered whether the fight would last long enough for him
      to die a natural death. He was still losing blood, and the agony of
      his wounds was starting to get less, which was probably not a good
      sign. He was also getting a bit whoozy in the head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Think,</em> he ordered himself. <em class="calibre8">Think, think!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had no way of getting out and reaching a healer without help.
      Fawkes was chirping sadly under a pile of rubble somewhere, and
      should be counted out of the fight. Hermione had only been
      instructed to keep the Muggles safe; if she was going to come back
      for him, she probably would have already. Dumbledore was a little
      too preoccupied to heal him. If he asked Malfoy to help, his old
      master would kill him on the spot, so it would have to be a winning
      move to be worth the sacrifice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another blast was stopped just in front of his face as Riddle
      danced around the battleground. Harry could hardly understand all
      that he was seeing – the duel was so far above his head that it was
      difficult to keep track of. An army of Aurors could not have
      touched either fighter as they danced around, shot powerful spells
      at each other and the room, summoned creatures to help, broke the
      rules of transfiguration, flung objects around... Two of the walls
      were down. Parts of the ceiling had caved in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet he could see that Dumbledore was losing. The old wizard was
      fighting defensively most of the time, as he had to defend both
      himself and Harry. His shields could take almost anything, but the
      shields he wrapped around Harry could <em class="calibre8">not</em>, and he couldn't
      safely position himself at places where dodging a Killing Curse
      might get Draco or Harry hit instead. The only saving grace was
      that Riddle could not directly attack Harry with magic, but the
      former Defense Professor seemed to have brought a large supply of
      weapons – both magical and Muggle – to hurl at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he couldn't get out, the only way to survive was to win. He
      couldn't win on power, and he probably couldn't win on brains
      either, but perhaps he had a chance by doing something completely
      unexpected?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Managing to do anything at all in our current state would be
      unexpected,</em> Slytherin pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He still had the communication pin, and since it used the magic
      of the speaker to work, Riddle might not be able to intercept that.
      If he asked Dumbledore to lift him with magic and use him as a
      shield... what would happen?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Interacting with Riddle's magic would likely kill them both. The
      resulting explosion from their magics spinning out of control might
      collapse the castle as well, kill Dumbledore, Lucius and Draco, but
      would <em class="calibre8">hopefully</em> stop short of turning London into a large
      crater in the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Would that be worth it?</em> Riddle intended to save the
      world – quite possibly <em class="calibre8">had</em> saved the world already, maybe
      even more than once – but his goals clashed with Harry's values. If
      Harry was going to die regardless, was it sensible to try dragging
      Riddle along?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No.</em> He <em class="calibre8">can't die.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But if <em class="calibre8">that</em> was true, why was he fighting at all? Why
      didn't he just drop a massive bomb and kill them all? Why wasn't he
      at least sending Killing Curse after Killing Curse at Harry? If
      this was just a body he was possessing, like Quirrell's had been,
      why wouldn't he sacrifice it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I notice that I am confused.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer came to him immediately. <em class="calibre8">He isn't trying to kill
      me. If he was, I'd be dead.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a ruse, it had to be. Riddle could kill them all any
      moment he liked – but he didn't want to kill Harry. He had a deeper
      plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was the plan to get Harry to "kill" him, as he'd intended to do
      all along? Unlikely: if it was, he would have needed to leave Harry
      able to actually <em class="calibre8">do</em> something, not hurl him into a wall
      and break his wand in the first move. It also seemed implausible
      that Riddle would still trust Harry's judgment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps he intended to steal Harry away and keep him around
      under some permanent unconsciousness spell as a horcrux? Or more
      likely, he might still have plans for his traitorous pawn. Would it
      be possible to get full control over Harry's body, negotiate in his
      place and get him to make a few convenient changes to the planned
      treaty that the Wizengamot had already committed to accepting?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Polyjuice Potion</em>, Ravenclaw suggested. <em class="calibre8">The Imperius
      Curse won't work, but maybe Legilimency? Moody did say he was an
      extraordinary Legilimens, he could probably get past our
      shields.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Not without our magics interacting,</em> Slytherin
      contradicted. <em class="calibre8">But there may be other ways, darker rituals. Or
      he could get someone else to use Legilimency on us – Moody almost
      got through our shields in less than a minute, and he is supposedly
      not anywhere</em> near <em class="calibre8">Riddle's league.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That would take time, however,</em> Ravenclaw pointed out.
      <em class="calibre8">Even if he manages to get past Dumbledore, half the DMLE is on
      us, someone is going to break through eventually.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he had a Time-Turner, didn't he? All Riddle had to do was
      abduct Harry, force him to take them both back in time six hours,
      and use the time to get control over Harry. Then he could bring him
      back the moment they left, set off a massive explosion that Harry
      miraculously survived – or indeed, something that Harry would be
      <em class="calibre8">credited</em> for – and continue the negotiations. After his
      old mentor aired his objections to Harry's plans on national
      television, the controlled Harry would have reason to specifically
      add more precautions and steer away from too much science in magic,
      and Riddle could get his plans back on track. It would require a
      lot more oversight in the long run than the original plan of
      letting Harry grow into it, and the people around Harry were bound
      to notice the changes, but it could be made to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dumbledore will not let that happen,</em> Gryffindor pointed
      out. <em class="calibre8">Riddle may well take out the cameras, scrying and the
      Malfoys, but if he abducts us, even briefly, Dumbledore will
      notice, and he'll tell everyone. Remember that he has the elder
      wand, so his shields should be pretty much impenetrable. It's not
      easy to get him out of the way. The Aurors probably will not leave
      Riddle enough time for Dumbledore to fall over in
      exhaustion.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">There is one obvious way to kill Dumbledore,</em> Slytherin
      pointed out. <em class="calibre8">Which conveniently coincides with getting control
      over us. How long do you think we can hold out under torture, to
      prevent ourselves from using the House Vow bond to take his life?
      Perhaps even Legilimency suffices. And we can't drop that bond
      without a working wand.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed, and blinked some of the blood out of his eyes,
      trying to see what was going on. The two wizards were still
      fighting their epic duel. Dumbledore seemed more powerful, but
      Riddle was more ingenuous, and Dumbledore was heavily handicapped
      by having to defend Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to clear his head, getting his conclusions straight.
      He was starting to feel dizzy, and it wasn't helping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">In</em> summary, he decided, <em class="calibre8">he isn't trying to kill me.
      He's putting up a show, to make Dumbledore and the Aurors</em>
      believe <em class="calibre8">that he is trying to kill me. When the opportunity
      arises, he's going to take out the scrying wards, kill or stun
      Draco and then abduct me – the Aurors' wards have an exception for
      me, so he can just throw me a portkey. Then he'll blow up the
      building, break all the wards, escape his host body and join me.
      We'll go back in time, he or his servants spend six hours getting
      control over me, or they just use Polyjuice. In the unlikely event
      that Dumbledore survives the explosion, they'll torture or
      manipulate me into killing him anyway, and then I get portkeyed
      back, or maybe stay where I am and claim I</em> just <em class="calibre8">managed to
      use an emergency portkey before the explosion. The negotiations
      continue, now with a slightly more cowed and cautious Harry, and
      he'll plan from there.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Those are a</em> lot <em class="calibre8">of assumptions,</em> Slytherin put
      forth. <em class="calibre8">There are ridiculously many parts we could be wrong
      about.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It's one explanation for what could be going on,</em>
      Ravenclaw replied. <em class="calibre8">There may be many more. What we know for
      certain is that he isn't fighting all-out, which may suggest that
      his goal is not to kill us. We can also postulate with high
      probability that if he has a dastardly plan, he probably wants to
      execute it without being seen by the entire DMLE, which means he
      has to take out the scrying. So we plan accordingly.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Is the answer that we ought to die?</em> Gryffindor
      wondered. <em class="calibre8">For the sake of the world?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And then what?</em> Slytherin bit. <em class="calibre8">Don't you think he's
      taken that possibility into account? Several of those attacks could
      have killed us already, and if he doesn't hurry up we'll be dead
      from blood loss. He</em> prefers <em class="calibre8">not to kill us, but I don't
      think it's a necessity. If we die, the negotiations carry on with
      Amelia – he probably doesn't know that, but he knows there's going
      to be</em> someone <em class="calibre8">– and he picks up the pieces. If he sets his
      mind to it, he should be able to kill any heir he doesn't like
      within a few days. Maybe not Dumbledore, but</em> he <em class="calibre8">is not on
      the list, and</em> <em class="calibre8">Riddle is hoping to kill him today</em><em class="calibre8">.
      If that doesn't work, he Imperios the Muggles instead. The treaty
      becomes more harmless, and although he doesn't have his puppet to
      rule the world anymore, he'll just start over. Perhaps he'll even
      use Hermione – in fact, given that she</em> does <em class="calibre8">have a
      somewhat obedient nature, she may not be able to resist the
      Imperius Curse. That, or he could possess her. And thus the
      wizarding world gets united behind a strong leader after
      all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned at the mental image of Hermione being forced to
      become a puppet dictator.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Should we lose?</em> Hufflepuff wondered. <em class="calibre8">If this is
      what's going to happen with his</em> backup <em class="calibre8">plan, is the
      original better</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Don't you dare,</em> his inner Hermione protested. <em class="calibre8">He is
      evil, and so are his plans.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">His values are not aligned with ours,</em> Gryffindor
      agreed. <em class="calibre8">He would stall progress and turn Muggles subservient.
      But maybe there's a way to win? Dumbledore is failing because he
      expends too much effort protecting us; if he stops doing that, he
      may be able to kill the body, at least.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This is Professor Quirrell,</em> Slytherin answered.
      <em class="calibre8">He</em> always <em class="calibre8">has a fallback. He knows Dumbledore is
      powerful, and yet he sought a direct confrontation. He wouldn't do
      that if he minds dying. Even if Riddle is superior</em> <em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">–
      which isn't obvious</em></em> <em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">–</em></em> Dumbledore
      could get a lucky shot in. But it probably wouldn't be very hard to
      trigger some magical effect at the point of your death. If that
      effect touches us, it will cause an explosion that will kill us,
      and probably take out Dumbledore and the Malfoys as well. Just how
      impenetrable do we think Dumbledore's shields are? They probably
      couldn't withstand the force of an atomic bomb</em> <em class="calibre8">– can they
      really take the worst Riddle can dish out?<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was only way to stop the disaster, and to at least save
      Hermione and Draco. Riddle had to be <em class="calibre8">gone</em>. Permanently.
      Preferably without setting off any triggers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">How do you kill someone who is immortal?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Were there any Dementors left in the world? If he could get a
      message to the outside world, could someone go back in time and
      spend six hours searching the world for a Dementor, and then get it
      here in time?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unlikely. Governments of all countries had already spent more
      than a week searching for left-over Dementors, without finding any.
      If there were any Dementors left in the world, they wouldn't be
      easy to find.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he <em class="calibre8">broke</em> the Time-Turner, would it cause strange
      happenings that could buy him time?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unpredictable. What was more, if Riddle saw him mess with the
      Time-Turner's shell, he would interfere, quite possibly by killing
      everyone on the spot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was there any way to <em class="calibre8">create</em> Dementors?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't know. There were so many facts in his possession, so
      many books he had read, that his brain would never be able to sort
      through them in time. But there was one person who might be able
      to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a deep breath, Harry plunged himself into his dark
      side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The crystal clarity came over him, ignoring the pain and
      everything around him, as the drowsiness in his head departed.
      Rapidly, the cold started browsing over everything he knew, coolly
      considering the problem at face value.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was <em class="calibre8">his</em> dark side, after all, no matter who it might
      originally have belonged to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Find out a way to go back in time to before Dementors were
      destroyed? Unlikely to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Search Britain for depressing places? Most of the searching had
      been done elsewhere, but the Birmingham Dementor showed that the
      British Isles had not been entirely Dementor-free. He filed that
      notion away for future reference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was there anything said about Dementors that might be relevant?
      He considered all he remembered, but nothing came up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What magical knowledge did he have about death?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only one idea, but it <em class="calibre8">fit</em>. Fit so well that he
      immediately knew that he was right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore danced in front of him again. Harry screwed up his
      eyes, and spoke with a quiet mental voice: <span><em class="calibre8">I have an
      idea. I think I can speak without being intercepted, but if you
      cannot, do not respond.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>He will not hear,</span></em> came the answer, two
      blasts later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Do you know of a ritual that involves a rope and a
      sword, and is used to summon death?</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>I have heard of it,</span></em> the old wizard's
      mental voice replied after some moments. <em class="calibre8"><span>Ah. I see. Do
      you think – ?</span></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>Do what you can to get someone to execute
      it,</span></em> Harry said urgently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Are you sure?</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Quite. Also, beware: he isn't really trying to kill
      me. He may transport me away. He will likely take out the scrying
      first. Sacrifice me if you must. Don't make it obvious that you
      suspect. Kill me yourself if it's the only way to stop him from
      taking me.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a long silence, with three more spells falling and
      Dumbledore both rolling out of the way of a killing curse and
      deflecting a projectile thrown at Harry, and then he replied.
      <span><em class="calibre8">All right.</em></span></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">To Amelia's side, Mad-Eye Moody gasped. She turned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amelia, I need a Time-Turner <em class="calibre8">right now</em>."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Queen startled as on the screen, the battle began. The young
      girl – Hermione – winced as she saw her friend hurled into a wall
      and set on fire. She'd gone completely white after the "Avada
      Kedavra". Elizabeth couldn't help it. Her fingers found the amulet,
      warm and comforting beneath her dress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Do I trust these people?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course not. The battle might easily be a setup, staged for
      the benefit of the audience. The child-king "Lord Potter" was
      hardly believable. And yet, she found herself touched by the young
      girl, an instinctive trust that this person, at least, was genuine.
      Perhaps it was a foolish mistake, but she had to choose
      <em class="calibre8">some</em> side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She made her decision. <em class="calibre8">She</em> had no idea how to use her
      amulet, but perhaps the wizards did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is not looking well," she observed calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," the girl said with a slight tremble in her voice. "And
      this is on a time delay, so it's been going on for a few minutes
      already. For all we know, it might already have ended."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sobering thought. The Queen pulled the amulet out of her
      dress, the blue sapphire glowing with power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have inherited this from my ancestors – it's supposed to give
      the monarch of England both power and control over witches and
      wizards. I don't suppose I could help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl stared at the sapphire with wide eyes, then fumbled for
      her wand. "<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum.</em>"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Albus conjured an invisible message in the air," Moody
      said irritably. "I have to go to Flamel, persuade him to teach me a
      ritual, and then get over there as soon as possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we can't get you there!" Amelia exclaimed. "We still
      haven't taken down the anti-phoenix wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I <em class="calibre8">suggest</em> you hurry up," the pock-marked man
      snarled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A glowing silver woman appeared in the air and spoke in Hermione
      Granger's voice: "Madam Bones, the Queen has a device to give
      'protection from and control over' wizards. Do you know what it
      does? Mr. Thicknesse mentioned something like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emmeline appeared with a crack. "Here's the Time-Turner,
      lock-free!" Moody snatched it from her fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Set some bloody good historians on this, Mad-Eye!" She yelled.
      He nodded grimly and Apparated away.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt like he was slipping into the darkness, but he forced
      himself to remain alert, to watch the battle. How long had it been?
      Five minutes since the start of the fighting? Ten? Long enough to
      put on a show, certainly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now that he knew what to look for, he recognized the signs of
      the subterfuge. Riddle kept attacking him, but the attempts were
      half-hearted; Dumbledore could block them all, although the efforts
      left himself open to attacks and with few opportunities for his own
      attacks. <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore</em> was the intended target, or perhaps
      just his scrying knob. Riddle flung the occasional Killing Curse at
      the old man, but attempted nothing that would be absorbed by his
      shields; instead, he relied on blinding lights, shock waves, gases,
      transfiguration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then suddenly, Dumbledore was flung sideways, apparently without
      any conscious decision of his own, and a ray of green light buried
      itself into the wall behind him. Harry's head snapped to the source
      and he saw Lucius Malfoy, standing upright now, eyes full of
      hatred, sending another Killing Curse at the back of his ally and
      lifelong enemy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without his will or conscious decision, Harry's magic reacted,
      and he felt it lash out over the bond of the House Vow. The noble
      lord gasped, then collapsed onto the floor, killed by Harry's
      command.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">WHAM!</em> An enormous explosion drew his eyes back to the
      ancient wizard. Lucius's attack had done its damage. In the moments
      of distraction, Riddle had hit the old wizard, or the ground
      beneath him, and the man was flung across the room, landing hard
      against a wall. Still his shields protected him, but a thin line of
      blood trickled down his face.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor hadn't been gone a second when he returned, a thin man
      in tow. "Barnok!" He barked. "Get ready!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A woman burst through the door, carrying a paper. "Here's the
      requested data, Madam Bones. But it's <em class="calibre8">really</em> obscure, I
      couldn't find anything more recent than eight centuries, and even
      then it was highly restricted knowledge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia snatched the paper from her hand and read it. Then read
      it again to be sure she hadn't misunderstood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The crowned Monarch of England, apparently, was the official
      ruler of both the Muggle and magical side of the country. Merlin
      himself had created a device to encourage compliance and given it
      to King Arthur. No magics could be wielded against a monarch
      wearing the amulet, and a simple incantation could strip a witch or
      wizard of half their magic while they remained inside England. The
      boundaries of "England" weren't very clear, but Amelia hoped that
      at least London would count.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the perfect solution, if the Queen would cooperate. The
      man fighting Dumbledore was insanely powerful, but with half his
      magic gone, the tide of the battle was likely to turn. There was
      just one downside. If the Queen realized what power she held; if
      they <em class="calibre8">asked</em> her to use it, it would be close to reinstating
      her authority. There was no going back: they would have to follow
      through with Potter's plans for surrender.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gasps in the room revealed something important had happened.
      Looking up, all the screens had gone blank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia made a snap decision. She turned to the human Patronus,
      which was still waiting for her answer. "The Queen must hold the
      amulet and say: '<em class="calibre8">gehæftan Voldemort dwolcræft</em>'. Then do
      the same with 'Tom Riddle' instead of 'Voldemort', just in
      case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She ignored the gasps around her as she said the name.
      "Reinforce the portkey, Apparition and Time-Turner wards, and pour
      everything we can into breaking his anti-phoenix ones! Barnok, be
      ready! Bring those two in, get the children out, and then get back
      here for reinforcements!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'll be damned if I let this bastard get away.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore desperately lifted himself to his feet. He had
      survived, and Harry still lived, but Malfoy's attack had caused
      unrepairable damage: his scrying ward was gone. Without a doubt,
      Malfoy had taken his own and his son's as well. This was what Harry
      had warned him for, the moment Riddle would strike.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He flung another shield in front of Harry, surreptitiously
      anchoring him to the ground, but it wouldn't hold for long, and
      Voldemort would notice. He had to do something more, but he wasn't
      ready. The Aurors had laid the ground work of taking down the
      wards, but Voldemort was powerful, and the man was right, he had
      grown old. He could <em class="calibre8">maybe</em> take down those wards, but
      breaking through well-cast wards took far more power than keeping
      them up; it would expend all his power, and it might not be enough.
      If he failed, he was dead. But then, if he didn't try, they would
      lose too, wouldn't they?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no choice. He had to hope Alastor and Hermione were
      ready, and that his contributions would be enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort <em class="calibre8">stumbled</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus didn't hesitate. Not wasting any time to wonder what was
      going on, he <em class="calibre8">slammed</em> everything he had into the
      anti-phoenix wards.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">With a burst of flame, three men appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A phoenix fluttered over to Harry, as he saw the African wizard
      dash towards Draco. The two men – Remus Lupin and Mad-Eye Moody –
      were chanting in a strange language Harry did not recognize.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle had fallen to his knees, but he was already jumping up,
      wand pointed at the newcomers, his face turned snakelike in fury.
      "<em class="calibre8">Avada –</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Morturi!</em>" Lupin completed, and something burst
      <em class="calibre8">through</em> him, a wound, a hole in the world, darkening and
      expanding. Even as Remus Lupin fell down and the green light from
      Riddle's wand buried itself in the wall behind him, Moody yelled
      "<em class="calibre8">Parma!</em>" and the <em class="calibre8">thing</em> threw itself at
      Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No!</em>" he shouted, backing away, but all the
      anti-Apparition charms were still active. "<em class="calibre8">Avada Kedavra!</em>"
      Harry <em class="calibre8">just</em> saw the green death rushing towards him, then
      planting itself in the wall beside him as Moody summoned him out of
      the way. Riddle's eyes widened in fear as he fell over, shaking,
      and the Dementor grabbed his arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go to Bacon's tree!" he yelled, just before the Dementor closed
      itself over his mouth and with a sucking sound ended his life.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em> Harry thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin's wand flew up from the ground and hovered before him. "A
      Patronus, Potter!" Mad-Eye Moody shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No time to think. He snatched the wand out of the air, emptied
      his mind, brought up the image of the stars, and promised himself
      he would save everyone. "<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It felt wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had just asked his allies to create a Dementor, and had
      willingly caused a man to die. Could he still believe in saving
      everyone, in ending death, after making that choice? Would he ever
      be able to cast a Patronus again?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Dementor, alerted by his cry, flew towards him, the
      answer seemed an obvious <em class="calibre8">no</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then another young boy's voice cried "<em class="calibre8">Expecto
      Patronum!</em>"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, I'm going to die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice emanated from what seemed to be the person holding the
      camera. The magical screen which had been set up for them had been
      limited to single viewpoint, from a slightly moving source at a far
      end of the room. Hermione had had her suspicions about that, but
      she had kept them to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young boy's face looked anxious, as a hand stroked his
      forehead and removed the little knob. "No father! Just stay here,
      we'll be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will not be." The voice from the perspective sounded pained.
      "I have been commanded to strike or die. No matter what I do, I
      will be dead in two minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, father, there has to be a way!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There isn't. Son, listen to me. Forget what I said before. You
      are the next Lord Malfoy, and you will be the greatest one who ever
      lived. Follow your heart and your mind, and don't repeat my
      mistakes. I was wrong... in so many ways. I know that you will do
      better. I love you, son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I – I love you too, father." The boy was crying now, and
      Hermione felt a lump in her throat. She had neither really known
      nor liked Lord Malfoy, but he obviously cared for his son.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't cry, Draco," the voice spoke. "I am free to do as I wish
      at last. And now –" his voice took on a bitter tone "– I will
      avenge your mother. <em class="calibre8">Stupefy.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy sunk backwards, unconscious. Within moments, the angle
      of view had turned around at the battle and was moving towards it.
      One, two shots with roaring incantations, both missed. And then a
      strangled sound, right before the screen went black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence, for a time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It seems to be going rather badly," the Queen said, after a
      while. "Do you know whether my amulet had any effect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Hermione answered helplessly, still wiping away
      her tears. "I could ask Madam Bones, but she's probably very busy.
      Professor Dumbledore is <em class="calibre8">really</em> powerful, though, so they
      may already have won, but –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But so is the other guy, yes. Well, Hermione – that is your
      name, isn't it?" She nodded. "Our people are not entirely helpless
      either. I would appreciate if you could tell us a few things, if
      Lord Potter hasn't sworn you to secrecy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anything you want to know, Your Majesty," she answered.
      "Actually, he isn't my lord, just my friend, and I think you are
      formally the ruler of Magical Britain anyway. That's why you had
      that amulet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Am I? That <em class="calibre8">is</em> convenient." The Queen smiled, a gentle,
      grandmotherly smile. "Then please start by telling me all that you
      know about this dark wizard."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stood, crying both in grief and in joy, by his father's
      body, as his Patronus shielded the Boy-Who-Lived and the
      others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the first time he'd managed to do this version of the
      spell. He had tried over and over, first on that Monday and later
      in his own room. But for all his lessons from Harry, for all his
      attempts, the spell hadn't worked for him. He'd asked Padma about
      it, and Rianne Felthorne and even Cedric, and they'd all said much
      the same, some mumbo-jumbo about defeating death. He'd <em class="calibre8">sort
      of</em> got the idea, but he didn't really see the point. And then
      finally, he'd gone so far as to ask Lesath Lestrange, who had
      simply said "the darkness can be broken". And <em class="calibre8">that</em> made
      sense, with Harry's unique view on the world, but Draco still
      hadn't been able to do it; he couldn't make himself believe in
      Harry's dream-visions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not until his father had told him that he believed in him, and
      that he should follow his own ideas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held the thought, struggling as his Patronus wavered. It was
      a near thing, he knew, and it was taking all his effort to not make
      it go out, but it was all that was standing between his allies and
      the darkness, so he held on.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scrabbled up with some help from Barnok. Most of his
      wounds were gone now, although his ribs still felt cracked, and his
      leg was broken. Phoenixes really were marvelous creatures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stared at Draco, trembling in a corner, maintaining his hold
      on a True Patronus with obvious difficulty, his father's corpse by
      his side. Harry's heart wrenched at the sight. His order to Malfoy,
      and his own magic, had orphaned the boy – it hadn't been his
      intention, and even now Harry couldn't see a way in which he could
      have avoided it, but he felt the responsibility all the same – and
      despite this, Draco could find it in his heart to protect
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody was already casting spells over Riddle's body. Lupin lay
      dead. Barnok and his phoenix hovered near Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm okay," he told the African wizard. "But I'm not sure Draco
      is, and I can't cast a Patronus at the moment. Can you get Hermione
      or Lesath, just in case? They should both be in the DMLE."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Barnok eyed him over, then conjured up a walking stick, pushed
      it into Harry's hands, and disappeared.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Open the floodgates, Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned to find Harry standing next to him. He shook his
      head. "I can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can," Harry said gently, but with conviction. "This may be
      the only chance you'll ever have. Believe it, and you can do
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco swallowed, and screwed up his eyes, concentrating. He just
      heard the sound of the phoenix's reappearance, probably with
      someone else to help. But this, he would do himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronus waxed, slowly but certainly, as Draco let the
      brightness fill him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We shall see each other again in the afterlife, father,</em>
      he promised silently. <em class="calibre8">But until then, nobody shall ever die
      unless they're ready. Not if I have anything to say about
      it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is gone," Barnok whispered. "Well done, boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Draco," Harry whispered. "And I'm sorry. I'm so
      sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. He had better be.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry dragged himself over to where Dumbledore was gazing sadly
      at Lupin's corpse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never meant to kill anyone else," Harry said guiltily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remus was always a brave man," the former Headmaster observed.
      "Didn't you know that the ritual has a significant chance of
      killing either caster, if the sacrifices used are too old?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said softly. "Quirrell didn't mention that
      part."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore glanced at him. "He was the one who told you about
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I daresay he didn't understand the relevance at the time,"
      Harry shrugged. "I only <em class="calibre8">just</em> figured out the Dementor
      thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore caught his eyes. "Only just? What would you have done
      if you were wrong?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was silent for a while. It had been so obvious that he
      hadn't really thought about the possibility that the ritual did
      anything else. But if he <em class="calibre8">had</em> been wrong... Would the True
      Patronus Charm have helped against whatever representation of Death
      the ritual summoned?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," the old wizard said calmly after some moments. "We have
      been very fortunate today, but I must say that I shall be
      considerably more restrained following your instructions in the
      future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Did you cast the anti-decomposition charm on
      Lupin and Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard sighed, and started casting.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on, boy, get outta here so the Aurors can fix the place,
      and the medi-wizards can fix you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was staring at the lifeless body of Tom Riddle. There was
      no intellect in it anymore, the life was gone, and yet the body was
      still breathing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What had he meant with his final words, about Bacon's tree?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry," Moody's voice growled behind him. "I'm not mad
      enough to let anyone kill him. We'll put the body in prison. Just
      in case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not – never mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're new to this, aren't ye?" The man spoke more gently now.
      "Never been in a fight to the death before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not like this. I never had to decide to kill someone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor Moody nodded and put a hand on his shoulder. "You'll get
      over it. It's not a pleasant thing, but you're still alive, and
      that's what matters." He tried to steer Harry away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Wait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry limped towards the breathing corpse. There was not the
      slightest feeling of doom about it, even as he touched the hand and
      carefully took the ebony wand out of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't feel anything. The dark lord was supposed to have his
      brother wand, as Ollivander had said, but this was not the one.
      Riddle had fought with a wand that was not his own. He had known
      that his body might die, and prepared for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's go, sonny, and get you patched up. The day is not over
      yet. Not by far."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Emmeline Vance Apparated back to the DMLE to give the diplomats
      the news. It had been only fifteen minutes since the duel had come
      to its end, and her head was still spinning, but she'd been ordered
      to move swiftly. Amelia had given her a quick rundown of what
      seemed to have happened and told her to get going; it was essential
      not to leave the Muggles hanging for too long. Not just for the
      sake of politeness, and not only because these were the people – or
      at least <em class="calibre8">connected</em> to the people – with their hands on the
      massive Hogwarts-destroying explosives. But also because, as her
      Director had impressed upon her with a strained face, the Queen was
      undeniably their ruler now, and she held the power to create a lot
      of trouble if they got on her wrong side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emmeline quietly opened the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– battles were really educative, although I suppose you might
      say in hindsight –" The girl stopped mid-sentence as she heard the
      door opening and jumped up. "Auror Vance! What's happening?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good news," she quickly said. "We won. Voldemort is dead, and
      Albus Dumbledore and Harry Potter have survived." She saw the child
      slump with relief, but still looking anxious, so she quickly added:
      "So did Draco Malfoy and Pius Thicknesse. The only other ones who
      died today were Lord Malfoy and Remus Lupin." She felt a lurch of
      sadness with that last name, but this was not the time to
      mourn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Granger's eyes went wide. "Mr. Lupin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You knew him?" Who would have let a werewolf near a Muggleborn
      child – oh, <em class="calibre8">Albus</em>, of course. "I'm glad that some people
      will remember him." Her fellow member of the Order of the Phoenix
      had deserved much better than the series of tragedies life had
      given him. But at least he had died a true Gryffindor's death,
      giving his life to pave the way for peace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to the Queen. "Your Majesty. On behalf of our world,
      I would like to express our gratitude for your interference."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The amulet helped, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emmeline took a deep breath. "We can't really be sure." Amelia
      had gambled her career on this; the Wizengamot would not lightly
      forgive the head of the DMLE for telling the Queen how to exercise
      power over magic users. And for all they had achieved today, they
      might never find out whether the choice had been necessary. "We
      will need a recording of the Pensieve memories to string together
      exactly what happened. But for what I understand, Albus Dumbledore
      took the moment after you used the amulet to break through the
      anti-phoenix wards, which allowed some of our people to get in and
      finish him off. Albus could <em class="calibre8">probably</em> have succeeded even
      if Voldemort's powers were unhampered, but that isn't certain, and
      the sudden loss of power distracted Voldemort for the crucial
      seconds it took for the ritual to complete. I suspect that, even if
      we could have won without your help, you definitely saved several
      lives, most importantly Harry Potter and Albus Dumbledore. So for
      that, we are in your debt. The director says she hopes that this
      will be the beginning of a good friendship between our people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Queen smiled and inclined her head. "Indeed. But if it is
      safe now, we should return to the palace. We were supposed to
      remain in contact with parliament, and the people may be concerned
      over our disappearance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They know you're fine," Emmeline smiled. "The Scrying Charm on
      Miss Granger is still active, and Madam Bones has ordered it sent
      to the Muggle television station. I suspect they are even now
      broadcasting everything that has happened in this room since you
      arrived." Although in hindsight, perhaps it would have been polite
      to mention that before...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose that was a sensible precaution," the Queen responded
      after a moment's glance at the others. "Nevertheless, our
      communication devices do not seem to work here. Let us return
      now."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">With a burst of flame, Xare brought Hermione and the nine
      representatives back to the wrecked sitting room of the palace.
      They had seen it on screen already, but the destruction was all the
      more evident up close. A large part of the castle had been
      destroyed, not just the one room, and the air was full with the
      smell of dust, and something more – blood? But already a magical
      team was working on the restoration. There were no other Muggles in
      sight, but they were probably kept outside to avoid magical
      accidents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the representatives, John Locker, looked around and
      heaved a deep sigh. "I suppose that's it for the day. We might as
      well go home now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aye," Hillary Toney agreed. "There's plenty to do here, but not
      much where we'd be useful. Could you lead us outside?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione bit her lip. This hadn't gone well at all. True,
      Voldemort had been defeated – apparently, she still needed to hear
      the finer points of that – but the main goal of the day had
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> been achieved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She knew what was at stake, why the Ministry had been pushing so
      hard to get around the table with the Muggle leaders as soon as
      possible, why they'd even gone so far as to appoint Harry. <em class="calibre8">They
      had to stop the war.</em> If a solution was not found quickly, the
      fighting would continue to escalate until there was no stopping it
      anymore. The announcement of negotiations, and the harsh Auror
      response to any out-of-bounds magic had helped, but what the
      television would have shown today was a very short discussion
      session, an informal surrender that obviously wasn't supported by
      the majority of the magical negotiation committee, and then a
      massive duel. Would that be enough to stall the fighting until a
      good resolution could be reached?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the Muggle side, probably. They'd be confused now, not
      knowing what to think, so hopefully the majority would hesitate to
      act until the session was followed up. But from the <em class="calibre8">wizard</em>
      side... Harry had just done the unthinkable: he had surrendered to
      Muggle authority. He was <em class="calibre8">going</em> to shape the conversation
      to a deal that wizards could live with, but he hadn't gotten around
      to those parts. Lucius Malfoy had been livid even when Harry's
      angle became clear, and he surely wouldn't be the only one. Many
      witches and wizards would be <em class="calibre8">terrified</em> that they'd be
      forced to give up their magic, or even become slaves to the Muggles
      – Harry had explicitly stated that he wouldn't accept that, but she
      knew that it was easy to stop thinking and listening right after
      you heard something bad...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If a large faction of wizards decided to rebel against what
      seemed to them to be a very disagreeable deal, would there ever be
      a chance to finish the discussions? Or if violent groups decided to
      make a treaty impossible by stepping up attacks on Muggles, would
      the DMLE be able to keep it in hand? Would they have enough people?
      How many Aurors had been upset by the proposals?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps –" she started hesitatingly, then stopped herself and
      stood a little straighter. "Your Majesty, I propose that we
      continue the discussions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The representative of the United Nations stared. "The building
      is in ruins, our communication is disrupted, and your negotiator is
      in hospital."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Show no doubt.</em> "I'm sure not the <em class="calibre8">whole</em>
      building is destroyed, and the DMLE is already forwarding
      everything I see to the TV – if cameras are hard to arrange, I can
      ask someone to set up more Scrying Charms to simulate them. And I
      <em class="calibre8">am</em> officially a part of the negotiation committee. Harry
      is the only one who can <em class="calibre8">sign</em> the treaty, but I think I
      have a pretty good idea of what he wants." They were all sending
      her skeptical glances now. So far, she'd been the harmless child in
      charge of getting people out in case of emergencies. She was
      breaking that role badly by suddenly assuming command and offering
      to continue peace negotiations on her own. Still, it couldn't be
      that much stranger than an eleven-year old leading the committee,
      and they'd accepted that, so she pushed on. "We could get the basic
      ideas hammered out, and then finish when Harry is released from
      hospital. I think it could be really important to reach some kind
      of resolution quickly." She didn't try to keep the urgency out of
      her voice; it could only help if they realized that giving up now
      would have negative consequences.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Queen glanced at her companions, who looked uncertain, but
      some of them gave slight nods.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well then," she decided. "I propose a thirty minute
      recess, in which we shall restore our communication with
      parliament. After that, I suppose, we will speak further."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Within half an hour, a small room in the castle which had not
      been touched by the destruction was equipped with video cameras,
      and the nine representatives of government returned with new
      earpieces, the old ones needing a check-over after having been
      exposed to the high amount of magic in the DMLE. Discrete messages
      were sent to the Boy-Who-Lived and other members of the negotiating
      committee, but the only one not currently in hospital was in
      mourning, and quite obviously not in the mood. Hermione boldly went
      in by herself, although she was quickly joined by Emmeline Vance,
      <em class="calibre8">supposedly</em> for her protection, although it was unlikely
      that anyone would object if the Muggleborn witch should happen to
      ask the pureblood Auror some background questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before the cameras and the critical questioning of the nine
      Muggles, Hermione explained Harry's goals, as she had understood
      them: to create peace, keep the lives of most wizards and witches –
      at least those who weren't <em class="calibre8">looking</em> for change – and also
      most Muggles roughly unaffected, but create possibilities for trade
      and shared research to improve everyone's quality of life. She did
      immediately relate Dumbledore's worries, and included his tale of
      how the Statute of Secrecy had allowed science to flourish. The
      representatives were skeptical of the insurmountability of this
      problem, although they did agree that they had to be careful with
      planning, because various industries might not be too pleased with
      the shortcuts magic offered, and could end up opposing the treaty
      unnecessarily. She told them the details of the recently added
      trace, and how they had been told it would be enforced. She even
      explained the nature of Harry's current power over the government,
      and the potential for refusal if a 90% majority of the Wizengamot
      rejected the treaty – or the simple possibility for all or most
      wizards to leave the country and seek their fate elsewhere, leaving
      the Muggles without realistic enforcement methods against magic
      users. She wasn't entirely sure whether it was good politics to
      throw all of their cards on the table like that, but (a) she didn't
      have Harry's manipulative streak, (b) no one <em class="calibre8">expected</em> her
      to try tricking them, and (c) the representatives responded well to
      someone simply being honest about their intentions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were many questions. Hermione elaborated on Harry's
      warnings about sharing knowledge by explaining the things Professor
      Quirrell had said in his lecture for Muggleborns, a lecture that
      had been specifically designed for people <em class="calibre8">not</em> familiar
      with the wizarding world. She explained – with a lot of help from
      Emmeline Vance – how the Wizengamot functioned. The two of them
      together spoke of blood prejudice, of the war, Lucius's and
      Dumbledore's role in it, the general trauma in the wizarding world,
      and how Harry had mysteriously ended it the last time. She also
      noted the many things purebloods took for granted, and would not
      appreciate losing in any kind of arrangement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When pressed for more background, Hermione told them more about
      the things "Professor Quirrell" had done, and Emmeline urged her to
      include certain recent events regarding her own part. They even
      spoke of Grindelwald, and all the other wizarding interference
      which had been hidden in plain sight for all those years. Hermione
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> hoped that the other countries wouldn't take
      offense at her revelations (which were undoubtedly broadcasted
      worldwide even as she spoke), because one brief stay in prison had
      been quite enough, but she wasn't going to let that consideration
      stop her from breaking the International Statute of Secrecy all
      over the place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was almost 5pm when Harry finally stepped into the small
      room. He was completely cured, and even his robes were as good as
      new.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the women drew in a breath. "We have <em class="calibre8">got</em> to
      learn how to do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Potter," the Queen greeted him with a gentle nod. "Your
      friend and fellow negotiator has given us some of the background of
      today's events. It was fascinating, although if I am indeed your
      ruler now, I do believe I am going to have to put my foot down
      about putting children into adult prisons. For the rest, I am happy
      to delegate the authority to the elected representatives of the
      people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is a decision I can fully agree with, Your Majesty," Harry
      said with a bow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," the Queen said. "I believe we have a lot to discuss
      regarding the conditions of your surrender. Miss Granger and Auror
      Vance here have given us an important overview of your desires for
      this treaty, and we are overall in agreement that it is in
      everyone's interest to find an satisfactory arrangement to all
      parties. Given the absence so far of anyone with final authority on
      your side we have focused on the larger picture rather than the
      details, but with your presence we may start finalizing the most
      urgent points. For example, I understand that witches and wizards
      commonly use magic to remove the tedium of common tasks like
      cooking, for which I suspect you will want to discuss
      permission."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Harry confirmed. "Although I <em class="calibre8">am</em> just a
      first-year student raised by Muggles, and do not know all that can
      be done, or is commonly done. That was really why I had those
      adults with me. Well, one of the reasons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can help," Emmeline Vance offered. "I was surprised by
      your... negotiating style at first, but I think I can see the
      logic. If we cannot live in secrecy, this is a good alternative. If
      you can accept my help without a Vow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grimaced. "Yes, that part was a little too dangerous for
      comfort anyway. Thank you." He turned to the Muggles. "So, what
      have you got so far?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
