<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 112: Negotiations, Aftermaths, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s32" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 112: Negotiations, Pt 4 – Aftermaths</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In the hour that followed, the Muggle government representatives
      and Harry, Hermione and Emmeline put their heads together to iron
      out the details for the first proposals to put to parliament.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At six, Pius Thicknesse returned from St. Mungo's, accompanied
      by two members of the Wizengamot whom he identified as progressive
      thinkers with a solid understanding of the economic and cultural
      foundations of their world. As Pius explained, little though they
      liked the situation of the surrender, they understood that it was
      improbable that they could block it – a 90% majority against
      Potter's treaty was unlikely, even not counting the Queen's formal
      and real power over magic users – and therefore they were
      grudgingly willing to go along with the situation, provided they
      could mitigate the damage somewhat. Professor Dumbledore,
      physically and magically exhausted, did not return, nor did
      Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With the six of them and the nine Muggles, the first beginnings
      of a treaty were crafted, based on the wishes of both sides. The
      Muggles made no promises but simply wrote up the ideas which were
      agreed upon to bring back to their superiors, who would have to
      formally approve the draft. The core of the treaty allowed both
      sides limiting control on magic. On the one hand, a Muggle group –
      most likely a new non-magical side to the Ministry of Magic,
      elected by the general public – would be able to dictate which
      magics could be used under which circumstances, using the tracing
      system for enforcement. On the other hand, the Wizengamot would
      have the same control, which most importantly implied that they
      would have to approve any magic given to Muggles. The few elected
      positions in the magical side of the Ministry could only be voted
      for by magic users.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizards were assured that clearing the common spells they
      had described would mostly be a formality, as would full
      functioning of St. Mungo's and other essential features of the
      wizarding world. Despite weak protestations of one of the
      Wizengamot members, they agreed with Harry that memory charms
      should <em class="calibre8">not</em> be permitted without explicit permission of the
      target, and even then only in very specific circumstances, to be
      cleared by a committee on an individual basis. Love potions and
      other questionable items sold for "fun" were also not going to be
      allowed in the near future, but there was a good chance for the
      approval of potentially dangerous spells within the boundaries of a
      magical household.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Muggles were <em class="calibre8">very</em> interested in all the
      possibilities magic offered, and suggested suitable areas of land
      that could be assigned to use as resorts for magical creatures or
      to grow magical plants, which could help to counteract scarcity
      issues for several potions. The idea of magical research in
      radio-activity – a necessity to reuse the Hogwarts grounds – was
      met with great enthusiasm, not just because of how much safer it
      would make nuclear power plants, but also because of the potential,
      since Thicknesse suggested in perfect seriousness that magic might
      be able to <em class="calibre8">use</em> all that energy. The Muggle representatives
      agreed – in some cases quite reluctantly – not to make any
      decisions on healing charms, potions and transportation before
      discussing the matter with a variety of interest groups.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dinner was brought by Thicknesse's House Elf, which caused a
      small riot where Harry had to frantically explain that the Elves
      <em class="calibre8">honestly liked</em> their slavery and the Muggles insisted
      (with Hermione's backing) that ethicists would have an input on
      their future treatment, and that a statement of House Elf rights
      should be drafted. This led to discussions on other magical
      creatures, and the decision to send a delegation of Muggles to
      goblin representatives and include them in the rest of the
      negotiations. The status of centaurs and mermen was discussed at
      length. Other questions came up as well, of international
      relations, political structures and currency, until Harry was dead
      tired, bored to the bone, and silently vowed never to go anywhere
      near politics again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">At long last, the negotiations were over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the Queen had observed that the children looked like it was
      well past their bedtime, the discussions had been wrapped up for
      the day. Hermione had taken Harry back to Grimmauld Place, where
      Snape had arranged a separate room for the two of them and woken up
      Dumbledore to allow two trusted Auror trios into the wards to stand
      guard outside their door. The old wizard had also silently passed
      Harry a mahogany wand; his father's, apparently. It worked,
      somewhat – better than Lupin's wand, certainly – but Harry knew
      he'd have to visit Ollivander's soon if he was going to get into
      any situation where he really needed his magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So now, he lay on his bed, listening to Hermione's soft
      breathing from the other side of the room. The day had been tiring,
      but he couldn't yet sleep, so he just stared at the dark ceiling
      above.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he remembered the stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perfect points of light against total blackness. The feeling of
      being bodiless, alone in the night sky, far away from all the
      darkness and cruelty of earth. The enormousness and the beauty of
      the image.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the most personal thing he and the Defense Professor had
      shared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man he had known as the Defense Professor was, almost
      certainly, dead. Gone. Ceased to be. They would never watch the
      stars together again. In fact, Harry might have lost the chance to
      ever relive the experience at all, even alone or with others, for
      all of Slytherin's lost magic had been destroyed along with the
      man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt lonely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite everything, there had been a bond between them. The man
      who had stood beside him underneath the stars – somehow, Harry felt
      sure that <em class="calibre8">that</em> was the real Tom Riddle, not a face he put
      up. His first mentor, the only person in the entire world whom
      Harry could truly look up to. A murderer, who had so truly lost
      faith in humanity that he would happily choose the certainty of
      killing millions of people over the uncertain prospect of total
      annihilation by Muggle hands. A friend, who had made him stronger
      and understood him on a level no one else ever had, or might ever
      do again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gone now. Harry had killed him. Not by his own hands, perhaps,
      but by intent and choice all the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was it definite?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had promised himself that he would learn to undo death.
      Had sworn it over and over only a week and a half ago, on the day
      that would go down in history as Dark Monday. Had ignored all his
      other feelings and just forced himself to believe it as well as he
      could. He had continued the insistence after the Battle of
      Hogwarts, and done all in his power to make the step of
      resurrection easier, at least for those near and dear people who
      died by his side. But now, the belief that it could be done did not
      come so easily anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The notion of death was not as simple as it had seemed before.
      The strange sense in the air when Mum had died... it had happened
      after her heart stopped, but <em class="calibre8">before</em> her brain would have
      died. And then there was the whole "spirit" thing. Tom Riddle
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> apparently managed to survive the death of his body
      somehow, and continued to possess a body which surely would have
      had a different brain. So what, then, was <em class="calibre8">life</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had managed to make predictions about the way spirits,
      possession and Dementors behaved by pattern-matching on the notion
      of a soul, and the outcomes seemed to match reality. Could it be
      that he'd been wrong all along? Was it possible that there actually
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> a soul, which lived on in some other world after
      death?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We have no strong evidence one way or another,</em> the
      voice of Ravenclaw pointed out. <em class="calibre8">Perhaps we should reevaluate
      our beliefs. It seems that it's possible to keep thinking without a
      brain, as demonstrated by the existence of both spirits and
      Animagi</em> <em class="calibre8">– at least for people with magic. This means that
      our model of the universe, where the brain is what a person</em>
      is<em class="calibre8">, is inconsistent with reality. Taking that into account,
      why</em> couldn't <em class="calibre8">there be something magical in sentient life
      that might as well be called a soul?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wouldn't it be wonderful?</em> Hufflepuff sighed. <em class="calibre8">We
      already know from potions that magic has a sort of fairness which
      isn't present in the Muggle part of science. Maybe the</em> true
      <em class="calibre8">universe is not is as harsh as it seems to be. Maybe souls live
      on in some kind of meaningful afterlife, maybe nobody ever</em>
      really <em class="calibre8">died.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And I suppose you've forgotten,</em> Slytherin coldly said,
      <em class="calibre8">just how many people have died to Dementors?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no response from Hufflepuff, only a terrible feeling
      of sadness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">All we know,</em> Ravenclaw pointed out, <em class="calibre8">is that we</em>
      don't <em class="calibre8">really know anything. Reality probably isn't like we
      imagined it to be. That doesn't mean it has to be worse. What</em>
      do <em class="calibre8">we know?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He knew that Dementors <em class="calibre8">supposedly</em> destroyed souls – and
      yet, if Dementors were just a magical representation of death in
      the world, could they be worse than the real thing? He knew that
      people – even Muggles, or at least Squibs – caused some kind of
      feeling of release in the air when they died, which might be magic,
      life, the soul or perhaps even something different altogether. He
      knew that wizards, who surely must know about this feeling, did not
      universally take the existence of a soul for granted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How could a soul preserve what a person was when a stick through
      the brain could completely change your personality? But then, if
      there was a soul, it didn't necessarily follow that it contained
      all that a person was. Perhaps it was just some kind of cosmic
      spark, something that gave you sentience and disappeared again when
      you died. It might not need to contain your personality and
      memories at all; those would be stored in your body – or your
      magic, in the case of spirits and Animagi.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Does it even make sense,</em> he wondered, <em class="calibre8">to assume a
      soul that departs on death, if people have been revived long after
      their heart stopped beating?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">How long afterwards?</em> Ravenclaw asked. <em class="calibre8">More than six
      hours?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">... okay, so perhaps that did make sense. Perhaps a soul, cosmic
      energy or <em class="calibre8">what</em> departed when your body died and the
      universe knew it wouldn't be fixed soon enough. And if that was the
      case, then even if he could find a way to break the laws of time
      and go back down history and backup every sentient creature that
      ever lived, it wouldn't be enough. Without their "soul", was there
      any chance of reviving people as the same person they had been?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We don't know,</em> Ravenclaw repeated. <em class="calibre8">There is only
      one way to find out the answers to such questions. We should
      exp-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Internally, Hufflepuff and Gryffindor recoiled in horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-ertly do a literature study,</em> Ravenclaw finished
      meekly. <em class="calibre8">Perhaps we should involve Dumbledore. He may be biased
      on this issue, but if we ask the right questions, he will be able
      to point to the right places for answers. Or even better, could we
      get Nicolas Flamel? Dumbledore</em> did <em class="calibre8">say he wanted to teach
      us, and since he was able to cast the True Patronus Charm, he
      probably does not suffer from Dumbledore's biases.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I will also register,</em> Gryffindor piped up, <em class="calibre8">that
      there is no reason to despair of our success. The first plan might
      not work for any number of reasons, but we can make others. The
      possible existence of souls could turn out to be a very good thing.
      We don't have all the answers yet, but some day, we will. For now,
      the important thing is to keep more people from dying. Once we get
      there, we shall learn how to undo it for others. If there is any
      way to fix reality, we will.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And,</em> Hufflepuff added quietly, <em class="calibre8">perhaps even if
      there are souls and Dementors eat them, our destruction of all
      Dementors might have undone that effect. Even for those people who
      died last week, and in all the previous battles involving
      Dementors, there is hope. Even Quirrell might yet live. Especially
      since at least one part of his soul is still safe.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly stood up from the bed, and looked ahead. The voice
      of Professor Quirrell echoed in his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Sometimes, when this world seems unusually hateful, I wonder
      whether there might be some other place where I should have been.
      But the stars are so very, very far away, and I wonder what I would
      dream about, if I slept for a long, long time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sleep well, Professor," he whispered. "I will be there when you
      wake up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held on to these thoughts, taking the mahogany wand in his
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The light came slowly, this time. But it came.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The manor was the image of grandeur. Built to accommodate the
      entire extended Malfoy family in better times, it had been largely
      unused already during Abraxas's life. Now, with nothing left of the
      once-great family but an orphan boy and a single House Elf, the
      place just felt daunting and very, very empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The one remaining scion of Malfoy sat alone in the large, empty
      kitchen, holding a cup of pumpkin juice but not drinking. It was
      late in the evening and perhaps he should go to bed, but he'd slept
      and cried for a good part of the day, and he wasn't in the mood.
      There were things to organize – many of them! – but he couldn't
      bear the thought of doing anything at all. Earlier today he'd
      managed to find hope, somehow, but now, the world just felt as
      empty as the house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master, sir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" He snapped at the House Elf who had quietly shuffled
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Snape is wanting to talk to you, master."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco wanted to tell him to get lost, but what would be the
      point? He wasn't really doing anything anyway. So he sighed, pushed
      himself up and stepped into the visiting room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape's head lay in the fireplace, looking him over calmly. "May
      I come in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Draco shrugged. Within seconds, the Potions Master
      stepped into the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They told me you left St. Mungo's on your own,
      unsupervised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was nothing wrong with me," Draco shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape just gave him a look. "Be that as it may, you are too
      young to live on your own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who else have I got?" He snapped. The only close relative who
      was alive and not in Azkaban was aunt Andromeda, and she'd been
      kicked out of the Black family for being a Blood Traitor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I admit that, with everything that happened, it took us a long
      time to realize your situation, but by law and custom, you are a
      ward of the school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What school?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Conveniently, the law does not specify that a building needs to
      exist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horror dawned on Draco. "I don't want to be in
      <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore's</em> power!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Headmaster understands that. He said he's willing to pass
      your custody to me, or to any other responsible adult you wish to
      name. I propose that you join me and your fellow students in the
      Black House, and somewhere during the weekend we will arrange your
      finances and other matters together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked up at the Potions Master, who seemed unusually
      sincere. <em class="calibre8">Responsible adult?</em> He could almost believe it,
      the way the man acted now. And going along <em class="calibre8">did</em> sound
      marginally better than sticking in the empty manor with only Dobby
      for company. It wasn't much, but some of the hollow feeling in his
      chest left him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on, Draco, let's go. You don't have to deal with this
      alone."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On Saturday afternoon, there really wasn't much left to do but
      cleaning, reading, and talking politics. In Windsor Castle,
      officials from both worlds were still discussing a variety of
      formal aspects of the treaty, but in that, there was little need
      for children, no matter how precocious. Hermione and Harry had
      attended the formal lunch, but Dumbledore had suggested that they
      might wish to fill their leisure time more productively than being
      bored out of their skulls with endless discussions on politics and
      economy. Even the Queen wasn't sticking around; having finalized
      the initial relations, it was time for the lawyers to take over.
      And that meant that Hermione really didn't have much of an excuse
      to continue putting off the visit she had – if she were entirely
      honest with herself – been putting off for most of the last
      week.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a burst of flame, she appeared in her bedroom. She gently
      placed Xare on the bed – the fire bird would be by her side with a
      thought, but she didn't want to draw attention to her familiar now
      – and went out into the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were voices downstairs. Hermione tiptoed down the stairs
      and peeked into the living room. Both her parents were there, glued
      to the television, which showed the negotiations that were still
      being transmitted live. There didn't seem to be anyone else
      around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stepped inside. "Hey mum. Hey dad. I'm home."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Lord Potter," Albus Dumbledore spoke formally. "The
      Muggle government have agreed to the creation of 'magic-zones' like
      you suggested, where the specific spells on this list –" he held up
      three A4s, "– are permitted without alarm. They say that in the
      future the list could be expanded or turned into an 'all except'
      list, provided we take care that Muggles are not allowed on those
      premises without their explicit consent, and a paper trail exists
      that would allow the government to trace disappearances. In
      addition, I have taken the liberty to suggest amendments for Squib
      children, and sufficiently protected research labs. We have agreed
      on fixed cost and taxation of healing potions and services, and
      those services are currently restricted to injuries where Muggle
      treatment cannot provide a complete cure. There has been
      significant debate as to which new treatments the NHS should cover,
      but we have generally agreed that this is not a direct concern for
      the service providers; this is something the Muggles can debate
      without our input. The Muggle governments have designated large
      areas of land for magical purposes –" he held up another paper "–
      with an open application to interested undertakers who wish to rent
      and use the land. The goblins have agreed to send a team of
      representatives to join tomorrow's negotiations. If you could study
      and approve these agreements –" many papers were shoved in his
      direction "– that would be wonderful. You have my word that there
      is no trick or small print, and that I believe that this contract
      corresponds to the ideas you posed yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. He'd mostly been kept out of the discussions
      today, which he had accepted because a short session demonstrated
      just how little he had to add. Moreover, Dumbledore had strongly
      urged him not to show his face in the Wizengamot for the time
      being, as "the inevitable recriminations would only serve to stall
      any semblance of progress". Nevertheless, the votes to immediately
      halt negotiations had failed, and Dumbledore seemed to fully back
      Harry's plans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor..." He asked hesitantly. "Are you actually in favor
      of all this? Or are you just going along because you have to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard smiled grimly. "I do not value my life so highly
      that I would not speak out against your proposals if I felt they
      were wrong, Harry. Nor do I think you would kill me for giving my
      opinion. This move is frightening to our kind, certainly, but I
      suspect it will turn out for the best in the long run."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I</em>'m not even sure of that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, but you see... I have some extra information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore put both hands into a pocket of his robes, and
      carefully retrieved the Pensieve from it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You see, in the very first week of this school year, Professor
      Trelawney made a prophecy –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His wand prodded the silvery substance in the basin, and a
      figure rose up out of its depths.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"HE IS COMING. THE ONE WHO WILL TEAR APART THE VERY
      STRUCTURE OF OUR WORLD. HE WILL ENSLAVE US. YET HE WILL SAVE US
      ALL."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared as the figure sank back down into the Pensieve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that – do you think that was about me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have wondered about this for a long time. I estimated that
      the prophecy could either refer to you, or to Lord Voldemort. I
      feared that it meant the rise of a new dark lord, or perhaps even a
      light lord. Your description of Voldemort's plans for the world,
      and for you, seemed frighteningly accurate." He folded his hands.
      "However, I believe it has been fulfilled rather than averted
      today. Certainly you have successfully enslaved us all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I was here all along," Harry protested. "And I didn't
      exactly save everyone, did I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were not that person then," Dumbledore replied simply,
      "now, I daresay you are. As for the word 'save', in prophecies it
      can mean a great many things. You might have saved us from
      Voldemort's plans, from steady stagnation, or from the corruption
      that was slowly devolving our world. Perhaps it even refers to a
      future achievement you have not yet come to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Such as defeating death</em>, Harry thought. <em class="calibre8">Making
      people not die would certainly count as saving them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As it is," the old wizard continued, "you have many enemies
      right now.. We are fortunate that your idea caused Voldemort's
      defeat for the eyes of the nation – Amelia has taken the liberty to
      supply the Muggles with a recording of my memories, to mend any
      holes in the video coverage of the event. It is likely that your
      public victory over the greatest dark lord who ever lived will give
      you enough popular support to overcome at least some of the hatred
      for relinquishing our autonomy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Like Riddle intended. Although I probably won't be ruling
      any time soon. Placing the nation under Muggle authority is quite a
      disadvantage to have to overcome.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we entirely sure he is dead, by the way?" Harry asked.
      "I've been thinking about it, and while it would make a lot of
      sense with the whole notion of a soul, I didn't get the idea that
      we actually know enough about the way horcruxes work to be
      completely convinced. Not to mention, Draco actually destroyed the
      Dementor. There wasn't much of a choice, since we couldn't exactly
      keep it around, but that might have made a difference."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are right to hesitate," the old wizard spoke soberly. "But
      the signs are positive, at least. Neither Alastor nor I saw a
      spirit escape, and it is important to realize that the Dementor's
      Kiss does not just take the soul, but also drains the magic. Even
      if the soul survived somehow, a spirit cannot function without its
      magic. Besides, Riddle seemed to fear the Dementor – if that was
      merely an act, he at least intends us to <em class="calibre8">believe</em> that he
      is gone now, which should give us another reprieve. That, along
      with the fact that Severus's mark has faded, is a hopeful sign,
      although I confess the mark is not fully gone." He sighed. "We may
      never have complete certainty, but for the time being, it seems
      that you have won your war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down. "It doesn't feel like victory," he
      complained. "Far too many have died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah yes," the old wizard said with a tone of understanding.
      "Such is the price of war. The winner gets to tell the tale
      afterwards, and so there is some victory, but it is always
      hard-bought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor –" Harry looked up at the old wizard. "There are a
      few things I wanted to ask you about death and souls."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah? You no longer believe you have all the answers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not so sure anymore. You know that feeling of outpouring in
      the air when someone dies?" The old wizard nodded. "What is
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is the soul passing on, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I thought you would say that. Do Muggles have it?
      Not Squibs, they are still able to see magical items and so on, but
      <em class="calibre8">actual</em> Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard shook his head. "You cannot sense it for them.
      The outpouring is much stronger when a witch or wizard dies than a
      Squib – I believe because it is the magic that allows us to feel
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or the feeling is nothing more than the <em class="calibre8">magic</em> leaving
      when someone dies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man looked uncomfortable. "I suppose that is possible,
      but then, the magic does not carry the essence of a person. You
      would not experience the feeling of all that they were, if it was
      merely their magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Harry sighed. "Okay, next question. Have you ever
      known someone with brain damage, like the Longbottoms, to die and
      become a ghost? Does the ghost maintain the damaged state, or are
      they healed somehow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man frowned. "I have never known someone like that to
      become a ghost, but to become a ghost is a rare event anyway, and
      wizards do not obtain brain damage as easily as Muggles seem
      to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, uncertain. Not that ghosts were necessarily a good
      indication of what a soul was or what happened to it anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if someone dies by a Dementor, and you kill the body... do
      they give that feeling?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," the old wizard said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor." He stared at the table for a few
      moments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are grieving," the old wizard said carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not <em class="calibre8">grieving</em>," Harry corrected. "I'm
      <em class="calibre8">planning.</em> Professor, can you put me in touch with Nicolas
      Flamel? I don't want to offend you, but perhaps he has answers that
      I can accept."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nicolas... is not very pleased with either you <em class="calibre8">or</em> me
      at the moment, I'm afraid," the old wizard spoke gravely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Why not? Didn't we just secure the safety of his
      stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like many, he prefers to die over being complicit in the
      potential destruction of the earth." The old wizard sighed deeply.
      "Despite his misgivings, he gave Alastor and Remus the instructions
      for the ritual because <em class="calibre8">I</em> had asked. He trusted my
      judgment. And I, foolishly, trusted yours. Since you asked for the
      ritual, which I had never told you about, I assumed that you knew
      more than you really did. I should not have forgotten that you are
      only eleven, and raised by Muggles besides. The fault is truly
      mine. I suspect my own desires played a significant role in this
      folly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mouth was dry. "But I was <em class="calibre8">right</em> about what it
      did. Besides, even if the ritual hadn't summoned a Dementor, I'm
      pretty sure the True Patronus Charm would have worked against
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you truly not comprehend the gravity of our offense, Mr.
      Potter?" The ancient wizard looked into his eyes long and hard.
      "When the fate of the world is at stake, <em class="calibre8">pretty sure</em> does
      not suffice! If there was a one in a thousand chance that the
      ritual did not do what you expected, that it might have summoned an
      unstoppable horror that could have ended all human life, then you
      should not have even <em class="calibre8">considered</em> it. All turned out for the
      best yesterday, but what will happen the next time you make such a
      gamble?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down at the table. "I see the point. I guess this
      is exactly why Riddle doesn't like Muggle scientists."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If they would take similar risks, then I imagine he has reason,
      yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could that be why Riddle allowed himself to be caught in that
      situation?" Harry wondered aloud. "That it was unthinkable to him
      that I would do something like that? But then, he knows I was
      raised by Muggles, and he's called me terms like 'extraordinary
      idiot' and 'witless dunce' on multiple occasions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since he was the one who told you about the ritual," Dumbledore
      observed, "I would imagine the possibility of your using it against
      him did not slip his mind. However, the <em class="calibre8">timing</em> may have
      surprised him. Had you realized the implications before and told me
      of your suspicions, I would have deterred you from this course. In
      the unlikely event that you had managed to persuade me or others,
      it seems probable that we would have brought the components with us
      – something he may have tested for early on. Even as it was, the
      plan would not have worked without the Queen's timely interference.
      Without the few seconds distraction her use of the amulet provided,
      Riddle could have halted the ritual before its completion, restored
      the anti-phoenix wards before Barnok took you away, and, with all
      my powers expended, finished whatever plans he had without further
      obstacles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. In the end, even a worst-case planner with a
      veritable pack full of backups could be surprised by reality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe Nicolas will forgive us eventually," Dumbledore said
      quietly. "He has a great heart, after all, and he has not betrayed
      my confession of how little I knew to the world at large. For the
      moment, however, it does not seem wise to press the point. Perhaps
      as a penance, you might wish to follow that course on <em class="calibre8">caution
      with power</em> that you placed on your list as a condition for
      Muggle scientists to work with magic. I shall of course take it to
      heart as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked. "Thank you, I will definitely do that. But for a
      different topic, I don't suppose you have any books on Dementors? I
      know that no one's really sure how they work, but I wouldn't mind
      learning the dominant theories and the available evidence for each
      of them. I'm also willing to personally sponsor medical research on
      exactly what is wrong with the Dementor victims who are still
      alive. I know it wouldn't be safe to use Riddle's last body for
      that, but some others must have been delivered to hospitals by
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can bring up the point and state your intentions to the
      Muggle representatives. There might even be some victims in Britain
      to work with. However –" Dumbledore fixed him with another one of
      his piercing looks. "Am I right to conclude that you are feeling
      guilty over Tom Riddle's fate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's not the only one who was Kissed recently," Harry bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is not," the former Headmaster conceded. "But it surprises
      me that you would ask about Dementor-victims before speaking of the
      corpses you had me protect with the anti-decomposition charm, which
      leads me to suspect that it is a matter of particular urgency in
      your mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down, escaping the gaze. "I killed him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remus and Alastor did," the former Headmaster pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By my instructions. That makes it my responsibility as much as
      if I had struck a pole through his heart myself. Well,
      <em class="calibre8">more</em>, since that wouldn't have killed him, technically. He
      died by my hand, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose that that is true." The old wizard looked
      sympathetic, as though he understood completely what Harry was
      feeling despite having desired this death for many years. "But
      Harry, he <em class="calibre8">chose</em> this demise. He <em class="calibre8">chose</em> to split
      his soul, and kill so many people as to leave you no other
      option!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's always another option!" Harry growled. "Maybe if I were
      smarter, or knew the whole picture or had other abilities, I would
      have seen a better way. And it's <em class="calibre8">not</em> just him! What about
      all those other people I led to their deaths? Lucius was a good
      father, Remus a good instructor and kind friend. And all those
      people on Dark Monday, do you think they would have been Kissed if
      I hadn't screwed up and given Riddle all the information he
      needed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your responsibility in those deaths was <em class="calibre8">very</em> small,
      Harry," the old wizard spoke sternly. "Your allies knew what they
      were risking, and they chose to follow you regardless. And as for
      the others who died – yes, it was a tragedy, and it might not have
      happened if you had never figured out how to destroy Dementors, but
      Voldemort would simply have struck elsewhere, and over the years,
      those Dementors have caused more harm than in the day you and your
      friends destroyed them. I will not tell you not to blame yourself,
      Harry – I know how pointless that would be – but be
      reasonable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am entirely reasonable," Harry answered. "It is reasonable to
      regret their deaths, and to look for any possibilities to undo as
      many of those as possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard just shook his head sadly. "You should fight for
      the living, Harry, not obsess over those who have passed away. I
      will support you in enabling non-magical medical experiments, if
      only to promote your peace of mind, but I beg you: do not waste
      your life on a fool's errand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't <em class="calibre8">know</em> it's a fool's errand," Harry said
      wearily. "I have no idea whether anyone has ever tried to resurrect
      people before – I guess they probably have, it's just
      <em class="calibre8">stupid</em> not to when there's magic in the world – but with
      Muggle science I have a lot more tools at my disposal than those
      who have tried before. And don't give me that look. Must we really
      have this discussion again? I don't intend to die, or for anyone
      else to die, and I don't intend to let people stay dead
      either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew how you felt, Harry," the old wizard said slowly. "I can
      even appreciate wanting to stop people from dying while they don't
      yet want to go – in fact, I told myself that even if the goal of
      your quest is misguided, it might yet lead you to find great
      healing methods, or magical defenses like the Elder Wand. If your
      Patronus is any example of what can be achieved by rejecting death,
      I am eager to see more. But <em class="calibre8">resurrection</em>, Harry, that is a
      different matter. If you focus on the dead, you will achieve no
      good for the living! What is more, when you seek a way to undo
      death, the prospect of failure will only become worse as you grow
      older, while for mere immortality, the idea will become less
      daunting over time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gazed back at him. There was some sense in the words, he
      had to admit. At least in parts of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand what you're saying, Professor," he said
      eventually. "And I'm not stupid. I won't become a hermit and throw
      away my life on a single project that might turn out to be a dead
      end. I understand that the laws of the universe might make
      resurrection a fundamentally impossible venture. I <em class="calibre8">will</em> do
      what I can immediately with the bodies of the people who have the
      greatest chance of being saved, though. I'm not about to give up
      without at least having <em class="calibre8">tried</em>. I also fully intend to
      encourage people to do what they can to preserve or save life – or
      preserve the chance of future recovery as well as possible." He
      shrugged. "But I'll prioritize working on immortality for the
      people who didn't die in the first place, and also don't mind
      taking some time out of my schedule to see about world peace and
      the other minor issues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore chuckled. Harry fixed him with a firm look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">However</em>," he added, "as for me being
      <em class="calibre8">misguided</em>, I am not so sure that you are talking to the
      right person. Honestly, I think you're lying to yourself. Lying on
      such a fundamental level that you don't even realize it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man's eyes widened only slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you consider," Harry asked seriously, "and I mean
      <em class="calibre8">actually consider</em> for five full minutes the scenario that
      you're wrong? That there isn't an afterlife; you just cease to be
      when you die, that every death is like a Dementor's Kiss. And then
      suppose that there is a way that wizards and Muggles might find,
      that gives you the ability to live forever... wouldn't you take
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence, for some time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poppy told me this morning," the old wizard spoke eventually,
      "that she longed to see a twinkle in my eye again. And I daresay
      that in time, she will, for great things have happened in the last
      two days, and as the days pass by, there will surely be small
      diversions and innocent laughter again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does that –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But regardless," the old wizard pressed on, "I have still lived
      through all these things. Three wars, Harry, not counting Muggle
      wars that I was not involved in. I have lost too many. So many
      friends. All of my family. Some died to age or accident, some to my
      follies, some even died by my own hand. And there are others, whom
      I killed or let die, some evil perhaps, some not. All precious. And
      no matter what else may happen, I will always carry that grief,
      that guilt, in my heart. So no, I do not wish to live with that
      grief forever, even if the alternative is the Dementor's Kiss. I
      shall carry on while I am still needed, but when death comes, I
      shall not resist it. Or if my dying would serve a greater purpose
      than my living, well..." He smiled weakly. "You already know that
      answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, a lump in his throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a while, neither of them spoke. Finally, Harry broke the
      silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's something else I wanted to talk about, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard sat back and folded his hands. "Go ahead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you speak Latin? Or do you know of a reliable person who
      does, and who has some time available? I know you're a busy man,
      especially since I kind of set your schedule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The time for what, exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From his pouch, Harry retrieved the diary of Francis Bacon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Defense Professor gave me this, months ago. He told me he
      stole it, but he didn't say who from and he wasn't going to put it
      back. We should probably return it, if there's a way to figure out
      the owner, but I'd <em class="calibre8">reaeaeaeaeaeally</em> like a copy first.
      It's the diary of Roger Bacon, you see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This failed to produce the desired response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a key figure in the history of science," Harry explained
      with an internal grumble of having expected a wizard to understand.
      "Apparently he was a Muggleborn wizard, born in the middle ages.
      This could be really important, and is absolutely, undeniably,
      really <em class="calibre8">really</em> interesting. It's a priceless historical
      artifact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you expect that it will say something about a tree,"
      Dumbledore concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Perhaps the location of a favorite tree where he used to
      daydream or something. Riddle would have read it before giving it
      to me, and he might have used a specific place to hide some clue
      for me. He used his <em class="calibre8">last breath</em> to tell me about it,"
      Harry pointed out. "It's bound to be important."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To him, yes." The old wizard carefully took the diary in his
      hands and rifled through it. "I shall read this tonight – I should
      be able to find the time. But I urge you to be very wary. Whatever
      we find might well be a trap to kill you after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To what purpose?" Harry shrugged. "If we are right, he's dead.
      He doesn't benefit from killing me anymore." <em class="calibre8">Or from anything
      else I might do, for that matter.</em> Considering that, it
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> strange that he might try to reach beyond the
      grave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" The old wizard raised an eyebrow. "Do you fully understand
      his motives, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I do." Harry stared ahead. He had had a whole day to
      think about it, after all. "Although there's a lot to it. He's been
      adapting his plans with every new bit of information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Headmaster quirked an eyebrow and put the diary
      aside. "I should like to hear about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was afraid of death," Harry said simply. "In the end you
      were right about that part. He was <em class="calibre8">so</em> afraid of death that
      it possessed his being, that he would consider any alternative over
      dying." Before falling asleep, he had remembered the feeling when
      he had asked his dark side's opinion on death, in the sombre
      corridors of Azkaban. Riddle, if the part of his personality that
      resided in Harry was anything to go by, was absolutely
      <em class="calibre8">terrified</em> of non-existence. "And I can completely agree
      with that, but he <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> care about other people's
      existence; just his own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he made his Horcruxes," Harry continued. "But it wasn't
      enough. Even making a round dozen and sending some of them out to
      space would never be enough. Not while there was a risk of the
      complete annihilation of earth. It's great being immortal, but you
      need to have somewhere to <em class="calibre8">live</em> too, and I don't think he
      really fancied being a wandering spirit stuck on a dead pile of
      rubble forever floating through space."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he feared Muggles," Dumbledore nodded. "Like you concluded
      before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. But it wasn't <em class="calibre8">war</em> he feared, I should have
      realized that. His vehement response about nuclear weapons was
      merely an <em class="calibre8">example</em>, a case of Muggle stupidity he
      encountered in his formative years, but ultimately not the main
      issue. Complete nuclear annihilation was a known risk, something a
      powerful wizard like he could <em class="calibre8">control</em>. I'm pretty sure he
      at least had warning spells on existing missiles, probably along
      with some well-placed Imperiuses. Nor was there ever much risk in a
      war between wizards and Muggles: there would be heavy casualties,
      but wizards could hide out. What he feared was all the unknowns of
      scientific development. There are so many ways people could blow up
      human society by accident... There wasn't really an
      <em class="calibre8">immediate</em> danger, but then, even reading scientific
      journals he might not pick up on a new existential risk in time to
      do something about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard looked considering. "Which is why he wanted to
      rule the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. I doubt he really cared much about ruling, but he wanted
      there to <em class="calibre8">be</em> a world. So he did the obvious thing: he
      created a terrible dark threat, so wizards would put aside their
      squabbling and unite against the common enemy. And for the dark
      wizard he took a platform that the most irrational people, the
      greatest losers, could unite behind. He was setting the blood
      supremacists up to be defeated, which would have created the best
      opportunity to build a rational, undivided government
      afterwards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that didn't work out," Dumbledore concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry agreed. "It didn't. Turns out it's actually very
      hard to get people to unite. A common enemy is a good first step,
      but people will drag their feet on acting as long as it seems
      they'll get away with it. People weren't going to unite behind
      David Monroe, so he retired him and made the dark lord threat
      worse, so a new hero could rise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which would be you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I think it was meant to be you, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Strength flows from powerful wizards and their
      followers</em>, that's what he told me. What he wanted was a strong
      leader. When Yermy Wibble called for a draft, it actually got
      pretty close to what Riddle wanted, but <em class="calibre8">he</em> would never
      have been a strong enough leader. So the dark lord 'set an
      example', to discourage weak people from stepping into shoes they
      could never fill. A powerful wizard would not be so easily cowed.
      And indeed, in the end a very powerful wizard <em class="calibre8">did</em> step up
      to lead the war efforts, when it became clear that no one else
      would. Unfortunately, the wizard in question did <em class="calibre8">not</em> call
      for a draft, or institute a light mark."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never sought to rule," Dumbledore breathed. "Not since I was
      young, not after Gellert –" He shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He might have hoped he could fix that," Harry shrugged. "Didn't
      the war teach you to weigh your pieces for their value, to make the
      rational rather than the emotional choice? You thought he was being
      cruel for cruelty's sake, but in reality he was shaping you into a
      better leader."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore shut his eyes, grief covering his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that didn't work either," Harry said quietly. "Truth be
      told, you're a bit of a hopeless case. You started out with
      powerful ideals, and even if you had to compromise them out of
      need, you'll never give them up completely. I think Riddle
      understands people very well overall, but he has trouble with
      people who genuinely care about others and try to do what is right
      for altruistic reasons. He can't predict people like Hermione, or
      like you, as accurately as others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But surely he could never have thought that I would come to
      subjugate Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wouldn't need to," Harry explained. "Just change the
      pattern of the world. He was handing you Britain on a silver
      platter. If you were willing to compromise more, destroy your
      enemies and show your strength – if you had forced, manipulated or
      even actively encouraged people to join the fight, or done
      something brutal but effective like forcing all Hogwarts students
      to declare under Veritaserum that they were not aware of their
      family being involved with the Death Eaters – you could have
      appealed to the Slytherin side of the population as well as the
      Gryffindors who already sing you as their hero. It would have been
      easy for you to unite the country and become dictator in practice
      if not in name. With the blood purist side heavily discredited, you
      could have made massive reforms and led the country into an era of
      peace and prosperity. However, you're old. Eventually, you would
      have died – quite possibly with some help – and that would leave a
      power gap. The road would be open for a new dictator to take over,
      since the example was already there. And Riddle would have made
      sure he moved into that gap, and then he could have set his further
      plans in motion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard breathed deeply. "But that didn't happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry agreed. "You weren't cooperating. But then something
      unexpected happened: a new hero was prophesied. I'm still not sure
      whether that was real or he faked it, but in the end I don't think
      it matters much. He made his move to fulfill the prophecy one way,
      and to be <em class="calibre8">seen</em> to fulfill it the other way. He turned the
      child who would be his nemesis into a horcrux and then set off some
      magical effect that killed him and gave me that scar. The wizarding
      world got its miracle and could rebuild, while a ready-made hero
      was there to grow into the future leader."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's eyes had widened and his mouth was open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione came up with the horcrux idea," Harry clarified. "It
      seemed to fit with the story you found of the child possessed by an
      ambulatory wizard. But I don't know whether it's accurate." He
      shrugged. "This part is really guesswork; I just don't know enough
      about horcruxes, souls and possession to make a prediction I'd be
      remotely sure about. But there are multiple theories that would fit
      the data. For a start, you said that a painting horcrux would
      reflect the intelligence and personality of the owner, so it seems
      plausible that a human horcrux would create a permanent kind of
      possession by the intelligence in the horcrux. However, I would
      have needed to convincingly act like a child for ten years, so
      perhaps he only copied his personality, not his memories. Or he
      Obliviated me afterwards, if that was possible without magical
      interference. He arranged for a high probability that I would grow
      up in similar circumstances as he had."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore just kept staring, his face horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That also didn't work out," Harry said simply, but he didn't
      meet the old wizard's gaze, as he wasn't entirely sure how he felt
      about this particular theory. "Perhaps because I was too young: I
      was a growing child, my brain was going through <em class="calibre8">massive</em>
      developments at the time. I suspect my consciousness ended up
      absorbing his, and my mind became my own. His influence is still
      <em class="calibre8">there</em>, but it cannot control me unless I get angry, or
      recently only when I let it. It does sort of feel like a separate
      entity, but it doesn't have a mind of its own and it cannot possess
      me; it's simply a different way I sometimes <em class="calibre8">am</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore shook himself. "I admit this is a much better
      explanation than the one I had before, although it is...
      concerning. Are you comfortable with this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grimaced. "It's not like I can change it. I am who I am. I
      do hope you're not going to kill me?" Perhaps he shouldn't have
      told the man about this possibility, but it was entirely likely
      that he would eventually figure it out regardless. Better to break
      the news now, while the man was still under his power, and
      <em class="calibre8">after</em> reminding the old wizard of his ideals and telling
      him that Voldemort's plans involved turning him into a killer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man shook his head. "I can't see it helping much,
      especially since it seems he was quite prepared to kill you
      himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry nodded. "Even if he's still around, he undoubtedly
      has too many horcruxes for any individual one to matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded. "So his plan failed. Again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry agreed. "Although in his defense, the plans weren't
      so bad, it's just really kind of hard to conquer the world and get
      it in a state where everyone accepts that situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I wasn't accusing," the old wizard smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, he came to Hogwarts in the same year I would," Harry
      continued. "Where he must have quickly realized the plan hadn't
      <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> gone as planned. But it was close enough: I wasn't
      a young version of him, but I <em class="calibre8">did</em> end up smart and
      ambitious, and somewhat isolated from other children. So he became
      my mentor, to guide my thinking along the desirable lines, where I
      would eventually <em class="calibre8">want</em> to rule the world. He might have
      succeeded without Hermione pulling me back, or if he'd had more
      time before I figured him out. As it was, he was pretty far along,
      seeing as I did in fact want to overthrow the government of magical
      Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which you did," the old wizard observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well yes. Anyway, since I was removed from his mentoring, he
      had to move quickly, before other people influenced the direction
      of my ambitions too much. Therefore, he started a war. It was
      always only a matter of time before the Statute of Secrecy would
      come plummeting down; with technology improving and magic
      degenerating, I don't think we could have kept up the masquerade
      for more than another twenty, maybe thirty years. So he must have
      had dozens of safety precautions in place, and that's why he felt
      safe starting it <em class="calibre8">now</em>. It started very violently, but I
      think that he could easily have kept tensions going for years if
      necessary, like so many conflict areas, or like the ten year war in
      Britain. A war with Muggles would create many opportunities for me
      to prove myself, and I was always going to make a large move
      eventually, because whether or not I want to rule the world, I do
      want to stop people dying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you rose to the challenge rather earlier than
      expected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I'm not sure about that," Harry contradicted him. "He
      always did have rather high expectations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you said he knew you," Dumbledore noted. "Why would he
      expect you to subjugate Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think that's what he had in mind," Harry shrugged.
      "More likely, he intended me to act the way Lucius expected. I
      would bring peace – with his cooperation, I should be able to pull
      that off. That, combined with my past, would give me a <em class="calibre8">lot</em>
      of credit, which would allow me to rise to a leading position in
      the political landscape, and earn the respect from Muggles too.
      Since there's a lot more things I want to do, I probably wouldn't
      be able to stop myself from using that influence, and over time, I
      would be able to become the strong leader he desired all along. And
      then I could either rise naturally to a dictatorship over both
      worlds, or set the golden example of a benevolent magical dictator,
      to be replaced after my eventual demise by someone more suitable to
      his plans. That, or I'd manage to encourage the space program well
      enough to allow wizards to escape the earth before Muggles destroy
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see." Dumbledore frowned. "And yet you didn't. You held that
      potential, and you deliberately threw it away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not trust myself enough for such authority," Harry
      answered simply. "I don't think I'd trust <em class="calibre8">anyone</em> like
      that. Democracy is not a very good solution, but at least it stops
      the more extreme imbalances of power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't fear the destruction of the world, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I do! And I do intend to prepare for that. But there
      is one thing that Riddle never understood, or at least never
      believed in." He sat up a little straighter. "People can
      <em class="calibre8">learn</em>. The failures of democracy are not so much because
      people are selfish, but because they are <em class="calibre8">stupid</em>. There's
      loads of experimental studies showing how people's minds go wrong
      and make terrible mistakes that might work great in a tribal
      environment but not really in the current world. Professor Quirrell
      always got cynical about that sort of thing. But I believe it can
      be fixed, and I'm planning to use the influence I hold now to do
      just that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard looked intrigued. "How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Many ways," Harry said. "The first was the requirement for a
      caution course that any scientist working with magic is obliged to
      pass. Since magic is likely to become a large part of many
      sciences, I suspect the course will end up making its way into
      standard undergraduate curricula, which means that even those
      scientists and engineers who only work with strictly Muggle
      methodology will be aware of it. Once this becomes standard, there
      will probably be a large discussion on the <em class="calibre8">publish or
      perish</em> culture, which wizards can fuel and – judging by my
      father's opinions – Muggle scientists will almost certainly back us
      on completely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not think too lightly on what 'wizards' will do," Dumbledore
      warned him. "We are not all of a single mind. You will almost
      certainly need to push the issue yourself, or at least encourage
      your allies to do so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the other part," Harry said. "I'll still be in the
      Wizengamot, and so will Draco be once he's of age, but I'm hoping
      you will cooperate on fixing the problem from the wizard side as
      well. There's fewer of us, but I expect we'll be very visible as
      sub-culture, so we can can set an example. When Hogwarts is
      rebuilt, I want science and rationality to be put into the new
      curriculum as a mandatory course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Headmaster frowned. "I'm not sure –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You already approved something very close," Harry pointed out.
      "When you hired my father as a temporary Professor. What do you
      think he was teaching? He never got more than a single week, and it
      was only an elective class, but it's the same idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The curriculum is already very full, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So add a year! Perhaps you could even add Muggle electives like
      French or maths if an extra year gives you too much time to
      spare."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard looked very grave now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just think about it," Harry urged. "Now that we're going to
      have closer ties to the Muggle world, teaching wizards the style of
      thinking and methodology of science would be a <em class="calibre8">really good
      idea</em>. Many of those students are going to be working together
      with Muggle scientists later. As for rationality, if we can teach
      all children to think properly and not just believe things through
      some crazy pattern-matching scheme, then in twenty years you'll
      have a Wizengamot whose members would <em class="calibre8">actually realize</em>
      that someone like Hermione Granger probably didn't commit a
      cold-blooded murder. And if they encountered someone who did,
      they'd still be able to think about such things as <em class="calibre8">proportional
      response</em> and reintegration in society rather than going with
      gut feelings of revenge. I know you yourself haven't had this
      training, Professor, but you must also see that the gains to the
      world would be tremendous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose..." the old wizard said slowly. "But did our enemy
      himself not think 'rationally', as you describe it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He did," Harry conceded. "But he was... special. <em class="calibre8">Cold.</em>
      Besides, in a world where a substantial portion of people think
      rationally, even he would not have felt a need to act as he did.
      When everyone thinks properly, all you need to make people work
      towards your goal is to shift circumstances so that it advantages
      the people you want to influence – which in his case would be very
      easy, as his goal of not getting the earth destroyed was pretty
      much good for everyone. Because most people <em class="calibre8">don't</em> think
      like that, he decided that the only way was to manipulate them
      through fear and narrative expectations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard. "Very well. If Hogwarts is rebuilt – and I must
      warn that it might well take years, and will only be a semblance of
      its former self – and if I am still Headmaster at the time, I will
      do as you ask."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore leaned forward and picked up the diary again, rifling
      through it and casting a number of spells. "At first glance, it is
      strictly non-magical, but more tests will be necessary to be
      sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think there's much of a hurry. But will you study it,
      or get someone else to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man looked weary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do keep in mind that it's almost certainly a trap –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps. But for now, I'm not asking for anything to be
      <em class="calibre8">done</em>, I just want to know what information we have. If the
      diary contains a hint as to some kind of location, I'll ask
      volunteers to go look there, and it's not like we could make sure
      people stay away from such a location forever anyway. I will be
      sure to consult you on safety measures, as long as those safety
      measures do not involve me <em class="calibre8">not knowing</em> certain things. Can
      you live with that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard sighed. "Very well, then. Let us see what Tom
      Riddle intends us to do."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Marielle sat still in her cell, reading quietly. She wasn't
      allowed a wand, or her Time-Turner when she wasn't forced to use
      it, but while she was well-behaved she could at least peruse her
      school books and was fed three meals a day. Not that the
      arrangement was necessary to keep her in line; the moment she
      stirred out of bounds that madwoman would be allowed to <em class="calibre8">deal
      with her</em>. She'd been thinking of becoming an Auror, before,
      but if she ever got out of here – and she was losing more hope of
      that with every passing day – she was going to research alternative
      career paths. After two tastes of the Cruciatus Curse, she was not
      about to risk ever being on the wrong side of dark wizards
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, a blinding silvery-white light appeared. A
      <em class="calibre8">Patronus</em>? No, it couldn't be, the human shape was
      impossible. And yet, what else could it be?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman on the other side of the bars looked at the thing with
      an expression of wonder, which baffled Marielle more than its
      presence. The woman reached out a hand to touch the glowing man,
      and it spoke:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello mother. It's me, your son Lesath. The Aurors have sworn
      that if you surrender, you won't be harmed, and you won't be sent
      back to the Dementors either. You don't have to if you're in a
      better place now, but if you're stuck wherever you are, please
      consider it. I don't want you to die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman stared at the magical creature and opened and shut her
      mouth several times, before she finally asked the question
      Marielle, too, was struggling to wrap her mind around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a son?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">-o-o-o-o-o-</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> the amulet introduced in the
      last two chapters has been a matter of some question in discussions
      and reviews, so I figured I'd give my ideas on its history...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Merlin made the amulet to allow the king a modicum of control
      over their wizards, but not ultimate control: it <em class="calibre8">limits</em>
      their power, but doesn't take it away altogether. A single dark
      lord, or a small group of magic users, cannot just go after the
      king, because the latter will limit their power and then the king's
      own wizards will be able to overpower him. However, a <em class="calibre8">bad</em>
      king (or at least, one who treats wizards badly) would quickly be
      overthrown, since wizards can still band together at half power and
      be strong enough to take out the army; they couldn't kill him with
      magic, but they could simply cut the head off with a sword.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Queen, of course, does not descend directly from King
      Arthur, which is the king Merlin would have given his amulet to.
      The English crown has been passed on through a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of war,
      murder, betrayal and whatnot. However, in the days before the
      Statute of Secrecy, the existence of the amulet would be known
      among the higher nobility and their wizards. I imagine the people
      taking the crown would generally be at least moderately aware of
      the amulet – and if not, they might recognize that a precious jewel
      that glows is obviously magical, and inquire. Even if wizards were
      reluctant to give information, a king could torture it out of close
      relatives of the last king.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, such a way of passing the information is faulty, and
      at some point, the instructions on <em class="calibre8">how</em> to use the amulet
      were lost. Still, knowing as little as "protection from and control
      over magic users" (the general explanation that a king might leak
      to friends and family members) would definitely be a good reason to
      keep passing it on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As someone on the reddit pointed out (and I like this suggestion
      so much I might consider it canon): given the desirability of an
      amulet that gives you power over and protection from magic users,
      it is entirely likely that it was the <em class="calibre8">reason</em> for the
      bloody succession of English royalty!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle did not know about the amulet: it was extremely obscure
      knowledge about a magical item that can be used only by a single
      person who doesn't even know about it in a somewhat local setting
      (parts of Britain following boundaries no one can figure out
      anymore). Even Thicknesse, who worked for the Ministry for all his
      adult life and made it his business to know all the laws and
      workings of the country had only heard of the <em class="calibre8">law</em> that the
      monarch was above them, not about the item itself. Then again, in
      the end, the effect of the amulet was very small. Given the limits
      to its functionality – restricting magical power, rather than
      blocking it altogether – it cannot really win a battle on its own,
      although it <em class="calibre8">can</em> turn the tide.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
