<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 114: The Deathly Hallows, Pt 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s34" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 114: The Deathly Hallows, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">CHAPTER 114: THE DEATHLY HALLOWS, PT
      1<br class="calibre4"/></strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, turned the stone over three times in his hand, and
      spoke: "Cadmus Peverell".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stone glowed warm in his hand and a mist formed, which
      twisted and turned until it settled on the shape of a man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Néade sé bregus ongrataþ on þín dæg."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grimaced and turned to Professor Dumbledore. "I forgot
      about that part. I don't suppose you have a sequence of portraits
      spanning from time the Peverells lived to the present, with
      two-century gaps so they can translate from each other?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard quirked an eyebrow and turned to one of the
      devices on his desk. After a few seconds of prodding and
      whispering, the Grey Lady, Ravenclaw's house ghost, appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Helena," the old wizard spoke gently. "I apologize for
      disturbing you today, but I find myself in need of someone of your
      expertise. As you may notice, we have a... guest, from a very
      distant past. I believe he died about two to three centuries before
      you were born. Would you be willing to help us with some
      translations today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am honor-bound to serve the Headmaster of Hogwarts," the
      young woman said crisply, in perfect English. "I will help you,
      even though there is little left to be a Headmaster of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am grateful, Helena." He turned to Harry, who was suddenly
      realizing that, unlike the portraits, <em class="calibre8">all</em> the ghosts he
      knew spoke modern English, no matter when they had died. Were
      ghosts capable of learning somehow, or was it a part of their magic
      to update their language over time? "Helena is Rowena Ravenclaw's
      daughter, who has always been an accomplished woman with a solid
      grasp of the literature of her time, which makes her familiar with
      the language shifts from well before her birth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ghostly woman turned to the specter hovering before Harry,
      who was looking at the three of them with a curious gaze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hálettung," she spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Néade sé bregus ongrataþ on þín dæg," the man repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He says hello," she translated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah.</em> "Euhm... I am Harry James Potter-Evans Verres; for
      what I'm told, I'm a descendant from your brother Ignotus," Harry
      introduced himself. "I was wondering whether you could tell me what
      exactly this stone does."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter gave him a searching look, as Helena Ravenclaw
      translated this introduction. Then, it chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An interesting question. Most ask for <em class="calibre8">how</em>, not
      <em class="calibre8">what</em>." His dark eyes looked Harry over. "You do not at all
      look like a Peverell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well, a few generations have passed," Harry answered dryly
      when Helena had provided this translation. "For what I'm told, it's
      been about eleven hundred years since you died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter's eyes widened. "That <em class="calibre8">is</em> a long time. Can
      you prove that you are truly a descendant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Does it matter?</em> Harry wondered, but he didn't really
      want to argue with a vision that was probably just the product of
      his own imagination. Instead, he reached inside his pouch and drew
      forth the Cloak of Invisibility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you recognize this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He waited as "Cadmus Peverell" studied the cloak, then threw it
      around himself to demonstrate its functionality. The specter
      nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then, heir of Ignotus, the stone simply retrieves the
      chosen soul from the ether, and gives it shape and speech according
      to what the soul itself would expect. The soul stays bound to the
      stone until dismissed, or until it chooses to depart – provided it
      is capable of such choices."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Questions flooded Harry's mind. This was <em class="calibre8">not</em> an answer
      that seemed like it would have been drawn from his own
      expectations. "Why wouldn't it be capable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Disembodied souls cannot have original thoughts," the specter
      clarified, "nor change their minds once they are settled. You need
      a body to accommodate change." He smirked. "But before you get any
      ideas, you will not find <em class="calibre8">me</em> that easy to manipulate. I
      have considered many eventualities before my death, and as such, my
      mind is made up with regards to my responses to all situations I
      could envision."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, don't worry," Harry reassured the ghost. "I don't intend to
      manipulate you, I just want to understand." <em class="calibre8">Well, for now
      anyway.</em> "What exactly do you mean by a 'soul'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The image frowned, and Helena's ghost frowned at him as she
      translated his answer. "Has knowledge degenerated so far in this
      time that you have to ask such a fundamental question?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I just want to make sure I get the right
      answer, and you seem to be an expert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A soul is all that a person is," the image answered. "Memories,
      personality, intellect, inclination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if that is laid out in the soul, then how can brain damage
      affect it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The image frowned again. "I am not sure I understand your
      question. Are you asking how the body can affect the soul?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Euhm, yes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not sure of the mechanics, exactly, but the soul is
      naturally shaped and influenced by the body it inhabits. Why would
      you imagine it to be immutable? The body – or rather, the brain –
      is what makes you think, gives you character. The soul is what
      preserves it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's heart sank as he parsed the meaning of those words. "Are
      you telling me that if someone rams a piece of metal through your
      head and you end up with a damaged brain that turns you more
      aggressive, then it will change your <em class="calibre8">immortal soul</em> so
      you'll be damaged for all eternity? And, and if you get Alzheimer's
      disease – I mean, if you go senile – you'll be stuck like that
      <em class="calibre8">forever</em>?" Technically, in the view of the world he'd held
      so far, it was already the case that if you got the wrong kind of
      brain damage you'd be affected for the rest of your life, and
      living in a damaged state still seemed preferable over not living,
      but even so, it didn't take Harry more than a few seconds to see
      the implications. If the soul was affected by the body, it meant
      that the moment someone would show the beginnings of mental
      disease, the <em class="calibre8">right</em> and <em class="calibre8">proper</em> thing to do was to
      kill them before it got worse. Hell, if there genuinely was an
      afterlife, you should probably just kill people the moment they
      were fully developed, before anything could happen that would
      adversely affect their soul...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not quite," Peverell answered with a wry smile. "I see that you
      think somewhat like my brothers and I used to do, but you are
      woefully ignorant. The soul alters itself gradually along with the
      body, but sudden, outside changes are not immediately reflected in
      it. Over time, it causes strife when body and soul are not united,
      so eventually the soul must either adapt or move on. However, this
      process can take many years depending on the shift in the brain,
      which should leave ample time to repair the issue when a young
      person is concerned. What is more, the deficits of old age mostly
      <em class="calibre8">lose</em> parts of a person's character, intellect and
      memories, rather than truly <em class="calibre8">changing</em> them, and as such the
      stress on the soul to retain its original facilities is
      significantly smaller. Indeed, I find that most of the souls I
      tested with – Muggles and wizards alike – remembered events with
      greater clarity than their bodies did, even though they were slow
      to form new memories. Of course, living for many years in a
      degenerating body <em class="calibre8">does</em> take its toll, but you could
      imagine the soul of a deceased to be that which the person would
      have been if all the abilities they lost were restored in the
      moment before their death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mind whirled. The words promised hope. If all this was
      true, he might really see his parents again – all of them –, might
      see <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> again. Most people who ever lived were
      probably still <em class="calibre8">there</em>, waiting to see him in some kind of
      afterlife...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. He stamped down on that line of thought before it could run
      away with him. He shouldn't give himself false hope, only to have
      it destroyed <em class="calibre8">again</em>. He was jumping to unwarranted
      conclusions. What was he really seeing here? The image of Cadmus
      Peverell and the strange things it said might well have been built
      directly into the stone, in case anyone should ask for a
      clarification. Or in fact –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned around to Professor Dumbledore, who had silently sat
      down behind his desk. Harry wasn't entirely sure what Dumbledore
      thought about souls, or whether he even <em class="calibre8">had</em> a complete
      picture, but Peverell <em class="calibre8">did</em> seem to be channeling much the
      same ideas as those Dumbledore had stated before. If the stone
      merely created an image from your mind, the specter could well be
      drawing on the old wizard's expectations rather than his own, or
      even from both. The way to test whether the stone <em class="calibre8">actually</em>
      summoned a person's soul was to find someone who had died with
      secrets whose veracity could be confirmed in the real world –
      assuming they would not mind telling either Dumbledore or himself
      those secrets. It probably couldn't be gained from someone who'd
      died this long ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, there was a real, non-zero chance that the vision was
      telling truth, and he had many more questions, including some which
      the former Headmaster might <em class="calibre8">not</em> have an answer to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Cruciatus Curse," he demanded from Dumbledore. "It leaves
      people permanently insane. Would you say that means they
      <em class="calibre8">lose</em> something, or they actually get <em class="calibre8">new</em>
      behaviors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both," the man said quietly. "But primarily the former, I
      believe. The change in behavior is the result of confusion more
      than anything else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Cruciatus Curse, if held too long, induces a form of
      senility," Peverell nodded when the ghost of Helena translated the
      interaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if –" Harry began, "<em class="calibre8">suppose</em> a couple were tortured
      into insanity by the Cruciatus Curse, and they are in their early
      twenties which means they probably have at least a century left to
      live... they'll be okay after they die?" This line of questioning
      was potentially dangerous in Dumbledore's presence, but if the
      stone didn't actually summon souls, he'd be able to prove it soon
      enough, and the Chief Warlock was unlikely to act rashly upon the
      information. All the more so because he was still legally Harry's
      servant, as Harry had not officially released the House Vows – and
      while he had removed the magical bonds at the first opportunity, he
      hadn't actually <em class="calibre8">told</em> Dumbledore and Thicknesse about
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter gave him a piercing look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's little <em class="calibre8">okay</em> about being dead, but their souls
      may still personify who they once were. A hundred years is a long
      time, however. The soul would almost certainly be affected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So..." Harry summarized. "In a case like this, it would be
      immoral <em class="calibre8">not</em> to kill those people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry –" Dumbledore began in a horrified tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter frowned. "I suppose in the case of Muggles it might
      be preferable, if the risk of altering the body is deemed too
      great... I would not wish to persist in such a state even
      regardless of the consequences to my soul. But when Healers are
      available, when the magic is not yet lost, it would seem
      extraordinarily wasteful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Are you implying that, in your time, people
      turned mad by the Cruciatus Curse could be cured?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peverell's eyebrows flew up. "Are you implying that, in your
      time, they cannot?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Professor Dumbledore said gravely. The man had stood
      up and was now looking at the appearance with a strange expression
      on his face. "We have lost much of our art, over the centuries. I
      could not begin to think how such a feat might be achieved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You transfer the person's mind from their body to their magic,
      creating a spirit," Cadmus explained. "Then move the spirit out of
      the body for security. Assuming extensive testing to locate the
      seat of the brain-damage, you can then use mind-altering charms to
      bring the brain back in line with the soul. You can do it without
      the spirit step, which would of course be necessary for Muggles,
      but then you run a small risk of affecting the soul, as mind magic
      is a dangerous field which can have irreversible
      repercussions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Dumbledore spoke. "I can see why that information was
      lost. It would be too dangerous to lightly pass on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I suppose this falls under the category 'powerful spells'
      which the Interdict of Merlin stops you from teaching us?" Harry
      questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ghostly man smiled sadly. "Indeed; the stone cannot bypass
      that. However, I would not lightly do so regardless. I am more than
      happy to explain things of little importance – especially
      trivialities which in my time even the smallest of children knew –
      but I hope I do not offend when I say that I see no reason to trust
      you with anything dangerous, distant family or not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked. <em class="calibre8">Of course we cannot</em> actually <em class="calibre8">learn
      anything new from this.</em> "I am not offended, sir. And I hope
      <em class="calibre8">I</em> do not offend when I say that I see no reason to believe
      you are anything but a figment of my imagination anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The corners of the specter's mouth twitched upwards. "Not to be
      lightly convinced, I see. Why would you doubt?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, for a start, I never really believed that souls existed,
      before, and I haven't seen any evidence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man looked intrigued. "But they do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, but can you <em class="calibre8">prove</em> that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man frowned, looking confused. Harry started to wreck his
      mind for ways to explain the concept, but then stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He said that he cannot have original thoughts, or change his
      mind. If he grew up believing in souls, and everyone around him
      held the same beliefs, he may not be able to wrap his mind around
      the idea of someone who doesn't share them. That is, if he was
      telling the truth, in which case he's right and I'm wrong. If he's
      just a vision made from our expectations, there's no point
      reasoning with him anyway.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that was a strange idea, too. How could you be the same
      person, without the ability to change your mind or come up with
      original thoughts? What exactly counted as an "original thought"?
      The man <em class="calibre8">had</em> contemplated the novel idea of killing someone
      who was crucioed into insanity, so he wasn't limited to simply
      answering questions from memory. Would he be able to solve logical
      puzzles? Would the soul of a mathematician be able to write proofs
      as long as they did not involve new proof techniques?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To give a different answer, then," he spoke carefully. "I don't
      fully understand it. Even with your explanation of what a soul is,
      I cannot make predictions as to how it will behave in any given
      experiment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus Peverell shrugged. "I believe I understood my brothers
      better than anyone, yet when I asked them what they wanted for
      dinner, I could not always predict the answer. This does not mean
      they didn't exist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, that was a bad argument," Harry admitted. Just
      because he didn't have the full picture didn't mean that the
      <em class="calibre8">theory</em> was false. It could merely mean he needed to
      experiment more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's move on. What happens to the soul after the body
      dies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It goes into the ether," Cadmus replied. "There, they cannot
      feel, hear, think... just drift. Centuries can pass by almost
      unnoticed, as sense of time disappears much like in sleep. There is
      nothing, in short, unless the soul is called back by the stone or
      similar magic, or unless the person in life has chosen to stay
      behind as a ghost, and there is a large enough outburst of magic at
      the time of their death to anchor them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's eyes widened. "There is no afterlife?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus smirked. "Always people jump to conclusions. They see the
      soul and assume it has a destiny, some greater life beyond the
      current. No, there is nothing beyond the here and now. If there
      was, why would anyone disapprove of murder?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But then..." the old man protested. "How can there be justice?
      Why should there even <em class="calibre8">be</em> a soul if there is nothing for it
      to go on to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is no inherent justice in the universe," Harry said
      tiredly. "There's just us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although actually, Dumbledore had a point. For what Peverell had
      said, the soul had no function at all besides preserving someone's
      personality and memories, which were rooted in their brain – or
      apparently, in the case of a spirit, in their magic – while they
      lived, and which was pointless when they died. Why would there be a
      soul if it didn't <em class="calibre8">do</em> anything? How would something like
      that even evolve, or if it was created, what intelligent designer
      would make something so useless?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are both right," the ghostly figure answered with a smile.
      "I am not certain – I have studied the literature extensively but
      there wasn't much to go on – but it seems likely that the soul was
      <em class="calibre8">designed</em> rather than arising naturally. All living beings
      have something that might be called a soul, a consciousness, but
      only the human soul retains qualities of the owner's personality,
      and only the human soul persists beyond death. This strongly
      suggests the hand of a human, and I believe the Atlanteans have had
      something to do with it. Unsatisfied with the idea of death, I
      surmise that they designed a piece of magic that would attach
      itself to the consciousness and preserve a human mind as well as
      possible, so they could be recovered after death. An unformed soul
      is shaped from the ambient magic on birth and starts growing during
      the first years of a human's life – and since it doesn't rely on a
      person's own magic, even Muggles obtained souls, either as a side
      effect or because the Atlanteans still considered those without
      magic worth saving. Unfortunately, either they never found the way
      to create a new body to supply to a soul, or more likely the art
      was lost with Atlantis's fall. In short," he nodded to Professor
      Dumbledore, "there <em class="calibre8">is</em> a purpose, and there is an
      afterlife. However," he turned to Harry, "it will have to be of our
      own making."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This... is a lot to take in," the old man spoke quietly even as
      Harry's heart raced and a bright sense of purpose ran through his
      mind. This rang so true to him that he was suddenly willing to
      forgo his doubts, to just believe that it was true. This
      <em class="calibre8">did</em> seem like the kind of thing an advanced civilization
      of magic users might do. And as for the Peverell brothers...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">That</em> is what you were doing," he breathed. "The
      <em class="calibre8">deathly hallows</em> – you were trying to end death. To
      reproduce the Atlantean immortality magics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Cadmus nodded. "Did you think us mere
      artificers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Dumbledore, who was staring at his wand, a
      startled expression on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think the finer details of your history got lost over the
      years," he said carefully. 'Actually, you're a children's tale
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre8">are</em> <em class="calibre8">we</em>?" Cadmus's voice, speaking the
      unintelligible ancient English language, took on a harder tone.
      "Let me guess. We serve as a <em class="calibre8">warning</em>, and the moral of the
      story is that you should just accept death?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes," Harry said apologetically. "The story says that the
      three of you met Death on a bridge after just having tricked him by
      not drowning or something silly like that. He offered you gifts to
      fool you. Antioch demanded a powerful wand, you wanted the power of
      resurrection, and Ignotus, the youngest and therefore the cleverest
      – sorry, that's how fairy tales tend to go – asked to go forth
      without getting chased by Death. Antioch got his throat slit in the
      first Inn he visited, you brought back your fiancée but committed
      suicide because you couldn't <em class="calibre8">really</em> be with her, and
      Ignotus lived a long life until he passed the invisibility cloak he
      was given to his son and met death as an old friend. The end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter looked increasingly angry as Helena translated this
      summary, but composed himself before speaking. "Well. That is quite
      far from the truth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is known," Professor Dumbledore volunteered, "among the
      seekers of the 'deathly hallows', it is known that yours is more
      than a mere story. That the three of you were powerful artificers,
      making great devices that could withstand the centuries. Some
      believe that to unite the three hallows is to master death – to
      bring, evade and undo – but the wiser ones consider the connection
      with death to be nothing more than a tale that sprang up as your
      history turned into myth. Or so I thought, but it seems that we who
      deemed ourselves wise were the fools in this matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They didn't see it," Harry breathed, connecting the dots. "Of
      course they didn't, the hallows were 'lost' for centuries, and
      those who had them were sensible enough not to talk about it much.
      The wand isn't just powerful, I saw that when you fought Riddle:
      its main strength is <em class="calibre8">defensive</em> power, isn't it? It makes
      your shields stronger, and it helps you dodge the Killing Curse,
      but <em class="calibre8">offensively</em> it's no better than other wands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded, and moments later Cadmus did the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So the wand protects you from murder and accident. There was
      never any doubt about the stone. And the cloak... Well, everyone
      <em class="calibre8">thought</em> that was just about invisibility and protection
      from normal detection charms, but that's because they didn't know
      about Dementors!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus raised a spectral eyebrow. "What about Dementors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People didn't realize that the cloak protects you from
      Dementors, because they didn't know that Dementors represent
      Death," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes, but..." Cadmus began, looking confused, then he
      stopped. He blinked a few times, as though suddenly realizing
      something. "You mean you don't <em class="calibre8">know</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Know what?" Harry asked, even as a strange and wonderful
      suspicion started to dawn in the pit of his stomach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The cloak stops death," Cadmus said simply. "No more, no less.
      There's really nothing mysterious about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had trouble finding his voice. "You mean that, while I
      wear this, I cannot die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter nodded. "The cloak keeps body and soul united. It
      helps against Dementors because Dementors sense by drawing out
      small, replaceable pieces of the soul, but that's just a side
      effect. The main purpose is that it stops you dying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A glance at Dumbledore told Harry that the old man was just as
      baffled by this particular tidbit of information as he was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why does it make you invisible?" He blurted out. "Why not
      make it so that you can constantly wear it without social
      repercussions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter grimaced. "Looking at a person's body when the soul
      is invisible to you is disconcerting to say the least. Ignotus has
      experimented with methods to circumvent this issue, but while he
      has succeeded in making the wearer look less disturbing, he could
      not make it seem <em class="calibre8">normal</em> no matter what he tried. This is
      why he combined the protections with an invisibility cloak of our
      mother's design. The invisibility would hide the true purpose of
      the cloak from outsiders, and it adds an additional layer of
      protection: in dangerous situations, where you <em class="calibre8">most</em> want
      to wear the cloak, it is better to not be seen than to stand out,
      after all. The true owner can will people to see through it,
      although there is the obvious flaw that when they are heavily
      wounded, they may not be capable of willing it any longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah." Harry had never tried this, but it made some sense that if
      he could will himself to see through the cloak, he might be able to
      allow others to do so as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," Peverell continued, "there is only so much point in
      constantly wearing the cloak. Ultimately, we all failed to reach
      our goal... Ignotus might have found a way to stall <em class="calibre8">death</em>,
      but not disease, age or injury."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry blinked. So if you constantly wear it –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– you will never die, but you <em class="calibre8">will</em> slowly fall apart,
      yes. Eventually your body ceases to function, and you will die the
      instant the cloak is removed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Damn.</em> Harry deflated. Of course, no one had ever
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> invented a device that protected you from death. If
      they had, they wouldn't have died and passed it on. But still, the
      cloak sounded like it had a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> more potential than what
      had initially seemed to be the case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you mass-produce cloaks like this? And if so, could you
      teach me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter looked very serious all of a sudden. "What would you
      do with them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop people from dying to curable diseases for a start! If we
      don't have the medicine or tools to cure people yet, we just put
      them under a cloak and stun them or put them in an enchanted sleep
      or something like that, until we've figured out how to treat their
      disease. Maybe we can do the same for people dying of old age –
      we're bound to figure out a solution to aging sooner or later, and
      it's likely to be easier to keep them alive than resurrecting them
      afterwards. Although, now that I think about it, if the stone can
      indeed bring souls back –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had not expected the burst of laughter that followed this
      question and interrupted his train of thought. The ghostly figure
      had a deep, warm laugh, and his eyes shone with genuine mirth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you do remind me of Ignotus – you are a heir of the
      Peverells indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So is it possible?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Peverell said simply. "Not unless you manage to invent a
      shortcut. Making a single cloak takes years of work, even if you
      are familiar with the spells Ignotus created, which I suspect you
      are not since you did not even know what a soul was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded glumly. "There's something else. I have a bunch of
      dead bodies around, who were preserved right after they died. I
      think we can fix the injuries in most cases, but with the two
      people I tried, we couldn't get the heart to restart, even though
      one of them was in perfect condition. I think that result might be
      entirely consistent with the soul being gone, though... can I use
      the stone, maybe together with the cloak, to put the souls back
      into the bodies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus looked him over, frowning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I fear you think entirely too lightly of this," he said
      seriously. "I do not blame you. Ignotus was not much older than you
      when we embarked on our quest, and I remember his enthusiasm and
      ambition all too well. We actually thought we would secure
      immortality in the first twenty years or so." He looked grim. "And
      yet, we spent all our lives working, and it wasn't enough. We made
      progress, but ultimately we failed, and had to leave the job to our
      descendants."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't wilt under the implied rebuke. "I am a descendant,
      and I intend to complete it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus smiled, his wispy eyes meeting Harry's. "I'm glad that
      another member of the family is willing to follow in our footsteps,
      but I hope you are truly prepared for the path ahead. It is long,
      and heavy. You might never finish your self-imposed duty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know." Harry stared back into those eyes, his resolve
      growing. "But I'm going to at least <em class="calibre8">try</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus smiled, and looked considering. "I am glad for it. Did
      you have more questions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to sort out his thoughts. A large part of him was
      starting to believe the specter's tale, but a smaller part was
      urging caution not to believe something too easily just because he
      <em class="calibre8">wanted</em> to believe it. Even if the story was true, though,
      it wasn't exactly helpful. It was <em class="calibre8">promising</em> if souls were
      indeed saved in the ether – whatever that was – for later recovery,
      but there was an incredibly long path still to go, and all the
      spells the three brothers had developed would have been lost due to
      the Interdict of Merlin. He'd basically have to start over,
      although the specter of Cadmus might give him some pointers – if he
      could persuade the man (ghost, soul?) to trust him with potentially
      dangerous information.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the silence, Professor Dumbledore stepped forward. "If I may
      ask... was there a prophecy? This has been a point of contention
      for centuries."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus turned to him. "There was, in fact. That is part of what
      started our quest." He smiled at the old man. "Should I regale the
      <em class="calibre8">true</em> tale of the Peverell brothers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would indulge the curiosity of an old man for the phantasms
      he used to chase in his youth," the man replied. He glanced at
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't mind." In fact, it would probably be useful to get the
      specter talking about his history; it might bring up questions he
      wouldn't even think about asking otherwise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus beamed brightly, leading Harry to suspect that the
      revelation that his life's work had been reduced to a children's
      tale with the contrary moral had been a severe strike to his ego,
      seemed to take a deep breath, and started his tale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There were three of us: Antioch, Ignotus and I. Our father a
      Muggle smith; our mother – Manura Peverell – a witch and the
      greatest artificer of our age. Indeed, her creations were renowned
      all over the known world. She took all of us as apprentices, and
      taught us most of our crafts. The beauty of the Runes, combined
      with plants and creatures, and the life she instilled in father's
      work... She taught us that almost nothing is impossible with magic,
      when you know what you're doing." He sighed deeply. "She was killed
      in a duel when I was fifteen, Antioch twenty and Ignotus
      thirteen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My brothers and I talked a lot, after that. Father gave us the
      usual spiel of how death comes to everyone in time, and we should
      learn to accept it. We disagreed. Unfortunately, our training was
      incomplete, especially Ignotus's, and father was talking with a
      local wizard to apprentice him out. Our resolve might have been
      broken by circumstance and the absolute dismissal of everyone
      around us, until we heard that prophecy. <em class="calibre8">'Three shall be their
      devices by which death shall be defeated.'</em> Those were her
      actual words. <em class="calibre8">Shall be defeated.</em> We concluded that, if we
      embarked on our quest, we were destined to succeed, which settled
      the matter. Together we swore that we wouldn't bow to death, nor
      allow ourselves to be cowed by the limited views of those who would
      call us dark, fools or both.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Antioch, greatly affected by the way mother had died, focused
      on <em class="calibre8">premature</em> death. He searched the world for defensive
      and healing magics and developed several defenses of his own.
      Ignotus and I were more ambitious, and desired to stop death
      altogether. Ignotus started to study what <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> happens
      at the moment of death; my own research was focused on the
      soul.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As Antioch had been studying the secrets of wand lore before we
      set out on our quest, his research culminated in the development of
      a wand which provided the greatest protections magic could afford.
      It was far from complete, however. The wand is powerful – it can
      sustain the strain of customized spells which are impossible to
      cast with normal wands, and can channel near-limitless magical
      power if required – but it cannot modify or overpower existing
      spells except those Antioch built it for, self-defense spells. Its
      protections could <em class="calibre8">not</em> be extended to others easily, nor be
      turned towards healing without first designing new charms. It was a
      first attempt; we had only been at this task for twelve years.
      Unfortunately, it was already sufficient to cause jealousy, and an
      old friend poisoned him and stole the wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so Death took the first brother for his own," Dumbledore
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I suppose the fairy tale got that part right," Cadmus
      spoke sadly. "Antioch's death came as an enormous shock to us, and
      threw off our plans and our faith. We had intended to work on our
      goal together, we hadn't expected to die before fulfilling it! And
      then, as Antioch was <em class="calibre8">supposed</em> to be the one dealing with
      disease and Ignotus, emerged in his studies, had barely even
      started what would become his life's work, there was nothing I
      could do when my beloved Liaire contracted Glowpox and succumbed to
      it three days later. She was then but nineteen, and I twenty-seven,
      and the only knowledge my research had provided thus far was that
      there wasn't an afterlife." His voice took on a bitter tone. "It
      took me seven years before I finally managed to give shape and
      speech to souls, and then another six years to find individual
      souls through a connection they made in life. And then, at last, I
      could be with her again. Or so I thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed wearily. "I should have realized it earlier, through
      my experiments with the random souls I could capture. She was no
      longer alive; she had lost the capacity for change. She was who she
      had always been, which meant that she was forever stuck as an
      immature teenager, even though I <em class="calibre8">had</em> changed. And whenever
      I would ask her to make a non-obvious choice, she simply could not
      do it, like a donkey torn between food and water. She could hear
      new information, but would never change her opinions. And in
      realizing that, it was like losing her all over again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I let her go, and plunged myself back into my research with a
      zeal. I did a great many experiments, and succeeded in making a
      permanent artifact to summon souls: the stone you see before you.
      Having done that much, and understanding the nature of the soul and
      the ether better than anyone alive, I started looking into ways to
      return thinking capacity to souls – perhaps in the form of magic,
      but ideally by creating new bodies for them. Often I worked
      together with Ignotus whose experiments to stop death coincided
      with my own in several ways, but he had a wife, he had children, he
      could not always work. I could, and did. Unfortunately, I was so
      consumed with my research that I stopped taking good care of
      myself. Ignotus, using the stone, told me afterwards that his wife
      found my body slumped over a large sheaf of calculations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for Ignotus... Where my research was focused on retrieving
      souls from the dead, Ignotus preferred to stop them from passing on
      in the first place. We reused a lot of each other's discoveries –
      for example, we both made artifacts to bind a soul in place – and
      he made his cloak that kept the soul firmly anchored in the body
      shortly after I completed the stone. Unfortunately, we both knew it
      wouldn't be enough, as it wouldn't stop aging. He had pinned his
      hopes on the creation of a Philosopher's Stone, as the cloak could
      protect him from the worst of the backlash, but the spells on the
      cloak interfered with the alchemical magic, and that hope was lost.
      Without this protection, he didn't dare take the risk; he had too
      much to live for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He spent the rest of his life with his wife and three children,
      both improving the cloak and working on medical research. He
      discovered a great many things about the functioning of the body
      and, with the help of his family, developed treatments for various
      magical and non-magical diseases, including a potion that would
      have saved my Liaire if it had been available before. However, he
      never found a way to halt or reverse aging without a greater
      sacrifice, nor to make a new human body without a soul to inhabit
      it. And then, as he was nearing the end of his natural life, he
      lost his wife, his eldest child and all <em class="calibre8">her</em> children in
      some stupid, senseless war. He told me of that, the last time we
      spoke. He had been disillusioned with the project for years, but
      this... he said that we'd attacked the problem from the wrong
      direction. That we should fix the world before trying to deliver
      immortality to the wrong people. I disagreed with him, of course,
      but then, that would have been my response in life; I do not know
      whether he would have been able to persuade me if I had been able
      to change my mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death,"</em>
      Dumbledore whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peverell turned to him sharply. "Where did you hear that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James Potter," Dumbledore replied. "Harry's father, an earlier
      descendant from your brother. It was their family motto, in a
      sense, an ancient text from the Christian bible. James said that it
      simply meant to move beyond the fear of death, or so his father had
      told him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus grimaced. "That is a bizarre interpretation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Headmaster shrugged. "In hindsight, I am forced to
      agree."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I also disagree with Ignotus's analysis, though," Harry spoke
      up. "If death is irreversible, you want to get rid of it before
      spending too much time on things that <em class="calibre8">can</em> be fixed. If it
      isn't, then knowing that resurrection is possible is likely to be
      <em class="calibre8">helpful</em> for those other problems. Immortality is the
      ultimate bribe. Would a small dictator still accept money to screw
      over the people in favor of large corporations if he knew that
      doing too much evil would lose him the chance of living
      forever?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That assumes that sensible and well-intended people are always
      going to be in control over who gets resurrected," the specter
      pointed out. "But yes, there are arguments either way." He
      shrugged, then shot Harry a penetrating look. "So tell me... if
      more than a thousand years have passed, what does the world look
      like today? Have its ills been fixed yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well... no," Harry confessed. "Things have gotten
      <em class="calibre8">better</em>, I think, but they're not exactly good yet.
      Definitely not everywhere, and you probably wouldn't like what has
      become of the magical world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Cadmus asked, raising his eyebrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A lot of magic has been forgotten," Harry said blandly. "A
      <em class="calibre8">lot</em>. We don't know how to make artifacts which last for
      centuries anymore. Witches and wizards have been growing steadily
      weaker as powerful spells were lost, most likely due to the
      Interdict of Merlin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus winced at that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But there have also been some good changes," Harry continued.
      "Particularly in the Muggle world. The entire magical world has
      lived in secret for almost five hundred years, and Muggles have
      invented science – I mean, they systematically started testing
      their beliefs and figuring out the laws of the universe, except
      that they didn't notice magic yet, probably because we were hiding
      it. So now, it <em class="calibre8">isn't</em> good everywhere, there's a lot of
      places in the world which are still way behind, but at least in the
      richer countries there's far less poverty and disease, and also not
      much fighting. Muggles also use all kinds of inventions, which have
      brought their quality of life much closer to the standard witches
      and wizards are used to. For example, you don't need magic to talk
      to someone on the other side of the planet anymore. Kings and
      emperors have lost most of their power; the people choose their own
      rulers now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ghostly image inclined its head. "So the Muggle world has
      been gaining, and the magical world only losing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, not <em class="calibre8">only</em>," Harry said, remembering himself.
      "That's really just the vibe I've been getting from the last five
      hundred years. I think one of the major events after your death was
      Hogwarts: four powerful witches and wizards built a school where
      all magical children in Britain and Ireland were invited to learn
      magic. I think that probably made a vast difference with your time.
      There are magical schools in other countries too, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All children learning magic in a single place rather than
      through apprenticeships?" Peverell asked, surprised. "Yes, I
      imagine it <em class="calibre8">would</em> make a large difference."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore cleared his throat. "Don't forget about recent
      events."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right. Compared to your time it probably doesn't make that
      much of a difference, but the Statute of Secrecy was overthrown
      last month. Witches and wizards are back under the authority of the
      Muggle government, and we've made all kinds of cooperation
      agreements. Oh, and a couple of friends and I destroyed all
      Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus's eyes widened at the last point. "So <em class="calibre8">that</em> stain
      is finally removed from the world. And you participated? How did
      you do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A variation of the normal Patronus Charm which I developed. The
      key is simply to cast the usual spell with defiance of death as
      your happy thought. <em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus stared at the glowing figure, and then back at Harry, his
      eyes filled with considerable interest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is weighty news indeed!" The specter spoke when Harry
      lowered his wand again. "I am impressed; it would never have
      occurred to me to do that. Have you tried the stone on any victims
      of the Dementors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Not yet, I wanted to check with you first
      to know what I should think about the stone in the first
      place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm. Well, I would be interested whether it works. I know that
      the soul of those Kissed by a Dementor does not seem to go into the
      ether, regardless of whether the body survives. However, one
      possible reading of the ancient texts suggests that a consumed soul
      stays with its Dementor. If the soul persists rather than being
      destroyed, you may have liberated them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That sounded good, unless... "They wouldn't have been aware
      during all that time, would they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's enough to make you hope that the souls have been
      destroyed, is it not?" Cadmus spoke quietly. "I do not know. I have
      done many experiments during my life, but those with Dementors were
      limited as there weren't that many around, and I wasn't foolish
      enough to create some, or evil enough to sacrifice people to it. I
      should like to know what you find, if only to satisfy my
      curiosity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can still be curious?" Professor Dumbledore queried.
      "Forgive me if the question offends, but I have never known a ghost
      to wonder about facts of the present."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not a ghost," the ghostly figure smiled. "I am a summoned
      soul. <em class="calibre8">In</em> <em class="calibre8">particular</em>, I am the soul of the person
      who made this stone, and in life I have placed a significant part
      of my own magic inside it. This allows me a better memory and
      awareness of the world than most while I am tied to it, although it
      will still not allow me to change my mind on any subject."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm happy to try it," Harry said, suddenly very curious for
      this experiment as well. "I'll need to turn you off to test this
      though, won't I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, go ahead. But <em class="calibre8">do</em> call me back soon, there is more
      we need to discuss. And keep in mind that you can only summon
      specific people, whose life you have touched in some way. I am an
      exception due to my connection with the stone, but for other
      people, the stone cannot find a soul merely by the name of the body
      they used to inhabit in life. It needs to draw the connection from
      your mind, so you must have known them personally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Is it entirely safe? Can a malicious soul do
      anything to me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Other than attempting to manipulate you, no. They have no power
      but speech, and you can dismiss them at any time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you." Harry turned the stone over in his hand, and the
      shade of Cadmus Peverell disappeared.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please tell me you're not about to do what I think you are
      about to do," the old wizard whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Harry asked. "I know it's not a good test due to the
      horcrux thing and all, but Peverell said it's safe, you said the
      stone hadn't been tampered with, and this is a question we really
      want an answer to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before the other could argue further, he turned the stone three
      times in his hand. "Tom Marvolo Riddle."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">-o-o-o-o-o-</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> "Néade sé bregus ongrataþ on þín
      dæg." is <em class="calibre8">supposed</em> to be the translation of "May the gods
      smile on your day." If some reader actually speaks old English well
      enough to provide proper translations, I'd be open to replacing the
      current sentences. ;)</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
