<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 115: The Deathly Hallows, Pt 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s35" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 115: The Deathly Hallows, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Within moments, mists started gathering like before. Harry heard
      a sharp intake of breath from the former Headmaster as they swirled
      into the figure of a handsome man with dark hair and darker eyes.
      The man didn't look anything like Professor Quirrell had, but
      nevertheless, there was something familiar about him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter looked around, at himself and the room, glancing
      dismissively at Dumbledore before settling his eyes on Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed. "Hello Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man stared silently for a long time before speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see the dynamic of our respective situations has been altered
      somewhat. How much time has passed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three weeks," Harry answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm. And have you managed to destroy civilization yet?" There
      was no anger in the question, merely resignation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," he replied. "Actually, we're doing quite well. The Muggle
      and magical governments have merged, the violence has stopped,
      people in the space program are looking at phoenixes with
      <em class="calibre8">considerable</em> interest, and several collaborative research
      projects have already been proposed – but only in approved fields,
      like medical and nuclear science, and with all possible
      precautions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter rolled his eyes. "<em class="calibre8">Precautions.</em> What do you
      know of <em class="calibre8">caution</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not enough," Harry admitted. "But there are other people who
      do, and they refined my initial ideas quite a bit. I never planned
      to work alone, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like Dumbledore?" He hissed . "You follow him now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would be closer to say that he follows me," Harry answered
      with a shrug and a glance at Professor Dumbledore to see how he
      took this answer. The former Headmaster did not respond; he stood
      silently in the corner, staring at the specter with a look of what
      could only be hatred on his face, an expression that seemed almost
      alien on him. "Or simply that I take his advice into account along
      with many other people's."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You may wish to choose your advisors more carefully." Tom
      Riddle turned his head to the former Headmaster and shot him a look
      of pure venom. "Tell me, Albus. It was you, wasn't it, who told
      lesser wizards of the Death-ritual? I can even understand the boy's
      idiocy, but for all your faults I would never have believed it of
      <em class="calibre8">you</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are hardly one to reproach me, Tom," Dumbledore spoke, his
      voice hard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I do not blame you – you were saving your own life, after
      all. I might have done the same, in your place. But then,
      <em class="calibre8">I</em> never pretended to be <em class="calibre8">noble</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought he saw a slight crack in Dumbledore's demeanor as
      Riddle smirked. Riddle's eyes turned back to Harry. "But
      congratulations. You won, for however brief your victory may
      last."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you are trying to steer me to your point of view," Harry
      said coolly, "it won't work. I will never agree that being cautious
      requires the kinds of sacrifices you tend to make."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is only because you have not the slightest sense of what
      it means to be cautious. Had you possessed even a shred of
      self-preservation, you would have not have dared to summon the soul
      of a known enemy so quickly, particularly one who has partaken in
      soul magics far beyond your understanding."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry swallowed. "The stone only summons a ghost-like specter, I
      knew it wouldn't give you any power but speech.""You
      <em class="calibre8">knew</em>?" The specter raised an eyebrow. "Did you determine
      that beyond all reasonable doubt? Did you take preparations for the
      eventuality that you were wrong?" He stared in Harry's eyes,
      unblinkingly. Harry tried to school his expression, not looking
      away even as he felt a hot ball of embarrassment start in his
      stomach.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Riddle smirked. "You did not, nor did you send another, more
      replaceable person in your stead. You might have summoned a spirit,
      given me power and allowed me to possess you – or the old man for
      that matter. If I had retained my magic, and the stone works as I
      surmise, this is exactly what would have happened." He grimaced.
      "You are fortunate, however. It seems that while the Dementor did
      not manage to destroy my <em class="calibre8">soul</em>, it has taken my magic and
      thus rendered me incapable of independent action."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cadmus Peverell said it was safe," Harry defended himself,
      ignoring the voice of self criticism that was whispering in his ear
      that he <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em> asked what the likely consequence would be
      if the soul in question had active horcruxes, an omission that
      seemed rather dangerous in hindsight. Would Peverell even know
      that? The situation between him and Riddle seemed reasonably
      unique, especially since it involved destroying a Dementor. In
      fact... Harry had been foolish enough to bring a horcrux in
      Riddle's presence. Tom Riddle hadn't <em class="calibre8">said</em> it, but that
      might be because he didn't know whether Dumbledore knew what he had
      done to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Note to self: think before acting. Thank you for that
      lesson, Professor Quirrell.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle inclined his head. "If you managed to persuade the
      stone's creator to speak with you, I suppose it is possible that
      your questioning was adequate. Did Cadmus Peverell have other
      things to say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry said curtly. "He did." He wasn't quite sure whether
      he should give a <em class="calibre8">known enemy</em> more information than that.
      "But why don't you know that already? You had the stone before me.
      Didn't you want to take the risk?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some risks must be taken in the pursuit of greater power," the
      specter shrugged. "However, he was not very forthcoming towards me
      or those I asked to try. I could not begin to unravel the
      enchantments and runes on the stone without harming them, so it is
      entirely possible that information about the person summoning
      Peverell is passed onto him. That, or he is just very careful.
      Others did speak to me, but I could only summon those I had
      personally known, which rather limited its usability."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see." <em class="calibre8">Or it is because I'm part of the family and have
      the cloak to prove it. Or in fact... maybe Cadmus trusted me
      because I was asking for completely different things than what you
      would have tried. That, or you're lying and trying to lure me into
      a false sense of security by pretending that I know things that you
      don't.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't really matter. He studied his old mentor, taking in
      the somehow-not-quite-unfamiliar face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle broke the silence first. "You summoned me here. Why?
      After as little as three weeks, I assume that you are not yet ready
      to resurrect me. You wish to boast of your victory, perhaps? To
      tell me that you were right and I was wrong?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up, meeting his eyes. "Mostly, to see whether you
      were there. I never thought of you as my enemy, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle gave him a long look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose such words have less meaning between the likes of us.
      What do you want, Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Answers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naturally." The handsome face twisted into a small smirk. "And
      why should I give them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ultimately, I believe that we want the same thing." The man
      inclined his head to show he was listening. "Immortality, safety,
      and for people to stop acting so bloody stupid all the time. I
      fully intend to resurrect everyone who's died before, as you
      predicted when you wrote that letter, and I'm also planning to
      bring you back. I will need some reassurances that you aren't going
      to kill a bunch of people again, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wrote that letter before I witnessed your final stupidity,"
      Riddle pointed out, voice bitter. "You held the world in your
      hands, and you elected to pass it over to fools."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, the final treaty has turned out perfectly fine,"
      Harry said icily. "And as for giving the world away, I like to
      think that I still have <em class="calibre8">some</em> control. Not formally,
      perhaps, but the part of your plan where I draw a lot of positive
      attention actually worked out pretty well, even if it's more from
      the side of the Muggles. The magical side don't <em class="calibre8">hate</em> me
      anymore, though, and since I'm the public face of our world to
      Muggles, I could still potentially end up ruling the world. Not
      that I'm planning to actually <em class="calibre8">do</em> that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You had better be prepared for it," Riddle spoke calmly, "and
      soon. You have brought the world into a very volatile position.
      <em class="calibre8">Now</em> things look well, <em class="calibre8">now</em> people want peace, but
      give it a year or two and you will see how it all falls apart when
      the politicians are allowed to run with the situation." There was
      not a hint of doubt in the specter's words. "Will you be there,
      when the next threat to the planet comes? For unless you hurry up
      with your <em class="calibre8">resurrections</em>, I will not be there to protect it
      any longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed. "What <em class="calibre8">have</em> you been doing so far to
      save the earth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you like a <em class="calibre8">list</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, actually, that would be rather useful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what will you do with it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Learn from what you did and continue the protection," Harry
      said patiently. "I <em class="calibre8">like</em> the world. I would really prefer
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> to see it destroyed. And that's in your interest too,
      because eventually you'll want to be brought back to it. Was that
      not why you gave me the stone? Because <em class="calibre8">some</em> hope for a
      real existence is better than none?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter made a vaguely agreeing movement with his head. "And
      what kinds of measures would you be willing to consider
      taking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not such extreme ones as you seem to favor," he said
      eventually. "I don't like killing people or other questionable
      techniques like memory-charms. Also, I like Muggle science, and I'm
      not willing to hold it back, although the proper study of magic
      will probably have to wait for a generation until there are enough
      sensible scientists in both worlds to do <em class="calibre8">careful</em>
      research."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yet with such an attitude," the man spoke softly, "you will see
      everything destroyed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Harry shrugged. Riddle had died believing Harry to be
      a hopeless case, he realized. And as Cadmus had said, he would be
      unable to change his mind, no matter what Harry said. Nevertheless,
      he'd had the stone for months before passing it on to Harry. He
      must have prepared, considered what he would do in all conceivable
      situations. And that meant that it had to be possible to bargain
      with him. "But you really can't stop me, as these are some of my
      core values. You're better off hoping that it works out, and giving
      me more information to work from will only improve your chances.
      So, are you willing to help, or not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter gave him a considering look, and Harry wondered
      whether he had asked a "non-obvious question" that would leave the
      disembodied soul incapable of choice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will," the man said, eventually. "Indeed, I shall offer you
      more than what you ask for. If you wish it, I will serve you with
      advice on your endeavors. I may well be able to catch some of your
      idiocies before they go too far." He grimaced. "I cannot say it
      will be pleasant, as I care <em class="calibre8">very</em> little for this state,
      having neither body nor magic and what is infinitely worse, an
      impaired mind, but I suspect my help may be invaluable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the corner, Dumbledore made a choked sound, which caused a
      brief expression of amusement on Riddle's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. He was undoubtedly getting manipulated, but he
      and Riddle <em class="calibre8">were</em> on the same side, unless he was completely
      mistaken about what the man wanted. The specter would have a major
      cognitive deficit in not being able to ever update his beliefs, but
      if Harry took that into account, it could be overcome. Harry was
      also still not a hundred percent convinced that the specter was
      actually a real soul rather than the product of his imagination,
      but in the latter case, it would come out soon enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you." He glanced at Dumbledore again, who looked white in
      the face but didn't seem to want to reprimand Harry in front of
      Riddle. There were many more questions to ask, but they could wait;
      his old mentor was likely to be more honest when Dumbledore wasn't
      listening in (although it might be a good idea to ask the old
      wizard for protections he really should have before being alone
      with the "ghost" of Voldemort).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In order to test that you're real, could you tell me –" he
      thought for a moment, "<em class="calibre8">did</em> you teach Bellatrix any of
      Slytherin's lore? And if so, could you persuade her to teach
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just to test whether I'm real?" His mouth curled into an amused
      smile. "I taught her <em class="calibre8">some</em> things, but nothing that your
      good friend and loyal follower Albus wouldn't also know. The ritual
      to summon Fiendfyre for example, although I would strongly urge you
      not to attempt this until you have practiced your force of will in
      trials less likely to kill you if you fail. Should you wish to
      learn from her regardless, she will obey you as she would me if you
      tell her that the basilisk lies forgotten by Salazar's feet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you." This could be tested easily, and was valuable for
      <em class="calibre8">far</em> more reasons. Aside from power over Bellatrix Black
      (something which he'd better not abuse <em class="calibre8">too</em> badly), Riddle
      had just – <em class="calibre8">probably</em> on purpose – given Dumbledore a reason
      not to withhold magical knowledge from Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He quickly rifled through his mind, but there were no other
      urgent questions; most could be postponed until later, when
      Dumbledore wasn't around, and when he'd had the time to sort
      through a list of priorities. Which left the question he'd summoned
      Riddle for in the first place. <em class="calibre8">Mostly</em> it had been answered
      by Riddle actually being summonable, but there were some details
      open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have many questions left," he said. "But for now... I wanted
      to ask you about your death. Do you remember it? And maybe what
      came after?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle stiffened, and his expression darkened. "I do." The tone
      could have cut steel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could you... tell me about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was <em class="calibre8">unpleasant</em>," Tom Riddle said icily. "I believe
      you have some moderately similar experience, although I assure you
      that the sensation of being sucked into the darkness, having your
      magic ripped apart and your world melting down into pure fear,
      anger and regret, and then persisting in that state with the
      ability to sense but not think for seconds or minutes or hours
      until your consciousness is finally snuffed out is likely to be
      several factors beyond what you sensed for merely being in the
      <em class="calibre8">presence</em> of a Dementor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed. "I see. We destroyed the Dementor roughly a
      minute afterwards. You didn't sense that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That might have been the ending of consciousness," Riddle
      replied. "As I recall, quite a few people have been taken by
      Dementors not too long before me; I would suggest that you ask some
      of them whether their torments lasted longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath, a choking feeling of horror starting
      to rise. "Okay. I guess I will. Thank you, and, um, I'll see you
      later." He turned the stone over in his hand, and Riddle
      disappeared.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" The old wizard said urgently when they were alone
      again. "What are you <em class="calibre8">doing</em>? How can you make such
      promises?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the stone, not really caring much about the old
      man's qualms at the moment. "Do you know any other
      Dementor-victims?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard blinked. "Yes, I do, and I understand why it's
      important, but <em class="calibre8">Harry.</em> You just promised Lord Voldemort to
      seek his advice on all your future endeavors!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "He may be right, you know. I'm in over my head,
      and I might not see it coming if things are about to go wrong. Even
      just killing him might have put the world in danger. His input is
      bound to be valuable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is manipulating you! You are <em class="calibre8">not</em> in over your
      head." He grabbed Harry's shoulders, gently but firmly. "The world
      was never yours to control, and thus it is no problem that you lack
      the power to do so. Do not make that mistake, Harry. You are not
      like him, and the more you allow him to guide you, the more you
      will start believing that you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up into the deeply worried eyes, and felt a twinge
      of guilt. Perhaps he <em class="calibre8">had</em> allowed himself to get carried
      away by the former Defense Professor. But right now, his feelings
      were in turmoil for an entirely different reason, and he wasn't
      about to get distracted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand what you're saying, Professor," he said slowly.
      "If the only thing he <em class="calibre8">can</em> do is manipulate me, then that's
      exactly what he's going to do, so I should be wary, I get that. I
      promise you that I won't just call him again, I'll at least check
      with you or someone else first. Is that okay?" The old man didn't
      look convinced, so he added: "He can be <em class="calibre8">useful</em>, extremely
      so. For example, if what Riddle said was true, then I can get
      Bellatrix to listen to me now. Weren't you worried about her
      torturing your friend Moody?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded slowly. "I suppose that you are right that
      <em class="calibre8">some</em> good may come of it, although I am not convinced that
      it outweighs the risks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. So, we'll talk about this, but right now I have
      something bigger on my mind. Do you, or do you not, personally know
      anyone else who has been subjected to the Dementor's Kiss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some," Dumbledore said cautiously. "But Harry, are you sure you
      wish to know this? If what you surmise is the truth, only grief can
      come from its confirmation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is true is already so; owning up to it cannot make it
      worse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Helena humphed at that. Harry jumped. He'd almost forgotten she
      was still there. "Yet what is in the past is in the past. Knowing
      about it cannot make it better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered arguing with the ghost, but thought better of
      it. "We still need to test it. Riddle was a very bad sample, seeing
      as the Horcruxes might have kept his soul from being
      destroyed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Headmaster sighed and took the stone from his hands.
      He stared at it for some moments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you believe now, then? That the stone functions as is
      claimed, and the appearance of souls is not some trick conjured
      from your mind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot yet be sure either way. But..." He shrugged
      helplessly. "I <em class="calibre8">feel</em> like it's genuine. I know that I'm
      probably affected by my own biases, not least the standard bias of
      taking things at face value, but I'm still inclined to believe it.
      And that might not even be so bad, as long as I keep reminding
      myself that there is a real chance that it isn't all true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And as you grow towards belief in what we see before us, I find
      myself having trouble to accept it," the man said gently. "Although
      I confess I have no justification, beside an old man's inability to
      change his mind and the <em class="calibre8">wish</em> that what he sees is a
      deception."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took a deep breath. "But very well. Let us see this
      investigation to the end." He turned the stone three times in his
      hand. "Arya McFusty."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre8">thing</em> that appeared before them didn't have a human
      shape. It didn't look like much of anything, just a large blob of
      mist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" Harry tried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam McFusty?" Professor Dumbledore tried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore turned the stone over in his hand, his face pale. "I
      suppose that answers some questions."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's next attempt was one of Voldemort's former
      followers who had been imprisoned during the last war, and then
      given to the Dementors when he tried to attack his guards. The
      misty shape looked more like a human now, but barely. It made some
      incoherent sounds which might have been English, but they couldn't
      speak to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arya McFusty had died during Grindelwald's war, roughly fifty
      years ago. There was nothing left of her consciousness. There was
      <em class="calibre8">something</em>, but not much, left of Alfred Carrow's
      consciousness after twelve years. Apparently, the Dementors took
      their time to consume a soul completely. Dumbledore didn't
      personally know anyone who'd been Kissed closer to the Dementor's
      destruction, and they couldn't summon any of the victims of Dark
      Monday simply by name, but Harry couldn't shake the fear that the
      souls might have been aware during all that time, while the
      Dementor steadily consumed them until nothing remained. There would
      have to be more tests, but somehow Harry <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> feel that
      knowing the truth would necessarily be a good thing anymore. He was
      feeling rather sick at the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If Dementors are death, how can they be so much worse than
      the real thing? How can they destroy a soul when death only stores
      it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer came easily. <em class="calibre8">They represent what death</em> used
      <em class="calibre8">to be, before the Atlanteans designed the soul as a
      backup-mechanism. Perhaps they even created Dementors as a new form
      of death which would be able to kill immortals who crossed some
      line. But if</em> that <em class="calibre8">is the case, they wouldn't have needed
      to make their victims suffer for a long time on top of that, would
      they? It doesn't fit the "death" picture to do so.. Or were they
      really</em> that <em class="calibre8">cruel?<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A House Elf placed a glass of chocolate milk and a plate of
      cookies in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rest some, Harry," the Chief Warlock spoke gently. "I know this
      is a lot to take in, but it doesn't do to rush to conclusions, or
      to torture yourself over things which cannot be changed." Despite
      the words, the tone of the voice echoed the old man's grief and
      horror as much as Harry felt them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a sip, but shook his head. "I want to finish talking
      with Cadmus. Are you up to it, Helena?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ghost, who was also looking subdued, nodded. "I will
      help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time it was Dumbledore who summoned the specter of Cadmus
      Peverell. Harry didn't mind. A small part of him observed from the
      back of his mind that if Cadmus suddenly behaved very differently,
      it was a data point for the stone being a ruse, but he didn't
      believe in that anymore. When presented with information that he
      really <em class="calibre8">wanted</em> to believe, Harry had still found it in his
      heart to be skeptic, but with the opposite, his doubts had all but
      faded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It appears," he told the specter with a lump in his throat,
      "that Demented souls indeed persist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't go on after that, but Professor Dumbledore stepped
      in with his own account of what had transpired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, Cadmus nodded, looking sorrowed. "That is grave news
      indeed. But if they suffered, at least they do not do so any
      longer, little comfort though that is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hardly," Harry said, staring ahead. "The only good thing I can
      see about this nightmare is that souls aren't destroyed or
      obviously affected <em class="calibre8">immediately</em>. There was a huge
      Dementor-raid just a few weeks back with some ten thousand people
      getting Kissed, but we destroyed the Dementors very quickly
      afterwards. <em class="calibre8">Those</em> people, at least, did not suffer for
      long, and should be just as resurrectable as everyone else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm," Cadmus nodded, looking thoughtful. "Did you happen to
      keep the bodies around?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up at the tone. That did not sound like it was a
      random question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most were killed, but some got away. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because the Dementor's Kiss takes the soul and the magic, but
      not the body's life force," Peverell explained. "That much is
      certain, for otherwise the bodies could not continue to function,
      but would rather start decomposing. If the souls are now liberated
      – and can be retrieved by the stone – I do believe it should be
      possible to reunite body and soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore blanched, his eyes widening. "By my hands..." He
      whispered. "For my folly. Oh Merlin, what have I done?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a stab of pain, too, on top of the horror he'd
      already been nurturing, and none of the hope that the words should
      have brought. He hadn't spent much time thinking about Dumbledore's
      – and various other people's – act of killing the Dementor-victims
      in a misguided attempt to save the Statute of Secrecy or <em class="calibre8">help
      them</em> in some way; between watching thousands of people get
      killed in the span of one six-times repeated hour, Hogwarts getting
      destroyed, seeing his friends, Professor McGonagall and his mother
      die in front of his eyes, taking command in a battle and being
      responsible for ending a war, he'd pushed everything that wasn't of
      immediate importance to the back of his mind. The murder of some
      ten thousand comatose people who <em class="calibre8">might</em> have been
      salvageable had been overshadowed by all the other violence, loss
      and grief. However, it came back with a vengeance now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten thousand people who could have been saved had died because
      of ignorance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get yourself to the Ministry," Harry snarled at the old man who
      was now shaking all over his body. "And send word that any further
      Dementor-victims should <em class="calibre8">not</em> be euthanized, nor lethally
      experimented on for that matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The grieving wizard didn't reply, but simply disappeared in a
      burst of flame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?" He demanded from Cadmus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The vision regarded him for a long time. "I suspect there is
      some context I am not aware of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if only one in a hundred are still alive, it's better to
      save those than to pretend we never could have done it to stop
      people from feeling guilty or being accused of murder," Harry said
      coolly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah." The specter raised his eyebrows. "And what of the
      consequences? Have you considered the possibility of suicide?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. He hadn't. But then, the Aurors who'd gone out to
      kill the Dementor-victims <em class="calibre8">had</em> been well-intentioned, just
      like Dumbledore had been. The Muggle doctors who had declared their
      patients beyond help had been well-intentioned. This evil had not
      been done out of malice, and any line of action would come at a
      price.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can deal with that. I'll talk with sensible people – people
      who don't have an emotional investment like Professor Dumbledore
      has – to figure out the best way to break the news."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do seem sincere." Cadmus continued staring at him. Finally,
      he added: "I will trust you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you. So, you'll tell me how it works?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore reappeared with a flash of fire. "I have passed the
      message."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome back," Cadmus said politely. He held out a hand,
      pointing at the old man's wand. "You do realize you have dear
      Antioch's old wand, don't you? Does it recognize you as its
      owner?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It does," Professor Dumbledore replied, slightly confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you might have mentioned it before. Anyway, young
      Peverell, the method in question should be simple in theory,
      although I must warn you that this is merely a thought experiment
      which I have debated with Ignotus when we were younger. I have
      never had the opportunity to apply it in practice and there may
      well be complications. The idea is to use the stone to summon the
      soul, place it on the body, and dress the body in the cloak.
      Dismiss the soul, which cannot leave because of the cloak, and use
      a charm to bind it into the body."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Straightforward.</em> "Professor, do you happen to know any
      good charms to bind the soul back into the body?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Headmaster frowned. "Not directly, but I may be able
      to construct one. Soul magic is generally considered a dark art,
      but I may know some people who would have books I could use as
      reference material."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter nodded. "For obvious reasons I never developed such
      a spell myself, but I imagine it should be possible. Especially
      since you have Antioch's wand: it will allow its owner to cast
      customized spells which are infeasible with normal wands. That
      should give you enough leeway to use even a naive design, or build
      additional protections into your spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry breathed deeply. In between all the worries today had
      brought, there was one shining point of light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And thus death is defeated when the hallows are united,"
      Professor Dumbledore spoke quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Cadmus nodded. "Or at least, Dementation is. However, I
      must warn that we never got far enough to bother looking into ways
      to restore someone's <em class="calibre8">magic</em>. Even if you manage recovering
      these people, they will be Muggles afterwards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They were Muggles anyway," Harry shrugged. "But if it's so easy
      for Dementor-victims, why would it be impossible to bring back
      people with perfectly preserved corpses? Can't we use the same
      technique?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never said it couldn't be done," Cadmus pointed out. "Merely
      that it wouldn't be easy. Which it won't be. I would not have
      embarked on this mission if I believed the goal to be fully
      impossible, however. Tell me, how were those corpses
      preserved?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An anti-decomposition charm. Most of the bodies were under the
      charm <em class="calibre8">before</em> they died, but they did mostly die rather
      violently. It was non-magical damage, though, and I think in most
      cases the brains are intact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm. Does the spell in question preserve life force?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Dumbledore answered sadly. "I believe it preserves the
      <em class="calibre8">potential</em> force and growth status, but it doesn't stop the
      deactivation upon death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then unless you happen to have a philosopher's stone lying
      around..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry coughed. "Let's assume, for the sake of conversation, that
      we do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah? That changes quite a lot. And you have access to a phoenix,
      I see, not to mention Antioch's wand." He looked thoughtful, then
      sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot <em class="calibre8">design</em> the setup you would need, even though
      I have the feeling that something could be done. You have the stone
      and the cloak to place the soul back into the body, and I suspect
      that even a single drop of Elixir could reactivate the life when
      you have a phoenix. The problem is in the combination. The soul
      will not lightly attach itself to a non-living body, nor does the
      Elixir have anything to latch onto when the soul is not attached.
      You will certainly need some dedicated spells... but if you make a
      mistake in the spell design, you risk damaging either the body or
      the soul beyond repair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stopped, massaging his head and looking stressed. "I'm sorry.
      If I were still alive, I would have come up with a dozen potential
      solutions, but neither I nor my brothers ever had access to Elixir
      of Life, so we never considered questions like this in great depth.
      Ignotus finally found a way to give some of your own life force to
      another, but that's a lossy process which only works if both
      parties are alive, and willing. Not to mention, it was decades
      after my death, and very close to his own; we certainly did not
      develop any magic specifically dedicated to this task. There are
      some spells which <em class="calibre8">might</em> be useful, but I could not pass
      those to you due to the Interdict of –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– Merlin," Harry finished, gritting his teeth. He was really
      starting to hate the mythical mage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Cadmus nodded. "I can offer you my input, though. Advice
      on how the body and soul work, knowledge of magic that may have
      been forgotten, even if I cannot teach you spells. I believe that,
      if you set your mind to it, you may be able to create the magic to
      restore those lives within a couple of years. You certainly have
      the right kind of personality to develop the requisite spells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Years.</em> He didn't <em class="calibre8">have</em> years to study just one
      subject, he had to finish his education too, not to mention all the
      political maneuvers he might need to try. And would he even be able
      to stop the grieving parents from wanting to bury their children?
      Would they believe him if he said there was still hope?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Developing this magic would be useful even without the immediate
      need, of course. Future people could profit, when dying of illness
      or injury; they merely needed to be frozen or put under an
      anti-decomposition charm on the moment of their death, and then
      their bodies could be fixed afterwards. But if the method
      fundamentally relied on Life Elixir, its use would necessarily have
      to be extremely limited. Unless they could find a way to stop the
      "deactivation" of life force on death, whatever that meant?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll take it," he whispered. "Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cadmus smiled a strange smile. "You really are genuine in your
      motivations are you? I believe you. Heavens protect us if I'm
      wrong, but I trust you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter drew himself up to his full height. "I think you
      should speak to my brother, Ignotus. If you manage to gain his
      trust, he will be able to help you far better than I can, both in
      the form of advice and of spells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Wouldn't the Interdict of Merlin stop that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Cadmus smiled. "Because I don't think he's dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see I have you both speechless," Cadmus grinned. "Ignotus was
      old and grieving the last time we spoke. He had lost his eldest
      daughter, but still had two children remaining to pass our life
      work onto. Although he believed that we had prioritized
      incorrectly, he did not go so far as to resent the work we had
      achieved. He had developed a second cloak, and told me that he
      would pass it on to his son, while passing my stone to his
      daughter. The first cloak, he intended to use for himself, to be
      able to offer advice and spells to continue our research when the
      other problems in the world are fixed. He urged me not to speak of
      this carelessly, however, as to be discovered by someone with the
      wrong incentives would likely mean his death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And... he's still alive? After more than a thousand years?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he must be. He intended to use a spell of enchanted
      sleep that will slow aging, but can only be broken by an outsider.
      His soul cannot leave until someone either removes the cloak or
      wakes him so he can do it himself. His body will likely have
      stopped functioning, however – you will need to bring Elixir of
      Life to restore him, unless you're prepared to sacrifice some of
      your own life force."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Elixir should not be a problem for this," Dumbledore muttered,
      a spark of life in his eyes quite unlike his usual twinkle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do I find him?" Harry's heart was beating rapidly. It might
      be mercenary, but his mind had instantly jumped to the
      implications. If Ignotus Peverell proved cooperative, he wouldn't
      just be able to develop some form of magic to resurrect the
      Hogwarts children; there was so much more potential. The Peverells
      had lived centuries before Hogwarts, and had been extremely
      powerful. Likely, Ignotus Peverell could teach him more than even
      Slytherin's monster could have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He said that he would make a grave, alongside mine and
      Antioch's. That grave is empty. Speak your vow against death there,
      and when the grave lights up, draw a circle with your wand around
      the motto. Then, you shall learn. That is all I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good luck, young brother."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
