<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 116: The Man Who Lived, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s36" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 116: The Man Who Lived</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Sunday 14 July, 1pm local time. Not that time had much of a
      meaning here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down at the almost-nondescript piece of ocean floor
      he was standing on. It was only half a kilometer deep here, so you
      could survive with only the minor kinds of spells that could be
      learned from books. As long as you knew the location where Ignotus
      Peverell was hidden, you would be able to get there, even if all
      the powerful magic in the world had been lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had gone to the grave and done as Cadmus had told him to.
      There had been a burst of magic and he had fallen unconscious, and
      when a severely dismayed Dumbledore had finally managed to wake him
      up, he had crystal-clear memories of a set of instructions,
      including pointers to a location. Dumbledore had half-heartedly
      suggested sending someone else in first, but Harry had not been
      willing to allow another to go in his stead, sensible though it
      might be. For all the possible risks, this was <em class="calibre8">his</em>
      destiny, his <em class="calibre8">family</em>, and even his father had been more
      eager than concerned when he finally returned from Australia and
      Harry told him what he was up to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, while a trustworthy witch historian set out to deciphering
      and confirming the location (the reference points had changed a lot
      since the time of the Peverell brothers, and to find an exact spot
      in thousands of square meters of random ocean floor was decidedly
      non-trivial), Harry had spent his free time with a Muggle
      Medievalist, studying Old English to hopefully be proficient enough
      to hold a conversation. The historian had also developed a
      translation spell for him, but there was always a little delay in
      the translation and a small risk of inaccuracy; more importantly,
      since it might not be polite to cast the spell on Ignotus Peverell,
      Harry really wanted to be able to say his own parts directly in Old
      English.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now, here they were. Harry was excited and a little nervous,
      but he wasn't really afraid of what he would meet. Albus Dumbledore
      stood beside him, the phoenix on his shoulder, looking very strange
      with a large bubble around its head. Beside him, Hermione with Xare
      and Dad were looking around with curious expressions and, in Dad's
      case, gleaming eyes. Neither they nor the phoenixes could accompany
      him – only one person was permitted entry at a time, and animals,
      even magical ones, were not – but they had wanted to be there all
      the same. Hermione and Dad would go back home if he didn't return
      or contact them in an hour; Professor Dumbledore would wait for
      days in case his help might be needed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione and Dad both gave him a hug, while the old wizard just
      looked ahead. "Good luck, Mr. Potter. We shall await your return
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped forward, to the exact spot where a tiny crack
      could be seen in the floor. This was the place which the vision
      from the grave had shown him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Alacrillgo Miakueep.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The floor shuddered, and a field of <em class="calibre8">something</em>
      surrounded him. And then the floor disappeared, or he himself
      disappeared, and he was lifted down, into the ground, and
      everything went dark and bright and all colors at once, until
      suddenly the movement stopped and he found himself standing on the
      floor of an ancient chamber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry drew in a sharp breath as he stepped off the dais where he
      had appeared, and looked around. He was in a large stone room. The
      air was clear, air-freshening charms apparently still active. There
      was light, although it had no obvious source. The stones felt warm
      beneath his feet, and there was no dust anywhere. This room had
      withstood the centuries unharmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And alongside all the walls were shelves upon shelves of books
      and scrolls. There must be thousands here, untouched by the hands
      of time. Professor Michael Verres-Evans would have felt right at
      home, and Harry felt a twinge of regret that his father was out
      there, just outside the entrance, and unable to see this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't touch the books. There was history here, he knew,
      and a tremendous amount of knowledge, but he would have time to
      look at that later. First, he must do what he came for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the very center of the room stood a large pillar, made from
      some unidentifiable transparent material. It reached up to the
      domed ceiling overhead. Harry approached it. This, he suspected,
      was the final resting place of his ancestor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cloak," he whispered, reaching into his pouch, and drew forth
      the Cloak of Invisibility. <em class="calibre8">One of the Cloaks of
      Invisibility.</em> He threw it around his shoulders, and willed
      himself to see what was hidden behind all such cloaks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there, inside the pillar, stood a stone bench. A figure was
      stretched out upon it, asleep or dead, while a transparent cloak
      covered the whole.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man on the bench looked very, very old. Older than anyone
      had any right to be. He was bald, spotted, and his skin looked so
      dry as to be almost mummified. His hands were crossed over his
      chest, a wand still held in his right hand, which was marked with
      spots and cuts and had bone sticking out of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully reached out a hand to touch the pillar. It
      felt... weird. Not glass, nor any substance he recognized. It was
      more like a wall of force, separating the outer room from the tiny
      chamber that hid the living body of Ignotus Peverell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Twelve hundred years old.</em> Of course, Peverell had been
      asleep for most of that time. Not physically dead and kept under
      preservation charms, as Harry had expected at first; there were no
      anti-decomposition charms powerful enough to stop degeneration for
      centuries. So the enchanted sleep Ignotus Peverell had placed
      himself under more than a thousand years ago actually kept his
      essential functions active – just very, very slow. In a sleep like
      that, he could last for two or three millenniums before his life
      finally ran out completely and his body would start to fall
      apart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cleared his throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ignotus Peverell," he spoke loudly, his voice echoing hollowly
      all through the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the ground beside him, a golden pillar rose up, on top of
      which stood a marble bowl, a gleaming sharp pin in its center.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The magic might have kept Peverell's body functioning on a base
      level, but after a thousand years he could not have enough life
      left to be conscious, let alone speak. This – or so Cadmus had
      explained, after Harry had watched the vision on the grave and
      asked him for clarification – was why he had supplied a way for
      visitors to help him. A sacrificial ritual, which would take the
      visitor's own life force and pass it to Ignotus. The ritual was
      costly, requiring the sacrifice of far more life than the recipient
      would obtain; the visitor would have to spill half a liter of their
      blood into the bowl and sacrifice ten years of their life just to
      provide Ignotus with enough strength to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, Harry had other options. He held his hand over the
      pouch. "Bottle of Elixir." Flamel had been <em class="calibre8">very</em> interested
      in this development, and had gladly supplied the necessary amounts
      of Life Elixir. Harry carefully tipped the contents of the bottle
      into the bowl. This would be the moment of truth. Would his
      great-great-and-some-more-great-grandfather still be alive?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At first, nothing happened. But then the figure started to glow.
      Harry sat down on the ground, waiting, until finally the eyelids
      slowly opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who are you?" The whisper came out like a sigh in the wind. The
      man's lips had hardly even moved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My name is Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres." Almost without
      thought, Harry's voice fell into a reverend tone. The surroundings
      just seemed to require it. "I have been told that I am a direct
      descendant from you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Immensely slowly, the ancient head turned to look at the
      boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are very young."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am. But I have done much, for my age."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is the year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"1992 in the Christian calendar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So long... Tell me, Harry with the long name. Has our family
      completed its sworn mission at last?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice was so brittle, so dusty, that it made Harry wince to
      hear the old man speak more than a few syllables at once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," he confessed. "Our family... has forgotten its quest." Had
      someone in the line, like Harry's father, died too young, before he
      could tell his children? Passed on the cloak and all other
      possessions as inheritance, but not the <em class="calibre8">meaning</em> behind it?
      "I do not know when or how. I never knew my own father; he was
      killed when I was a baby. But for what I was told, <em class="calibre8">he</em> did
      not know what our family's motto meant anymore. I fear... I suspect
      the knowledge was lost early on. Someone died, and didn't pass it
      on –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man of tissue paper let out a deep sigh. It could have been
      his final breath, if he had not still been lying beneath the cloak,
      unable to die until he removed it. Would he even have the strength
      to do so if he wished it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so Death wins at last," the ancient wizard breathed. "By
      taking those who would fight Him first. They were right, then,
      those who called us fools, when we wasted our lives trying to
      achieve the impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Harry exclaimed. "You were <em class="calibre8">not</em> fools, and Death
      has <em class="calibre8">not</em> won." He stepped closer to the pillar, willing the
      man to believe him. There had been pain and resignation in the
      voice, and he couldn't bear the idea of the ancient wizard giving
      up after so long. "While there is life, there is hope. I might be
      your last descendant, but I am still here, and I am still going to
      fight. I've sworn months ago that I will never cower in fear of
      Death, long before I even learned of my ancestry, and I'll swear it
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some muscles moved in the ancient face. It was hard to tell, but
      Harry thought that the man might be smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Time leaves strange echoes," the papery voice whispered. "How
      did you find me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... inherited the resurrection stone. Cadmus told me about
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so you came here. To seek immortality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not just for myself! I want to stop everyone from dying.
      <em class="calibre8">And</em> bring back those who have died in the past, as well. I
      have some issues with this whole death thing, and thinks it's
      beyond time to fix it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what have <em class="calibre8">you</em> done about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only a soft, almost inaudible whisper. Harry didn't know
      whether it was a challenge, or a simple question that Ignotus just
      <em class="calibre8">assumed</em> he would have an answer on. Had children, or maybe
      even adults, in the Peverells' time, not been allowed to approach
      their superiors unless they had proven themselves first? Or did he
      assume that his brother would not have told Harry where to find him
      if he hadn't had any achievements to his name?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't matter; Harry, fortunately, did have a pretty good
      answer to that one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have invented a spell to destroy Dementors. Together with my
      friends, I have wiped every single Dementor off the face of the
      earth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A good start." The man was silent for a few moments. "How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could show you... Can you bear more light in here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without a word, the force field darkened. "Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blazing humanoid appeared. Even behind the almost-dark
      field, Ignotus Peverell must see the shape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I developed this spell, by casting the normal Patronus Charm
      using my absolute rejection of Death as the basis. I did not
      realize that it was a new spell at the time, but when I did, I
      taught others. It projects a solid field of life force, which
      Dementors cannot see behind, and which can destroy them, given
      enough strength." He lowered his wand, and the figure disappeared.
      It would be easier for the old man, this way. "I later found that
      it can also block the killing curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it can do <em class="calibre8">that</em>, it might well do more," the voice
      of Peverell spoke, as the force field became transparent again.
      "This opens many questions. Ah." He paused, breathing deeply what
      might have been a sigh. "How I wish I were younger. I do not have
      the energy to research, not anymore. The mind is eager, but the
      body..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I <em class="calibre8">do</em> have that energy. I am willing to dedicate my
      life to research." The man's eyes moved over his face, but he did
      not respond. "Just tell me what to try and I will do it, as long as
      it's safe. Or teach me what you knew, and I will try to
      <em class="calibre8">finish</em> your research. A cure for old age might not be
      beyond reach."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A tempting bribe." There was a strange repetitive breathing,
      which might have been an attempt at a chuckle. "So you wish to
      learn all that I have spent my life discovering?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course! I mean, I'm going to work on it anyway. I will start
      over from the beginning if I must, but if I can start where you and
      your brothers left off, that would save a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of
      trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look into my eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry obeyed, and then a different mind pushed into his own with
      an unstoppable force. He tried to call up his Occlumency barriers,
      even just pretending to be a rock, but it was useless, the mind cut
      right through him. He tried to turn his eyes away, but he had no
      control anymore, he couldn't move, couldn't even cry out, there
      were images running through his head, but he couldn't understand
      them, he was struggling, and failing, and even despite the cloak he
      thought he might be dying –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then it was over. Harry fell over backwards and lay there
      for long minutes, trembling. The mind had gone from him, but the
      terror was still there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I apologize," the thin voice breathed at last. "I had to know
      whether you were sincere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Of course. Just because he is twelve hundred years old and
      dead except for the dying part doesn't mean that he has lost any of
      his powers. He probably lost</em> some <em class="calibre8">to old age, but he lived
      about</em> three hundred years <em class="calibre8">before Salazar Slytherin. Even
      if his magic has faded</em> <em class="calibre8">– and supposedly Flamel's magic
      never fell below fifth-year levels, so the same can be assumed for
      Peverell</em> – <em class="calibre8">he would</em> still <em class="calibre8">be extremely powerful
      for all the forgotten knowledge he has, probably more powerful than
      Riddle.</em> It occurred to Harry that he was completely at the
      mercy of the ancient wizard who was lying there, whom he didn't
      know and had no reason to trust, other than that the man's
      long-dead brother had said it would be a good idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You looked into my mind?" Harry scrabbled up to his feet, but
      stayed well away from the force wall now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. I might cheat Merlin's Interdict, but I will not risk
      destroying the world." There was a pause, as the skeletal figure
      drew a raspy breath. "The knowledge you ask for would be very
      dangerous in the wrong hands. I had to understand what kind of
      person you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you... see everything?" Harry felt <em class="calibre8">violated</em>. Even
      if the man would never stir from this place, he had no right to see
      Harry's <em class="calibre8">thoughts</em>, let alone the things he'd done in
      private. Even if Harry would have told him everything he'd asked
      for, that should have been his <em class="calibre8">choice</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">""A fair bit. I could not see everything; you are too young to
      bear my possession for long. But I think I saw the important parts,
      even if I did not understand it all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Possession?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of Antioch's discoveries. I destroyed his notes. That one
      is far too dangerous to pass on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you can kill someone just by <em class="calibre8">looking</em> at them, I can
      see why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hardly." Again the strange breathing that might indicate a
      laugh. "That was common, in my day. Possession is dangerous because
      it is useful. I could have left my body for yours, if I was willing
      to let you die. It would drain your body, but that would take long
      enough. Immortality, in exchange for one wizard death every twenty
      years or so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah." Harry swallowed. That had been too close.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peverell closed his eyes. "Ssssh. Let me analyze your
      memories."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shifted awkwardly, and sat back down on the ground. Truth
      be told, he was still shaky, and didn't mind some rest either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time passed. Harry allowed the post-possession lethargy to take
      him, closing his eyes and just controlling his breathing for long
      minutes; five, ten, twenty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have fallen so far," the ancient man eventually spoke. "I
      wonder what Merlin would say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizardry has lost much," Harry felt the need to point out. "But
      Muggles have grown. They have research of their own now, and
      thinking machines, and they have traveled into the heavens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes." There was silence for a moment. Then – "And wizardry we
      can fix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We.</em> "Does this mean you will help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some." He paused briefly before adding: "Death is not the only
      enemy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry conceded. "But it's the greatest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Ignotus whispered. "The world is malleable now, more
      than ever before. And you wield influence. There is...
      opportunity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry nodded uncomfortably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The papery man closed his eyes again, silently thinking. Harry
      didn't say anything, just waited, not sure what to hope for. It
      sounded like the man was prioritizing the other problems in the
      world, as his brother had said he would. Not that that was
      necessarily <em class="calibre8">wrong</em>, per se, but it wasn't what Harry had
      come for, and he also wasn't so sure that he wanted to follow the
      guidance of a ninth-century wizard on the matter of how to fix the
      world. But if his help meant restoring ancient magic like the
      healing spells that could save the Longbottoms...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The silence stretched, until Harry started wondering whether the
      old wizard had fallen asleep again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A lot of my friends died recently," he brought up. "We
      preserved the bodies. Cadmus said that you might be able to
      help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ancient eyes slowly opened again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I might." Another silence, then: "But you do not need my
      help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't," Harry conceded. He was pretty sure he already had
      most of the necessary ingredients. The bodies could, for the most
      part, be healed with normal magic and perhaps some Muggle methods;
      a few drops of Elixir of Life could restore the life force pool
      while the True Patronus Charm and phoenix tears could fill it; the
      soul could be returned using the resurrection stone and forced to
      remain inside the body using the cloak. All they needed was some
      kind of spell to bind the soul and body together for long enough
      that the Elixir of Life would have something to latch on to, or
      alternatively, to restore the body to a "Demented" like state which
      the soul could easily be returned to. With the help of Dumbledore,
      Flamel and some of the master healers who had already expressed an
      interest in the project, they should be able to develop such spells
      before long. The only problem was the fine-tuning and
      experimenting. Any mistakes with soul magic might lead to a damaged
      soul which they had no knowledge to restore, and they could not
      afford to waste too much Elixir of Life. "But with your experience
      it would be a lot easier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Easier,</em> Slytherin said contemptuously. <em class="calibre8">That</em>
      <em class="calibre8">sounded like you just woke up an ancient wizard from a
      thousand-year sleep to solve your problems for you a tiny bit
      faster than you could do it yourself.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't mean it like that!" Harry quickly blurted out. "I
      didn't just wake you up to save myself some time, but –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Peverell breathed. "I have seen your intentions. I do
      not mind helping. But remember that my help is not free. I cannot
      function without Elixir of Life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was a good point, Harry realized. If, as Cadmus had
      hypothesized, "reactivating" the life force in someone who had been
      preserved right after death would take no more than a few drops of
      Elixir, then every day he kept Ignotus functional might amount to
      another life he could have saved instead. It was a sobering
      thought. There was a deadline on saving the Hogwarts children and
      professors and Mum; if he took too long their bodies would be
      damaged despite the preservation charms. But wouldn't there always
      be people dying, important to others even if they were less close
      to <em class="calibre8">him</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed. He hadn't at all considered that trying to
      mitigate the war's losses in this way might be the selfish
      choice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess... I guess you must spend your time on whatever is most
      needed." He blinked away the moisture that was threatening to
      gather in his eyes. No matter what they decided to focus on, the
      <em class="calibre8">souls</em> of the dead were safe, they could be resurrected in
      whatever distant future humanity would have the means to do so.
      "Like teaching people your healing knowledge – Cadmus said that it
      used to be possible to restore people who were tortured into
      insanity, and it would be really, <em class="calibre8">really</em> good to get that
      back. But I did mean what I said: I want to work on the death
      problem, and I would really prefer to continue where you left off
      over trying to start from scratch." <em class="calibre8">Standing on the shoulders
      of giants</em>, as his father liked to say. Very few scientific
      breakthroughs happened in isolation, and understanding what the
      Peverells had done would be a key starting point. "I want to learn
      all that you learned, so I can spend <em class="calibre8">my</em> life doing
      something better – doing the things you never got around to, I
      mean. But... maybe a good place to <em class="calibre8">start</em> learning would be
      to look into resurrection of people with preserved bodies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm. You may be right about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took a deep, rasping breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It will take time, to understand your memories. Months, likely.
      And what I took is not complete." There was another pause, then a
      whisper too soft for Harry to hear, and suddenly the platform Harry
      had arrived on moved up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have enough magic left for one possession. Call in your
      teacher, who is waiting outside. I have opened the room for him and
      his phoenix. I will read him, and pass him the spells he needs to
      rebuild your school. He should be able to bear my touch long
      enough. Then, I propose that you go from this place, and study. If
      your teacher arranges sustenance, I shall return my body to sleep –
      but not my mind. That should allow me to contemplate the changes in
      the world, what knowledge can be shared, and what must not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The brittle old man coughed, at the end of this long monologue,
      his entire body shaking. Some flecks of blood fell from his mouth,
      but with just a tiny twitch of the wand they disappeared again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you be all right?" Harry asked, concerned. It would be a
      great loss for the world, not to mention rather embarrassing, if
      the man had lived for twelve hundred years and then died within an
      hour of Harry coming near him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should last some more centuries, before my voice gives out,"
      the man whispered. "If you supply enough food and water, I may be
      conscious – if inactive – for three months without harm, even if
      you do not return with further sustenance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I will definitely come back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," the voice breathed again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Harry's left, a part of the wall loaded with books and
      scrolls lit up in a golden light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take these," rasped Peverell. "The books discuss the ideas of
      soul magic. The scrolls are my own notes. You will study them, and
      design spells and experiments for your mission of resurrection.
      When you return, we will speak of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The living skeleton paused for a while, breathing deeply as
      though gathering the strength to speak again. A smaller section to
      Harry's right lit up in red, and a scattering of books and scrolls
      all around the walls became a bright, shining blue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The red works are for your teacher – I will <em class="calibre8">pass</em> him
      the spells he needs, but have not the strength for instruction,
      which the books will supply. The blue ones are for your friend, if
      she wishes it; the girl with the phoenix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She definitely won't mind," Harry blurted out. Hermione would
      be dying to get her hands on the books in this room. There was no
      doubt she'd go through everything Harry was allowed to take from
      here, and she'd probably have memorized the books on soul magic
      before he'd even read them once. "What are they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"History, culture, philosophy – useful, no matter what she
      chooses. Ask her to come with you, when you return. I will speak to
      her then. And bring a reliable Healer, who can be trusted with
      forgotten spells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, a sudden lump in his throat. Teaching a Healer
      some forgotten spells didn't <em class="calibre8">definitely</em> mean that he might
      be able to give Neville his parents back, but there was hope, more
      than ever before. "I'm sure such a person can be found."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now call your teacher, my apprentice. There is much to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Apprentice.</em> Yes, that was exactly what he'd asked for,
      wasn't it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took the mirror from his pocket to contact Dumbledore. "So...
      does that mean you're going to teach me all you've learned about
      death?" It <em class="calibre8">sounded</em> like it, but the man hadn't actually
      <em class="calibre8">said</em> so...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't sure, but he thought the expression on the papery
      face might be another attempt at a tired smile. "I will." His eyes
      turned serious, his gaze piercing. "And in return, will you give me
      life again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared back, unafraid. "I will."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">-o-o-o-o-o-</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> And that's where the story ends!
      Thank you all for reading, and for your feedback. :) Your responses
      have helped to make the experience of writing and online-publishing
      a story thoroughly exciting, even if occasionally terrifying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This story is now marked as <em class="calibre8">complete</em>, as it's reached
      the end of the main story. However, there will be an additional
      "epilogue" chapter with flashes from the future at some point,
      probably in 2015.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This story was fully written before the final arc of HPMoR, and
      has been known to sometimes confuse people as to what was canon and
      what wasn't. That is why, originally, I posted a short recap of the
      important things which weren't known at chapter 81 and which,
      therefore, i completely made up. With HPMoR complete, this probably
      isn't an issue anymore, but in case people are going for a reread
      "with full knowledge", or are otherwise curious for the recap if
      only for historical reasons, I've left it. In HPMoR:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* there is no such thing as life force</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* we don't know whether there is such a thing as the soul (and
      if there is, it probably doesn't work that way)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* the philosopher's stone doesn't work that way</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* the resurrection stone probably doesn't work that way</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* horcruxes (probably) don't work that way</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* powerful spells do not work that way (that is, it's entirely
      possible that powerful spells do in fact require a lot of power,
      and that the TPC doesn't count)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* the events in Godric's Hollows, Quirrell's and Dumbledore's
      motivations, the reason the last war lasted so long and certain
      people's secret identities are not (all) the same</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Hermione didn't go to Azkaban, didn't get Xare, and might have
      ended up... quite differently from being a basically normal teenage
      witch with a phoenix</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* nobody but Harry has learned how to cast the TPC</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
