<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 37: Epilogue, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s37" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 117: Epilogue</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> I had initially intended for
      this epilogue to be a series of short flashes, showing the months
      and years after Harry meets Ignotus. However, this turned out to be
      a bit too long, with 17k and going before I even reached the end of
      1992, so instead I'll be posting those flashes as a separate story
      – for that, see "Following the Phoenix - Flashes" in My Stories
      under my pen name. Instead, I hope you enjoy this alternative
      epilogue!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also note, for those who haven't seen it yet: there is a
      fanfiction of Following the Phoenix now. Yes, that's right: a
      fanfiction of a fanfiction of a fanfiction! It's not
      <em class="calibre8">entirely</em> consistent with the Epilogue, but that's only
      fair because it was posted months earlier! Look for EagleJarl's
      "Squiring the Phoenix", or just go straight to /s/11107471</p>

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Darkness...Drifting... Pain. The warmth of the sun on his
      face and a distant rustling</em> <em class="calibre8">– waves?<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Consciousness returned slowly, like a gentle awakening after a
      long, long sleep. There was dizziness, along with a slight
      headache, but otherwise he felt quite comfortable. Except... there
      was something. Something important had happened... although he
      couldn't quite recall what, exactly...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle opened his eyes to a yellow-green sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carefully, he sat up and looked around, taking in the area. He
      was on a beach of some kind, but it looked... well, alien. The sand
      was black, the water was far bluer than it had any right to be, and
      in the distance there were some red-brownish shapes that might be
      trees, but not any that he recognized. To his left stood a large
      gleaming building. This was not any place he had ever been before;
      of that, he was certain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His reflection in the building, distorted though it was, showed
      a face he did remember: his own, but much younger than the last
      time he had seen it. He inspected his hands, his body. He was
      dressed in some outlandish clothing; long, wide trousers and a
      vest, but not a style he'd ever seen Muggles wear. His hands were
      well-formed and his flesh healthy, unmarred by the many
      disfigurements his magical experiments had given him later in life.
      The body felt natural, without the touch of glamors or the strain
      of a possessed body. And yet... something still felt just a little
      off...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Professor Riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He almost jumped to his feet as his head snapped towards the
      source of the sound. On pure reflex he grabbed for his wand
      holster, but it wasn't there, so he stepped sideways, taking in a
      more tactical position and readying himself for combat. Only then
      did he register who had just appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before him, a short distance away from the building, stood a
      strong-looking man, not visibly holding a wand. A man seemingly in
      his twenties, with messy black hair and deep green eyes. A man
      whom, had he been a boy, Tom would have known.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter," he observed, as memories came flooding back to
      him. His plans, the war. The Dementor. He knew now, what must have
      happened. "You brought me back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I promised I would," the young man said simply. "Although you
      might not remember that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom narrowed his eyes at him. He <em class="calibre8">did</em> have some memories
      that must have happened after his death, or flashes of them. There
      had been conversations, primarily with the man before him. Most of
      it was a blur, but he remembered... feelings. The boy must have
      used the Resurrection Stone more than once on him. The Resurrection
      Stone which Tom had left him, as a final precaution in the event of
      his defeat, minuscule though the chance of needing it had seemed at
      the time, and near-negligible the chance that it would actually
      help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If he had made me no promises, then I would never have
      consented to help him with any of his goals. And I'm sure I</em>
      did <em class="calibre8">help, at least sometimes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter just nodded. "How are you feeling? Any pain?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A light headache and some dizziness," he admitted. There did
      not seem to be much reason to hide it, and right now, cooperation
      was likely to be a good idea. The boy, his killer, would not have
      done this if he did not have some kind of power over him, and he
      was no longer the gullible eleven-year-old he had once been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter nodded again, as to himself. "That's a common problem. It
      usually passes in a few hours, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Usually.</em> So he wasn't the first. Of course he
      wasn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long has it been, exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Today it is nine hundred and twenty-three years, five months
      and seventeen days after you died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Nine centuries.</em> He took a deep breath, enjoying the
      feeling of air in his mouth. There would be a lot to learn. "And
      what is this place? We are not on earth, are we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we're not. This is Meretseger Penal Colony."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The curiosity shattered as his blood temperature dropped to
      freezing point. "<em class="calibre8">Penal colony?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well yes. What exactly were you expecting? You killed and
      tortured quite a few people, that's not something I would ever have
      allowed you to get away with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you brought me back just to <em class="calibre8">punish me</em>?" Oh, Potter
      would hurt. He didn't know quite how he would do it yet, but there
      would be a way. There was always a way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," the man before him spoke with a sincere tone. "We brought
      you back to <em class="calibre8">live</em>. But that doesn't mean that there will be
      no consequences for past crimes. What is more, you are quite
      frankly a menace to society, and you will have to learn a different
      way of thinking. This place will help you adjust."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">For this audacity you will suffer for years before I allow
      you to die.</em> He clamped down on the impulse to lash out at the
      man. There was nothing to be gained by showing his anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such noble goals," he stated coldly, although retaining his
      outward calm. "You truly expect me to believe that your intentions
      towards me are benevolent?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry Potter shrugged. "I don't expect you to believe
      that. Not yet. Too much has happened between us for you to really
      think of me as a friend, and I don't think you ever understood
      friendship in the first place. But perhaps in time, you will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His anger flared. It would be foolish to try killing Potter
      without understanding the full situation, but <em class="calibre8">something</em>
      had to <em class="calibre8">die</em>. He focused on a nearby stone, and started
      gathering his magic to –</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh no. No no no no no.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter just stood there, a sad expression on his face as Tom
      reeled back in shock. "Were you planning to hurt me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," he ground out, as some of the anger drained from his blood
      and was replaced by sheer terror. "You <em class="calibre8">took my magic?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dementor did," Harry answered. "But you were resurrected as
      a non-magical, yes. It's not as bad as you might think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Not as bad?</em> <em class="calibre8">Help me adjust?</em> How could you
      resurrect me like <em class="calibre8">this</em>?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You no longer need to fear death," Potter answered bluntly.
      "Nor torture, hunger or excessive misery, unless you break the most
      fundamental laws of the interstellar government. You will not be
      surrounded by idiots if you do not choose to be. Indeed, there will
      be ample chance for intelligent conversation, with greater minds
      than yourself if you so choose and they are willing to entertain
      you. You will have the opportunity to study and apply yourself to
      any field of your choice. Is this not what you desired?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! I never desired to be a <em class="calibre8">Muggle</em>! Damn you, Potter,
      my magic is part of who I am!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It <em class="calibre8">was</em> part of who you <em class="calibre8">were</em>. Now, you will
      have to learn to live without it." The voice was firm, accepting no
      arguments, but then turned more gentle. "For now. You can get a new
      body, with magic, if you can afford to pay for an additional
      resurrection or are wiling to perform community duties using that
      magic. But not until you are released."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah. Stick</em> and <em class="calibre8">carrot. How elegant.</em> Slowly, the
      red-hot rage retreated, leaving only crystal-cold clarity in its
      wake. The situation was agonizingly clear. Potter and his
      associates – whoever they were – were dominant, and they were
      intent on teaching him whatever lessons they had in store. The only
      sensible course of action was to take the slap, follow their little
      plans, and allow them to see what they desired to see. There was a
      bitter taste in his mouth; he had hoped never to have to do this
      again. But he could do it; for now, he would pretend to lose. His
      revenge would be all the sweeter for it later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," he finally bit. "What are the terms of my
      incarceration?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the face of his ancient friend/enemy as the
      seething anger dissipated, to be replaced by cold calculation. He
      could see it, the moment Tom Riddle decided to <em class="calibre8">pretend</em> to
      lose. He had known many such moments himself, over the course of
      his long life, more than enough to recognize the pattern of
      thinking in the one who first taught him to do so. Except that
      <em class="calibre8">Harry</em> had learned the original lesson Riddle's Sensei had
      tried to instill. He knew that he was imperfect, and that not every
      battle could be won; when the situation called for it, he could
      lose without planning a come-back. Riddle, Harry was sure – and
      Kahimari-Sensei agreed with him – never had learned that
      lesson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had no illusions: Voldemort was unquestionably evil. He would
      not lightly forgive Harry for the humiliation of being imprisoned
      like a common criminal. But there would be time. Voldemort would be
      imprisoned – and following an advanced social reformation course –
      for almost as long as he had lived in freedom, and in time he would
      almost certainly come to see that more could be gained by playing
      within the system than by trying to overpower it. Harry's Dark Side
      had mellowed; been turned to good. Its originator could do the
      same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Tom Riddle spoke at last. "What are the terms of my
      incarceration?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath. "You will be confined to this island
      for fifty years –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Fifty?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but there will be both company and intellectual
      stimulation. For the company, you've got me. I'll come over every
      day in the first few months, then at least a few times a week for
      as long as you need me, both just for talking and to get you
      acquainted with the way the world works now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flash of anger crossed Riddle's face. "Don't you have anything
      better to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Plenty," Harry shrugged. "But I've made the time. Anyway, it's
      an official function. To avoid isolation, every prisoner has the
      right to a friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hardly think you count as a <em class="calibre8">friend</em>, Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If only you knew</em>, Harry thought grimly. <em class="calibre8">What do you
      think would have happened if I hadn't spoken up on your
      behalf?</em> Resurrection had been possible for well over five
      hundred years, and a routine procedure for almost four hundred. For
      a while, this had been used only for benevolent purposes, as
      Ignotus and Harry had been able to ensure socially responsible
      practices. But once their patents had expired, there was nothing
      they could do besides political pressure to stop the resurrection
      of history's villains for the purpose of revenge. Harry's influence
      had stretched <em class="calibre8">just</em> far enough to protect minor dictators
      and warlords. He had managed to save Voldemort by arguing his goal
      of preventing the destruction of the world, and illustrating that
      the man had indeed succeeded in halting the third world war before
      it began. There had been no way to stop what was done to Hitler,
      Grindelwald, Pot, Mao, Nero and quite a few others. Harry had
      waited and lobbied for centuries, until the judicial system had
      fully transformed to focus on reformation and reintegration, before
      he had proposed also bringing back the darker personages of times
      past and giving them a new chance at life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But you are not ready to hear that yet. You will find out on
      your own eventually, when you start looking for it. It's all a
      matter of public record, after all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He merely shrugged. "I suspect that I am the best friend you
      have. However, I suppose that since there <em class="calibre8">is</em> somewhat of a
      history between us –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like you being directly responsible for my death?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For example. Or <em class="calibre8">you</em> killing my parents, having my best
      friend sent to Azkaban and then attempting to murder me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was self-defense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised an eyebrow. "Including the parts about my parents
      and Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a sense." There was even something resembling a brief smirk
      there. "And they got better, didn't they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eventually," Harry conceded. "Although my parents, at least,
      were not very happy with you for wrecking their lives. But yes, I
      have forgiven you for my personal grievances." He sighed at
      Riddle's dismissive look. "Even so, you do have reasonable cause to
      protest my presence and ask for a replacement. But unless you
      happen to have someone in mind who is licensed for the function,
      you will probably be assigned a professional therapist
      instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle's face twitched. "I suppose you'll do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you. Now, as for the material details... this island is
      yours for the term of your sentence. No one else can come here, but
      on the flip side, neither can you leave it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">cannot</em>, or I am not <em class="calibre8">supposed</em> to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both, I hope. There's nothing on this planet but a bunch of
      scattered islands, and the water currents are such that even just
      trying to get to the next one would most likely see you killed. The
      entire planet combined does not have the resources, mundane
      <em class="calibre8">or</em> magical, to support leaving it, and it's heavily warded
      besides."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle frowned. "And, hypothetically, what would happen if I
      were to die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Depends on <em class="calibre8">how</em> you die. If it happened in a misguided
      escape attempt, you would most likely be placed on a no-resurrect
      list. Future generations may choose to ignore that list, or just to
      use your soul as fuel for some sacrificial ritual. I would advice
      against finding out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway," Harry continued, "this island is yours, and contains
      everything you need to survive – you will need to farm and mend
      your own clothing, but there are enough supplies to get you through
      the starting period and several bad winters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked inwardly as Riddle grimaced in distaste. <em class="calibre8">Yes,
      Professor, you will have to learn to work as Muggles did during the
      time you grew up. I doubt you're ever going to like it, but it will
      do you a world of good to actually have to put in a bit of work to
      live, rather than chasing your ambitions while getting by on your
      magic.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides that," he continued, "you have a computer – although it
      does not much resemble the early computers you used to have a
      passing familiarity with. You shouldn't have a problem handling it,
      though; plenty of wizards from our time and well before have
      managed it, even purebloods of well-below-average intelligence. The
      computer gives you access to a vast library of literature from all
      the ages and cultures, as well as training programs to learn how to
      live in the modern world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose this is the intellectual stimulation of which you
      spoke?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Part of it. You will also be allowed access to the Internet, in
      a month or so once you've properly settled in. The Internet is,
      well... like a huge collection of worlds where the inconvenient
      rules of physics and magic don't need to apply. You can meet people
      there, debate politics or anything of your interest, you can access
      all the unrestricted knowledge of humanity, join scientific
      projects... A large part of most people's daily life takes place in
      the virtual universe. That's sort of a necessity, actually, with
      people living all over the physical universe – it's pretty costly,
      even with magic, to transport people over interstellar distances,
      but <em class="calibre8">data</em> is easy, so the people developed ways to simulate
      all kinds of physical interactions without having to actually leave
      your room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle raised an eyebrow. "And you would give me free access to
      <em class="calibre8">that</em>? This would seem to defeat the entire point of
      imprisonment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, social views of what punishment should entail have
      changed a bit. But you're right, it's not entirely free access;
      there will be restrictions and places which are closed to you or
      where you are denied anonymity. Also, most importantly, all your
      activities will be monitored by Mad-AI."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle frowned. "Mad-AI?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. "A portrait of Mad-Eye Moody, hooked up to a
      computer and linked to other portraits for advice. Basically
      Mad-Eye's personality but thinking a million times faster, which is
      able to avoid certain reasoning flaws Mad-Eye is prone to. He is
      aware of everything you do on the Internet – and certain aspects of
      your presence on the island for that matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Including any communication I may have?" The ice dropped back
      into the voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry admitted. "I'm afraid people in detention do not
      have the right to privacy. I <em class="calibre8">am</em> sorry about that, but at
      least nothing is passed to a human unless there is reason for
      concern."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle scowled. "Will I at least have <em class="calibre8">mental</em>
      privacy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Spoke the greatest Legilimens of his time.</em> "Mostly.
      Your mind will not be studied while you are here, but when the time
      of your release approaches, you will have to undergo strict testing
      to verify that you are safe to be released in society. That of
      course includes a complete examination of your mind by a human
      professional. They will be Obliviated afterwards, but they will
      point out any potential issues of concern first. And since I know
      you're wondering: yes, Muggles can practice Occlumency, but no, it
      won't help you as the use of Occlumency can be detected on a brain
      scan, which of course you will be exposed to during the
      examination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle looked livid. "And what will happen if they find
      something 'of concern'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That will be judged at the time by more specialized people than
      me," Harry shrugged. "It isn't really something you need to be
      worried about right now. There are many options. For example, you
      could be resurrected into a three-year-old body and Obliviated
      –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not even if you get all your memories back on your thirtieth
      birthday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that won't happen unless you choose it, anyway. It worked
      very well for Albus, though – becoming a child again was what
      finally allowed him to heal and forgive himself for his mistakes.
      Although I suppose being raised alongside his original brother and
      sister also helped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not Dumbledore," Riddle hissed. "What happens if I refuse
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure, it doesn't come up very often. You might be
      assigned therapy, or killed until such time as humanity has evolved
      enough to figure out what to do with you, for example. But there
      really is no reason to assume that any of this will be needed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Truly? Do you so fully believe that you can change me? That I
      will <em class="calibre8">let</em> you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, I don't think you need all that much changing – you
      mostly need to <em class="calibre8">adjust</em>. The world has changed,
      <em class="calibre8">people</em> have changed. The universe isn't what you used to
      know, and most of your old beliefs just don't apply anymore. You
      never truly sought power for yourself, and there are a lot more
      rational people around these days to achieve whatever goals you set
      in a constructive way. You have true immortality, once we solve the
      entropy problem – which, if the theoretical magicians are to be
      believed, should be doable <em class="calibre8">well</em> before it becomes an
      issue. And if you need a negative incentive against acting up, law
      enforcement is a lot more effective and run by some highly
      intelligent minds these days. Basically, there is absolutely no
      reason whatsoever why you should be a menace to society once you
      understand how it works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Voldemort shrugged noncommittally. "But forgive me if
      I am not too enthusiastic about a system which has taken away my
      magic, freedom, privacy and control over my life, which insists on
      seeing my inner nature 'adjusted', and yet expects cooperation and
      gratitude."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not quite –" Harry stopped. There was no point arguing.
      "It's fine, you have every right to be angry. But if you want a
      small point of light to look forward to, Salazar Slytherin is quite
      interested in meeting you. I'd be happy to introduce the two of you
      when you have Internet next month."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle's eyes widened only slightly. There were a few moments of
      silence, before he spoke again, in a tone more detached than cold.
      "You know him, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite well. He is one of my earlier apprentices, and still a
      good friend. <em class="calibre8">Usually</em> we guide people into their new life
      by having them taught by someone they used to know in their first
      one – a grandchild, friend or student, typically – but it takes
      quite a while to get far down history that way, and Salazar was a
      bit of a special case due to his example function."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a longer silence after that, as Riddle's hostile look
      turned measuring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm over nine hundred years old, Professor," Harry said
      quietly. "I'm a scientist, teacher, politician and business owner.
      I have lived half a dozen lifetimes, adapting to constant changes
      in the world all the time. I'm not the child you used to know
      anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can see that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled wanly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's time for me to go. I'll be back tomorrow." He
      hesitated, then glanced upwards. "One more thing you might like to
      know... I realize the sky here isn't much to look at, but at night,
      you can see the stars. In winter, it's a near-perfect image."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle froze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever else you might feel," he spoke quietly. "There is
      still beauty in the world. Just... keep an open mind, okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a last look at the man before him, he canceled the hologram
      and closed the communication channel. He wasn't on the same planet,
      of course; he wasn't even in the same star system. Being physically
      near Riddle would not have been safe. Besides, he was needed where
      he was, in an intergalactic exploration vessel under Hermione's
      command, searching for signs of non-earthly life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several million light years away, Tom Riddle kept staring at the
      place where Harry had disappeared for a long time afterwards.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">-o-o-o-o-o-</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Sometimes, when this flawed world seems unusually hateful, I
      wonder whether there might be some other place, far away, where I
      should have been. I cannot seem to imagine what that place might
      be, and if I can't even imagine it then how can I believe it
      exists? And yet the universe is so very, very wide, and perhaps it
      might exist anyway? But the stars are so very, very far away. It
      would take a long, long time to get there, even if I knew the way.
      And I wonder what I would dream about, if I slept for a long, long
      time...</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">-o-o-o-o-o-</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> And that, truly, is where this
      story ends. I thank you all for reading. :)</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
