<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence, Chapter 7: HiSHE - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence, Chapter 7: HiSHE, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence, Chapter 7: HiSHE"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: How It Should Have Ended</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence, Chapter 7:
      How it Should Have Ended</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">This is a rewrite of the seventh chapter of Ginny Weasley
      and the Sealed Intelligence, which is itself a continuation fic of
      Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality, which is, in turn, a
      fanfic of the original Harry Potter. Don't get confused,
      now.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"One last note," said Professor Lockhart, apparently, "before we
      begin a hands-on activity. I bet you thought we wouldn't have
      hands-on activities in this class, because of the system of armies.
      That is incorrect; though lecture is a worthwhile component of this
      class, I would not be a worthwhile instructor if it was the only
      component with which I provided you. I want to keep you all on your
      toes at all times, so: I am not actually here. About a minute ago,
      I invisibly left the classroom, in the middle of my lecture, and
      seamlessly replaced myself with an illusory duplicate delivering a
      prerecorded message, which should be ending shortly. On my way out,
      I sealed the classroom doors shut. The cage behind me is Charmed to
      open when this message ends." The false Lockhart began to flicker,
      and-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">"Prismatis,"</em> said the calm voice of Draco Malfoy. A
      shimmering, multifaceted sphere sprang into existence around the
      cage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not panic," said the recording of Professor Lockhart. "The
      pixies have been enchanted to do no significant damage to anybody
      or their belongings. What precisely is meant by the word
      'significant' is for you to decide. Your objective is to use any
      and all appropriate tools at your disposal to minimize harm to you
      and yours. In an indefinite period of time, I will return and
      resolve the situation. Good luck!" Lockhart vanished before
      everyone's eyes, a tiny door made of golden metal bars swung open,
      and everyone watched silently as the shrieking pixies slammed
      themselves against the inside of the Prismatic Sphere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A little help would be appreciated," said Draco through grit
      teeth. "They're quite a lot stronger than they look."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">"Prismatis,"</em> said three people simultaneously, and
      three iterations of the rainbow shield appeared in concentric
      spheres around Draco's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He let his disappear, dropping his wand arm to his side and
      wiping the back of his robe sleeve across his slightly glistening
      forehead. "My thanks, Miss Patil," he said, nodding curtly in
      Padma's direction. "Mr. Goldstein," a nod to Anthony; "Miss
      Greengrass", and to Daphne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Padma dropped her shield, and Draco brought his wand to the
      ready, preparing to recast the spell around the two remaining
      Prismatic Spheres.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny looked up to where Harry was sitting in one of the upper
      rows; he was leaning back in his chair with a wide grin dominating
      his face, arms crossed. He seemed as if he might begin to whistle
      at any moment. Beside him, Hermione was waiting patiently
      for…something. She leaned over to whisper something to Harry, and
      he shrugged, still smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rest of the class was staring at the cage, or the ceiling,
      or twiddling their thumbs. They jumped as Professor Lockhart's
      voice spoke from the blank monitors on their desks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, very well done; bravo to the four of you who have shown
      you can cast a simple variation on Protego. In the unlikely event
      that you ever encounter a hostile swarm of Cornish Pixies already
      behind the bars of a cage charmed to open after set amount of time,
      you will undoubtedly find victory close at hand. The lesson,
      however, was on how to deal with them in the open. That lesson will
      now begin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anthony's and Daphne's shimmering shields winked out, and the
      horde of angry pixies quickly began to spread throught the-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">"Peskipiksi Pesternomi!"</em> shouted two voices in concert.
      Harry and Hermione were both on their feet, wands pointed towards
      the pixies below, who were now drifting, dazed, back into the
      cage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door to the classroom swung open, and Professor Lockhart
      strode back into the classroom. "Where did you learn that spell,"
      he asked sharply, eyes narrowed on the two as the last of the
      pixies entered the cage, the golden-barred door clicking softly
      shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">"Colloportus,"</em> Draco intoned quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart ignored him, still focusing on Harry and
      Hermione. "That spell is not something a second-year would normally
      know; I—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Invented it to deal with an infestation of Pixies in a village
      in South America," interrupted Harry, smile beaming beneath his
      brilliant green eyes. "We know." He held up a thin blue hardback
      book with stylized letters across the cover.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do so love books, Professor," said Hermione earnestly, hands
      clasped before her. "And <em class="calibre9">Picnicking With Pixies</em> was just
      such a wildly informative read, really. I don't think I've ever
      learned so much from one book - did the village leader really gift
      you the ancient magical Relic of Ahk-Su-Pa in thanks for getting
      rid of the pixies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart did not answer, lips pressed tightly
      together. Instead he turned on his heel, exiting the classroom as
      quickly as he had entered. "Class dismissed," said the monitors as
      he passed through the doorway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny waited by the door while students filed out, craning her
      neck, hoping to catch… "Harry," she squeaked as he stepped out,
      Harmione on his other side. <em class="calibre9">No squeaking - he's just another
      student, there's no reason to be intimidated by him!</em> Except
      for all the hundreds of reasons that there were. She swallowed, and
      then spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I- do you think I could borrow that book you learned the
      spell from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave her a grin. "Sure, I have to go check out another
      copy from the Library anyway, for someone who needs it more than I
      do. Or, well, exactly as much as I do." He reached into the pouch
      at his waist, said "Picnicking With Pixies," and when he withdrew
      his hand he was holding the electric-blue book he'd shown Professor
      Lockhart a minute earlier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I- thanks…" she said, watching him and Hermione set off down
      the corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She opened the front cover and saw the list of people who had
      recently taken it out of the Library, Harry's name at the top. Next
      to each name was the time and date the book was checked out. Ginny
      blanched. <em class="calibre9">Wait, but that's only an hour before class began! How
      did he-?</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
