<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Self-Modification - Harry Potter and the Methods of Self-Modification, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Methods of Self-Modification"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">This story is a direct sequel to <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and the
      Methods of Rationality</em> (HPMOR), and is written assuming that
      you have already read HPMOR. (If you read it a long time ago, you
      might want to refresh your memory for details of chapter 122.) I
      strongly recommend that you read HPMOR before reading this story,
      otherwise you will a) have the living daylights spoiled out of you
      for HPMOR pretty much right away, b) miss a lot of worldbuilding
      and nuances of prior events that help motivate the characters, c)
      likely have some difficulties following the characters' thoughts
      (since they tend to build on techniques and memories they already
      have), and d) have a disadvantage when it comes to the puzzles
      because of b) and c).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you still want to read this story without first reading HPMOR
      (perhaps you followed the author's advice of trying the first 10
      chapters and then giving up if you didn't like it), I recommend
      that you do the following:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1. Read a plot summary for HPMOR; the author of <em class="calibre7">Significant
      Digits</em> has written a nice short one at
      <strong class="calibre8">anarchyishyperbole dot com slash p slash previously dash on
      dash harry dash potter dash and dash methods dot html</strong>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2. Read the Setting Primer, which should be findable as a story
      on my profile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">3. If you have trouble following a character's thoughts while
      reading, try looking for a nonfictional explanation of any missing
      principles and/or techniques. This is a long shot since you
      probably don't know what's missing, but there will probably be an
      explanation somewhere in the Sequences. Both a freshly edited ebook
      version of the Sequences and the original posts can be found from
      <strong class="calibre8">wiki dot lesswrong dot com slash wiki slash
      Sequences</strong>. Another useful tactic is to go through the
      chapter titles of HPMOR and look up any that appear to be terms you
      don't know.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Based on reader reactions to HPMOR, its disclaimers regarding
      didactic intent were clearly not strong enough. In an effort to
      overcome the Illusion of Transparency, I am making my disclaimer
      stronger. So:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1. The views of the characters (and this means <em class="calibre7">any
      character</em>, not just 'villains') are not necessarily the views
      of the author. And even if they were, that wouldn't mean they
      should also be <em class="calibre7">your</em> views.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2. Yes, part of the intent is to present models of ways of
      thinking and rationalist techniques. This does not mean that the
      characters' thoughts and beliefs are always correct or even
      well-reasoned – which again applies to <em class="calibre7">any</em> character. In
      fact, I will sometimes deliberately make them wrong (or miss
      important nuances, or not apply a useful technique, or so on). Not
      all of these errors will be corrected blatantly obviously or right
      away. It's also quite possible that characters will be wrong in
      ways that are not deliberate on my part, as I make no claim to
      being a perfect (or adequate) rationalist myself. It should go
      without saying that the latter type of error has no guarantee of
      being corrected at all, although constructive corrections if you
      believe you've spotted an error of this kind (and double-check
      first) will be appreciated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">3. Even when the characters are correct, many of their decisions
      are based on tradeoffs. The right decision for them in their
      circumstances might not be the right decision for you in your
      circumstances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In short, the point here is to provide a hopefully enjoyable
      story that also gives you material you can think about and learn
      from. Please take it in that spirit rather than accepting the
      characters' thoughts and beliefs unquestioningly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And of course, there's the other disclaimer: <em class="calibre7">Harry
      Potter</em> belongs to J. K. Rowling. <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and the
      Methods of Rationality</em> is the work of Eliezer Yudkowsky. No
      one owns the methods of rationality or the methods of
      self-modification.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Rationality content note: This story will eventually contain
      exploration of important insights that can be directly
      happiness-reducing. If all you care about is your own happiness and
      you think that the presence of those insights will become
      sufficiently problematic that you are better off not starting to
      read this story at all, then don't read it. If you yourself have
      something to protect, though, then continue…</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thanks for feedback on a draft of this chapter go to
      kennyloggins1 and Kronopath.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Surrounded by stone, two voices speak two words…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">(in an instant, all would be won)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">…<em class="calibre7">silhouettes outshine the sun… fire black as night.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Beneath the morning sky, Hermione Granger tucked her wand away.
      Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, standing across from her and still
      holding Dumbledore's wand, seemed both relieved and perturbed by
      the purely symbolic vow she'd just made, a fact she filed away with
      the rest of her current set of mysteries regarding Harry. That set
      was getting rather large, really.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, so you're not asking me to accept your oath or anything?"
      Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head and laughed. "You already did, Harry.
      You accepted it the moment you decided to support me in my life
      choices, whatever they are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nearly squeaked while stepping back. "Please tell me it's
      not actually possible to accept oaths without knowing their
      contents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not for any with magical or legal meaning that I know of,
      although that's admittedly not very many. But the point was that
      one of my life choices is to continue being your friend, even
      though being around you sometimes puts me in situations that are
      weird and dark and scary. Or other times just surreal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Less nervous now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About those phrases I mentioned, no. About your oath, yes."
      Harry finally put Dumbledore's wand away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good. Because I have some more questions about other life
      choices I should make soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As long as the answers aren't classified."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since I'm going to possibly study Occlumency and possibly make
      use of a time machine," her voice began to rise, "and possibly
      <em class="calibre7">take my O.W.L.S in two months</em>, is there anything else you
      can tell me regarding all of those? I'm already tempted to start
      drawing up study plans <em class="calibre7">right now</em> so that I can catch up on
      all the classes I missed – even if I did get better grades than
      Dumbledore in his first year, I still missed two months of school –
      and see just how frantically I should be studying, and if that pace
      is actually possible." <em class="calibre7">An Acceptable grade isn't acceptable
      performance.</em> "And as much as a Time-Turner might help with
      that, I still need to understand the rules for actually using it in
      order to account for it in my study plans."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Of course. Here's the book I studied on
      Occlumency. I can get you permission to obtain books on it from the
      library, but that leaves records, so for now just let me know if
      you want more books about the subject. If you want to make your
      knowledge of Occlumency public later, you can, but you can't
      un-tell a secret so please at least wait until you've decided if
      you want to make that one." He held the book out with both hands,
      having reached into his pouch as he was talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stepped forward lightly to take the book, still feeling
      like the new grace in her movements was somehow both strange and
      perfectly normal all at once. She flipped it around to read the
      title – <em class="calibre7">Occlumency: The Hidden Arte</em> – and slipped it into
      her pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for Time-Turners, the summary I gave you is basically all
      you need to know for simple occasional uses like extra studying,
      since it doesn't cause a paradox even if you see your Time-Turned
      self. There's also a pamphlet about them, which includes the
      explanation for those not in on the secret, and if you want to use
      them regularly there's a potion to extend your sleep cycle so that
      it doesn't start rotating in reverse and giving the secret away to
      everyone. If you have more questions-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had taken the pamphlet Harry offered while he spoke, but
      something was off here. "So Time-Turners are actually
      <em class="calibre7">secret</em>, rather than just not frequently mentioned, and
      wizards have potions to alter sleep cycles, but Hogwarts decided to
      treat your sleep disorder by giving you a <em class="calibre7">time machine</em>
      instead of a potion. WHY?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood in front of her, his mouth opening and closing but
      not producing any words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually he began to speak again. "You're right, and I'm an
      idiot for not noticing that myself. Headmistress McGonagall – back
      when she was Deputy – would have vastly preferred telling Madam
      Pomfrey to give me a potion over giving me a Time-Turner. She
      didn't do that, so she didn't know of such a potion, so they
      probably don't exist. I haven't actually heard of a potion to
      shorten sleep cycles, only lengthen them. Unless…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Classified."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright. But you were saying something else about Time-Turners
      before I interrupted you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry seemed preoccupied as he continued to speak. "Um. Right. I
      was saying that if you have more questions about Time-Turners, you
      can ask me; I suppose you could ask Headmistress McGonagall but I
      think she'll be rather busy for the foreseeable future. Um, as for
      O.W.L.S, I'm already working on an O.W.L study plan for myself and
      I'll show it to you when I'm done. For now I suggest that you start
      on reading the Occlumency book and deciding if you want to study
      it, since the preliminary exercises take some effort to pick up and
      Wednesday is in two days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In that case, I suppose I should start on it right away. When
      do you think you'll have your study plan done?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably later today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to look out over the Hogwarts grounds, just for a
      moment, and then hugged her again. A breeze blew some of her curls
      into his messy hair, and they both laughed together as she ever so
      carefully hugged him back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll come by after dinner then. Up here again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded and let go of her. "Sounds good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She let go of him in turn, and waved with one hand as she slid
      down the ladder from the roof.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paused at the top of the stairs out of Harry's office.
      She felt like she could <em class="calibre7">run</em> straight down the long, slowly
      winding staircase without falling, an activity that would
      previously almost certainly have resulted in highly unpleasant
      injury. For that matter, she had just slid down a ladder with no
      more difficulty than if it was a playground slide. And she couldn't
      help but think that this sort of power would be very useful for
      say, outmaneuvering or outrunning trolls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she started down the stairs, her thoughts returned to the
      other thing she'd been wondering about, the thing she'd started
      wondering about as soon as she saw Professor Flitwick flying a
      broomstick towards her in that graveyard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">How much more do I have to do to survive?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had done everything a good student was supposed to do in
      order to stay safe. She'd paid attention in all her classes and
      studied her textbooks and practiced the assigned spells under
      proper supervision. She'd steadfastly avoided forbidden areas, even
      the third-floor corridor that apparently wasn't forbidden last
      year, and always followed the rules of Transfiguration (except for
      that incident with Harry's experiments). She'd read beyond the
      required material and participated in Professor Quirrell's armies
      and taken Harry's suggestions on additional magic items for her
      protection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet all that hadn't been enough to save her, even under the
      aegis of the Hogwarts wards, even when she'd correctly identified
      the evil Professor out of everyone in Hogwarts, and so she had
      <em class="calibre7">literally died</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had resurrected her somehow, giving her the chance to
      learn from a mistake of that magnitude which most people never got.
      So far, what she'd been realizing was how much she had to
      learn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Following rules and expectations was clearly not sufficient, and
      neither was going above and beyond expectations in the obvious
      ways. More magic items hadn't helped when she hadn't taken
      precautions against them being sabotaged. Knowing more spells and
      more facts about trolls hadn't helped when the particular troll she
      faced turned out to be unharmed by sunlight and she couldn't
      leverage her spell knowledge into <em class="calibre7">actually keeping the troll
      from harming her</em>. Knowing about all sorts of Muggle weapons
      didn't help her when she didn't have any of them available and
      couldn't Transfigure them in time. At the time those protections
      had seemed to be plenty, though, and that was the trap; she had
      expected her existing precautions to be enough to keep her safe, so
      she didn't want more resources spent on giving her extra
      advantages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other hand, Harry's sort of reasoning, full of looking
      for every advantage and taking extra precautions and disregarding
      expectations whenever it suited him, also seemed possibly
      <em class="calibre7">useful</em> but not <em class="calibre7">sufficient</em>. He had thought of
      carrying a magical first aid kit everywhere, even before he had any
      particular reason (that she knew of, anyway) to suspect an attack.
      And then he had actually acquired one and managed to use it when an
      attack occurred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet when Harry had plunged the syringe of oxygenating potion
      into her neck, she'd recognized it – from a conversation she'd had
      with Harry about their respective introductions to Diagon Alley, so
      long ago – and wondered if that action would actually help her.
      (From having read her parents' human physiology textbooks and
      considering how quickly she lost consciousness afterwards, she
      suspected that it might have made things worse instead by
      <em class="calibre7">decreasing</em> circulation to her brain.) In retrospect, this
      line of thinking seemed far more useful to have <em class="calibre7">well in advance
      of needing the answer</em>, when there was time to look things up
      in the library and work through the problem without anyone's life
      depending on how long it took to get the result. And this appeared
      to be a thing Harry hadn't thought of sufficiently far in
      advance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even her new mysterious superpowers weren't enough to keep her
      alive in this world. Last night, a scarred man with a bright blue
      eye had popped out of the Floo, wand raised and whirling, and spoke
      the words of the Killing Curse with his wand aimed at her chest
      before she'd registered the possibility of a threat. Afterwards
      Professor Flitwick had introduced the man as Alastor Moody, who had
      then gruffly explained that he was only checking her for possession
      by Voldemort, but even though that wasn't an actual attempt on her
      life it still made the point that no amount of grace or speed would
      help her until she noticed the threat in the first place. Even if
      she had had her wand with her she wouldn't have known to raise it
      before promptly dying <em class="calibre7">again</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was what she had faced – and lost to – just for
      existing and being Harry's friend. Now that she had a "heroic"
      identity of her own, and planned to paint an even bigger target on
      her back by choosing to do the best thing she could do even if it
      wasn't the easiest or made her enemies, what would the world throw
      at her next?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was why she had asked Harry about investigating her
      superpowers and acquiring Muggle weapons – she couldn't enjoy her
      life or help others if she was dead. But would that be enough? Was
      "enough" even a useful concept for this?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What level do I need to reach to survive this world, let
      alone improve it?</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's books had been disturbed. It was immediately obvious
      why, since she had last left them interspersed with library books,
      but that was still the first thing she noticed upon seeing her bed
      in the Ravenclaw dorm – even before all the cards on her
      nightstand, or the (probably enchanted to last) flowers surrounding
      her bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She reached down and neatly piled the flowers on one side,
      clearing the way for her to pick up the note atop the largest stack
      of books on her bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Miss Granger,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">My deepest thanks for saving us from another war.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">As you have no doubt noticed by now, I collected the books
      you had signed out from the Hogwarts library at the time of your
      death. Since you will be staying in Hogwarts for at least part of
      the summer, you are of course welcome to pick up any of those books
      if you wish to resume reading them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">(Summers are an excellent time to borrow books in high
      demand, by the way – Hogwarts library lending policies remain the
      same but far fewer students are around to take advantage of
      them.)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Madam Pince</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione balanced on the toes of her right foot as she
      considered the note.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She would return to the library soon enough, but probably
      wouldn't be after quite the same books anymore. Before she had been
      reading whatever caught her interest, but right now she had
      specific problems to solve, and solve fast. Like learning four
      years of material in two months.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But why did Harry want her to get her legal majority so fast?
      What plan did he have that was worth, at least in his mind, getting
      Acceptables on her O.W.L.S? What had he gotten himself into that
      involved Unbreakable Vows and phrases like "the end of the world
      and its magic"? Last time she checked, he didn't want to destroy
      the world either; if anything, he wanted to make it a better place
      to live.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had good intentions with all his plans, he didn't want to
      hurt anyone and often wanted to help, but he didn't always go about
      it in a very nice way or get the best results. Sometimes he did
      truly spectacular things like getting Professor Snape to apologize
      in front of the whole Great Hall, other times he did spectacularly
      bad things like scaring Padma Patil by pretending to be a ghost,
      and yet other times he did deeply strange things like trying to
      scare Lucius Malfoy immediately after going sixty thousand Galleons
      in debt to him. (Honestly, she wasn't quite sure what Harry had
      <em class="calibre7">intended</em> to accomplish with that last one.) Overall, he
      was a well-intentioned force of chaos to anyone who didn't know
      what he was planning and why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it had occurred to her that letting a well-intentioned force
      of chaos arrange things for her – and possibly the whole world, if
      she had worked out the scale of his plans correctly – was not
      necessarily the best thing she could do, even if Harry was letting
      her choose whether to use the things he arranged. Would getting
      lower marks on her O.W.L.S now prevent her from taking important
      classes later? Would his other plans have other problems? The
      advantages he'd already given her alone… the Time-Turner seemed
      clear-cut enough, if it was safe enough to use for extra studying
      or treating his sleep disorder it was safe enough to use as an
      emergency precaution, but he had told her that he couldn't risk
      himself adventuring and then given her a <em class="calibre7">unique irreplaceable
      Deathly Hallow</em> whose power seemed rather useful for
      <em class="calibre7">getting out of adventures</em>. He could get himself another
      invisibility cloak, but this still struck her as giving up an
      advantage he might need.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could ask those questions now, but she couldn't work out the
      answers unless she knew what he was planning. She couldn't decide
      <em class="calibre7">for herself</em> what the best thing she could do was until she
      knew, and relying on Harry's judgement for that was rather suspect,
      mysterious young wizard or not. Sometimes being a good person, or a
      good friend, meant telling a friend that you thought their plan was
      flawed or not letting them carry it out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry <em class="calibre7">couldn't tell her</em> what his plans were unless
      and until she became an Occlumens. Even thinking about her own
      speculations on the nature of her powers and her own plans was
      hazardous for as long as those thoughts could be pulled from her
      mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And she refused to live her life with restrictions on what she
      was allowed to think about, or with fear of drawing the attention
      of a Legilimens keeping her from doing the best she could do. That
      settled the matter as far as she was concerned; she was going to
      learn Occlumency regardless of it being a "sixth-year thing".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She leapt nimbly into her usual spot on her bed, tucked the note
      into her pouch, and settled in to read.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If that particular development had happened to a slightly
      different mind, everyone would have died.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I am not guaranteeing any schedule for updates at this point; if
      you keep refreshing the page you will most likely be disappointed
      on any given refresh. You can be notified of updates through the
      FFN alert system or through update posts on Reddit ( /HPMOR and
      most likely /rational).</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
