<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Near Mode Far Mode - HPMoR the final exam chapter 114, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Near Mode Far Mode"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 114: the final exam</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">My entry to the HPMoR final exam</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Apologies for the grammar and spelling, this was very
      rushed, but I think I managed to get the idea across</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, Harry James Potter Evans Veres tended to think lot,
      but this time it was probably the most important time he would
      think in his life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hello, this would be a really good time, if anyone in here
      has ANY IDEAS</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shouted at the strangely silent voices inside his
      mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And yes, the situation has got to the point where, while my
      life is preferable, I am happy to take any options where lord
      Voldemort is NOT IN CHARGE OF THE UNIVERSE.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Would that be such a bad thing though,</em> Slytherin
      started <em class="calibre7">I mean, he's probably the best hope the world has for a
      smart effective ruler-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">NO!</em> screamed everyone else</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well, what can we tell him about then,</em> argued
      Ravenclaw, <em class="calibre7">there's partial transfiguration, but he'll probably
      figure that out once he's read enough quantum physics. Lord
      Voldemort will never be able to cast the true patronus, because he
      see's no problem in death, except for his own. We haven't made any
      other brilliant magical discoveries this year, have we?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a quick mental note, that if he ever got out of this,
      he would just tell ALL his internal voices to LEARN THE MEANING OF
      THE PHRASE 'RUNNING OUT OF TIME'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Harry Potter realised something. Something he already knew,
      and would have though of if he had just <em class="calibre7">paid
      attention</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was one internal voice, which never spoke without being
      called upon, which was hard to control, and didn't seem to have the
      ethical qualms that the rest of harry, including his inner
      slytherin, whatever it said, were so insistent on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His dark side. Or, as he now knew it, the part of Tom Riddle
      inside him. What had happened to professor Quirrell, being
      inhabited by a horcrux, was very similar to what had happened to
      him, on the 31st of October 1981.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">One small problem</em> remarked Hufflepuff, since the
      problem was so obvious that everyone, even Gryfindor could see it,
      <em class="calibre7">the person who will not be killed will be Tom Riddle, not</em>
      <em class="calibre7">us.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was starting to make Harry a little uncomfortable, knowing
      that there was another person listening to his thoughts <em class="calibre7">inside
      his head.</em> However, this was not the time for discomfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So how to switch the personality inside his head taking control
      of his body. Since Harry could not perform magic, and he had no
      knowledge of a spell to control Dissociative Identity Disorder,
      this would have to rely on science. Which was probably a good
      thing, seeing as Voldemort had only just started reading up on
      physics, and had no knowledge of psychology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Right,</em> said Ravenclaw, who had immediately taken
      charge, and was strolling through the information in Harry's
      brain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Dissociative Identity Disorder, is the most researched and
      reliable muggle form of what we are experiencing, but there is no
      known way to jolt between personalities. It does normally occur
      because of trauma in childhood, which is rather ironic, seeing as
      our trauma in childhood is because of our multiple
      personalities-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">SHUT UP!</em> Screamed Gryfindor, who aside from being the
      only personality with a sense of time, was rather upset that this
      plan did not involve any dramatic battles between Harry and the
      death eaters, despite knowing that there was <em class="calibre7">no possible
      way</em> Harry could single handedly beat more than 20 death
      eaters, and the most powerful living wizard in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So if we have no way of controlling this by treating it
      as</em> <em class="calibre7">Dissociative Identity Disorder</em> interrupted Harry
      <em class="calibre7">then WHAT ELSE CAN WE DO?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well there is Atlantis complex, but it has not been
      completely tested yet…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I am willing to try anything.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It has lots of symptoms which we don't have, but it triggers
      a different personality with a shock or fright-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Like the dementor turning us into Tom Riddle-</em>
      continued Slytherin</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-and Hermione kissing us bringing us back!</em> Finished
      Hufflepuff</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">it's risky,</em> warned Harry's inner critic, <em class="calibre7">there is
      no scientific proof that any of this will work, let alone evidence
      that kissing Hermione will be a shock again. Maybe it only worked
      the first time, or when she kisses us-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">WELL WE DON'T REALLY HAVE ANY OTHER OPTIONS</em> Harry
      mentally screamed, (He seemed to have been doing that a lot in the
      past minute,) <em class="calibre7">so if it doesn't work, we can just hope that the
      first spell of gunshot does it for us.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile, in the outside world, where Harry's inner
      conversation had only taken about five seconds, Lord Voldemort was
      speaking parseltongue. Harry focused again, and the hissing noise
      became words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Ssso boy, are there any other thingss that you would like to
      tell me. Be warned that trickss are not going to work, ssseeing as
      you are speaking parsseltongue, and I can ssimply asssk you if
      there iss anything you have not telling me. However, I cannot
      risssk using legimenccy, ass our magic will still react
      together.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I do not intent to lie to you,</em> Harry replied,<em class="calibre7">but I
      have one condition. I wish to sssay goodbye to girl child
      friend.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And in return you will willingly ssspeak?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yesss. Remember I say thiss in Parsseltongue.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Your request is allowed, but be quick. And first I will
      speak to you. And, asss well assss anything elsse, you will tell me
      your patronusss charm.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. He didn't particularly want to tell the genius
      megalomaniac his secret, but there was no choice, anyway, hopefully
      he not be dying, and his secret would not be left with just Lord
      Voldemort for very long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I accept, but first I will tell you my other secrets. I
      assume you know the law of potion making?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yes, of course all sensible people can learn that, if
      curious. Thus, it is still an unknown secret.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I have possess another secret, one which you will learn
      yourself in time, when you have studied more science. It is obvious
      for a scientist to think of, but it will take you many years of
      studying to learn.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well boy, what is it, this secret?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It is the art of partial transfiguration. Seeing an item as
      the atoms which makes it, not as whole. It takes a while to learn
      the way to see it, but it should speed you up in the long
      run.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Thank you. And the patronusss?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yess.</em> Harry paused. He didn't know why he was so
      worried, assuming his plan would work. <em class="calibre7">The key to the true
      patronuss is discovering what the life eaters represent. The animal
      charms work, because animals are ignorant, they do not know what is
      under the cloak, they protect humans with their ignorance. But once
      you know what the life eaters truly represent, and are willing to,
      not accept it, but know it is there and vow to vanquish it, your
      patronus becomes a man, who knows what he can see, but knows that
      he will one day have the power to destroy it. I cannot tell you
      what the life eaters truly are, because the charm would not work.
      You have to learn for yourself, and you can only learn if you have
      true morality, like Hermione, and place true value in all human
      life.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Very well. I will not ask you to elaborate, because I fear I
      have already solved your riddle, and just like you cannot cast a
      true death spell, I will not be able to cast true patronusss. And
      your time to say goodbye to the girl.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly gestured that he was about to move, and when
      Voldemort nodded, he started walking, the death eaters' wands
      following him. As the boy stood over the girl, he was filled with a
      sudden jealousy, of her everlasting life and his possible death.
      This feeling made Harry so disgusted in himself that he suddenly
      burst into tears. That was odd, Harry Potter never cried, at least
      not since the incident with the science project. He looked at her
      peacefully sleeping form, fully whole again, and slowly bent down,
      gazing at her sleeping face. He whispered, "goodbye Hermione" and
      quickly, just as she had done before, kissed her lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry opened his eyes, his heart sank. It hadn't worked,
      his only hope now was for the pain of the first death spell or
      bullet to be enough to jolt his personalities around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Speaking in a loud clear, confident voice, which took every part
      of him to produce, he announced; "I am ready."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr White, would you care to do the honors," Lord Voldemort
      hissed, not a question but a command, at the whimpering man, still
      on the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man took the gun from his masters hand, looked straight at
      Harry's chest, and shot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't miss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The body of the boy who lived fell to the ground, yet Harry felt
      himself rising instead not visible, but an entirely different
      feeling to wearing his cloak. His mind felt freer, emptier. Now
      that Tom Riddle was gone from Harry's head, he realized how much of
      a presence he had been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched his body being shot with bullets coloured light,
      and then knifes, a pool of blood forming next to it on the ground.
      It was a strange experience, and Harry imagined that it was what it
      must have been like to see himself using a timeturner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He did a few quick mental checks, and was relieved to find that
      everything still seemed to be working well, his scientific brain
      was fully functional and his memory was just as reliable. Harry was
      wondering what to do next. Unlike a horcrux, he wasn't constrained
      to a physical object, and he suspected that he could join the mind
      of any one he chose. Well, if that was true, there was one obvious
      option.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry James Potter Evans Veres flew into the mind of Lord
      Voldemort.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
