<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 1: Solo Adventures, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Solo Adventures</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimers: This story is a Dungeons and Dragons/Harry Potter
      crossover, and primarily aimed at readers who are fans of both.
      That said, people only vaguely familiar with either Harry Potter
      <em class="calibre7">or</em> D&amp;D will still likely get <em class="calibre7">most</em> of the
      enjoyment this story has to offer. For those who don't know much
      about <em class="calibre7">either</em>, reading a quick plot summary of Harry Potter
      and the Philospher's Stone (say, on Wikipedia) and skimming the
      article on D&amp;D will likely suffice. Anyone still confused can
      search d20srd (.org), a wonderful website with the entirety of the
      D&amp;D 3.5 rules available for free. Players of AD&amp;D, D&amp;D
      3.0, 4th edition, Pathfinder, and probably other RPGs will probably
      be just fine. You can check my Author's Page for a link to Milo's
      character sheet, more details, and a link to Semiautomagic, an RPG
      I'm working on, currently available as a free beta.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For D&amp;D buffs: this fic uses a few minor house rules which
      I've played with so long I didn't even realize they weren't canon.
      We're using 3.0's XP system instead of 3.5's (XP divides a little
      differently) and Wizards are able to swap out their Scribe Scroll
      bonus feat at 1st level for alternate class features (in this case,
      Spontaneous Divination) as if they were the 5th, 10th, 15th, or
      20th-level bonus feats. Also, magic items like Bags of Holding
      track only weight for carrying capacity, not volume. I rolled
      Milo's stats using the usual system (4d6, drop the lowest) and roll
      his hit dice every level, as well as most of the other dice in
      combats and things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyways, on with the story! If you like it, review it!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre7">Thud</em>—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo hit the ground—<em class="calibre7">hard</em>. There was a brief moment of
      silence before he heard the sound of chairs being slid back on a
      stone floor and people rising to their feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wasn't alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo quickly glanced around, taking in the unfamiliar
      surroundings. He was in some sort of dining room, lying face-up on
      a hardwood table. The room was richly appointed, and Milo was
      keenly aware of their solid brass candlesticks, as one was
      currently poking him most uncomfortably in the lower back. Most
      notable, however, were the half-dozen figures sitting around him.
      They were evil—like, really, <em class="calibre7">obviously</em> evil. Black robes.
      Masks. Hells, there was even a chandelier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take Milo long to realize he should be putting his
      Improved Initiative to good use. As the cultist—these guys
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> to be in some sort of cult—who was sitting at the head
      of the table reached up the sleeve of his robe for a wand, Milo
      unleashed sparkly arcane fury.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavr—</em>Aaaah!" the cultist was cut off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>!" A cloud of blindingly bright, glowing
      golden particles exploded out of Milo's outspread hands, covering
      the cultists and their furniture. The cultists clutched at their
      masks, temporarily blinded by the spell. Milo paused, briefly
      stunned. He'd gotten <em class="calibre7">all</em> of them? <em class="calibre7">Surely, as primary
      casters, they'd have a higher Will save than that... oh well, think
      later, escape first.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Taking advantage of their condition, Milo rolled off the table
      and made a dash for the window. Standard action to stand up, move
      action to hustle and jump... he figured he'd make it just in time.
      There was a surprisingly painful crash (<em class="calibre7">note to self: never
      jump through glass again</em>) and Milo found himself in freefall.
      The window, it seemed, was roughly seven storeys aboveground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Feather Fall,</em>" Milo muttered, slowing his descent. As
      his feet gently touched the ground, he took stock of his
      surroundings. He was standing in the grounds of a rural manor, in
      the middle of some carefully kept gardens. The only thing between
      him and freedom was a clear shot over flat ground with the
      occasional shrub and a low fence. As he began to run, the cultists,
      judging by the hail of magic, recovered from their temporary
      blindness. An unfamiliar sparkling green bolt of light struck a
      shrub next to Milo, causing it to rapidly turn brown and
      wither.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gulp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mirror Image,</em>" Milo cast, summoning a trio of
      identical illusory copies of himself. The four Milos bolted in
      different directions, splitting the cultist's fire between them. As
      Milo approached the edge of the manor grounds, he noticed some
      distinctly unfamiliar mountains in the distance. The sky, he
      noticed, was missing a pair of moons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap," Milo muttered. He must have gotten hit with a <em class="calibre7">Plane
      Shift</em> or <em class="calibre7">Greater Teleport</em>, which was improbable,
      because both of those were well beyond even the supremely dark
      power of the Fell Lord, Thamior the Thaumaturge...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the illusory Milo's was hit with one of those weird green
      spells, vanishing instantly. As another of his doubles went down,
      Milo hopped the fence and ducked behind it briefly. His next spell
      took a little longer to cast than the others had, but Milo hoped it
      would pay off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mount,</em>" he said quietly after concentrating for a few
      seconds. Next to him appeared a grey pony, which, except for its
      eyes—which were glassy and lifeless—appeared all but
      indistinguishable from a natural one. Unlike the mirror images, the
      mount was real—depending on your definition of real, of course. It
      was real enough to get him the Hells out of here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo awkwardly pulled himself into the saddle (he never was much
      of an equestrian, as Skill Points were few and far between for a
      Wizard) and kicked the summoned pony's rump with his heels. As he
      was catching his breath, thinking of how close his run-in was (if
      that spell could just <em class="calibre7">kill</em> a plant like that, imagine what
      it could do to him? Milo's Fortitude save was lower than a serf's
      daily wage) he heard a loud <em class="calibre7">crack</em> from his left. One of
      the cultists suddenly appeared, wand brandished threateningly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust!</em>" Milo cast again, burning his last
      2nd-level spell. As before, the burst of golden light blinded the
      dark wizard. <em class="calibre7">If another one shows up, I'll have to resort to
      harsh language...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They can <em class="calibre7">teleport</em>?" Milo shrieked. "That's a 5th-level
      spell! This is <em class="calibre7">way</em> beyond my ECL! I call shenanigans.
      <em class="calibre7">Shenanigans!</em>" But nobody responded. Who he was even
      talking to was unclear, as there wasn't another soul—except for the
      blinded Death Eater—in sight. After several minutes of galloping,
      Milo decided to rein his pony in for a short break while he
      considered his options.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now you may be wondering, "what the heck is going on?" And
      that's a perfectly valid question, but unfortunately, Milo is as
      confused as you are. Perhaps a brief description of our perplexed
      hero is in order. As far as Milo is concerned, the information
      written on his character sheet sufficed as description: True
      Neutral, Wizard 3, Human, Male, Age: 11, Weight: 71 lbs (his world
      runs on the imperial system, the poor barbarians), Height: 4'9'',
      Hair: brown, Eyes: brown. And you may be thinking, "eleven years
      old? That seems a little young to be a Wizard." And you're right.
      Most Wizards, from where Milo comes from (more on that later) are
      at least seventeen before they become even a level one Wizard.
      Milo, however, managed to pull a fast one involving starting life
      as a Rogue and doing some retraining. "But wait," you protest.
      "That jargon doesn't mean anything to me at all. And even if it
      did, the minimum starting age for a human Rogue is <em class="calibre7">still</em>
      16." But unfortunately, you don't have time to worry about problems
      like that, because Milo is, in fact, being attacked by a Death
      Eater on a broomstick. See what happens when you nitpick?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra!</em>" the evil flying cultist shouted,
      making weird gestures with his wand. Milo felt his pony suddenly go
      limp beneath him as its heart stopped. Milo collided with the
      ground for most of his remaining Hit Points (Milo dumped
      Constitution during character creation, which seemed like a
      <em class="calibre7">really</em> good idea at the time). Weakly, he staggered to his
      feet as the cultist came around for another pass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, there's a reason most Wizards prefer to use a
      <em class="calibre7">Phantom Steed</em> to a <em class="calibre7">Broom of Flying</em>," Milo
      muttered. "That reason is <em class="calibre7">Grease</em>!" he said, with a
      complicated hand gesture to accompany the last word. He cast the
      spell, not targeting the cultist but his broomstick, which became
      nearly frictionless. Without any sort of safety strap or foot
      petals, the broomstick continued accelerating while the cultist,
      unfortunately, did not. Before meeting the ground, the cultist
      vanished with another distinctive popping sound. Milo frowned. What
      kind of cultist can cast save-or-die spells multiple times,
      teleport, afford a <em class="calibre7">Broom of Flying</em>, and yet not manage a
      simple <em class="calibre7">Feather Fall</em>? <em class="calibre7">Maybe they're some obscure
      non-core class</em>? Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">Well, time to loot the
      corpse</em>. A <em class="calibre7">Broom of Flying</em> would make an excellent
      replacement for his ex-pony, which was already starting to fade out
      of existence now that the magic keeping its form together was
      gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo searched for the broomstick, he let his mind wander
      again. The last thing he'd done before slamming into that table in
      the manor house was confront the Supremely Evil Fell Lord Thamior
      the Thaumaturge (try putting <em class="calibre7">that</em> on a business card) with
      his companions. Everything was going according to plan, then
      suddenly... table. Milo was <em class="calibre7">sure</em> Thamior hadn't had a
      chance to get a spell off, especially not one of this magnitude.
      Maybe something over here pulled him across? Why in the Prime
      Material would anyone want to summon <em class="calibre7">Milo</em>, of all things?
      Milo shuddered to think of what Thamior was doing to his party
      without his arcane support. It was probably going to be his job
      upon returning to raise funds for three <em class="calibre7">Raise Deads</em>,
      because a thief, a meatshield, and a glorified box of band-aids
      against Thamior's power spelled T-P-K.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stumbled across the broomstick, which had flown into the
      ground, point-first. He confidently pulled the stick out of the
      dirt, straddled it, and leapt into the air. Nothing happened except
      that Milo looked rather foolish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm, must be command-word activated, I suppose? Swordfish!"
      Nothing happened. "Melon! Rise! Up! Activate! Flight! Abra
      Kadabra!" Ten minutes later, with all the usual suspects attempted
      to no avail, Milo gave up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Detect Magic.</em>" Nothing. The broomstick, as far as Milo
      could determine, didn't have enough magic to power a Bard's
      cantrip. It was an ordinary, mundane broom. For sweeping
      things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wha... what? Then how... Agh, my poor head." Nothing happening
      was making <em class="calibre7">any</em> sense here. Maybe if he found some
      non-cultist residents of this strange world, they'd be able to
      explain things to him. Shouldering the broom, he chose a direction
      completely at random and started walking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some time after 3 AM, the villagers of Hogsmeade were surprised
      to find a dirty, bloodied, half-dead (or rather, five-sixths, to be
      precise, since you asked) young boy stumble into their village
      before collapsing of exhaustion. He was clutching in his hands a
      Nimbus Two Thousand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who is he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he a Muggle? How did he get through the wards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he a student?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey! Is that a Nimbus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he had a broomstick, why was he walking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone send for Dumbledore, this kid needs help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm right here in front of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not you, the <em class="calibre7">other</em> Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Aberforth, slightly disappointed. "Nobody ever wants
      to send for <em class="calibre7">me</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the nearest medical facility was the hospital wing of
      Hogwarts, and, as the villagers reasoned, this boy was more likely
      than not some student from the castle caught up in one of their
      fool adventures, he was rushed with all possible haste to the care
      of Madam Pomfrey, and, more than likely, detention. It was a very
      surprised, and somewhat sleepy, Professor McGonagall who answered
      the door. She immediately sent a Patronus to wake the school's
      Headmaster before carrying the boy to the hospital wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva! What's happening?" Dumbledore (the right one, this
      time) said as he entered the wing. The Deputy Headmistress quickly
      filled him in about what the villagers at Hogsmeade had
      discovered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore frowned. "I don't recognize him, do you?" McGonagall
      shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is most unusual. He's clearly of an age that he should be
      just starting in Hogwarts, so if he's a wizard of magical
      Britain..." McGonagall said, trailing off in thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't we wake him and ask?" Dumbledore suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poppy believes it best that we let him recover. He's suffered
      some fairly serious injuries—it looks like a particularly nasty
      fall, perhaps."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could he be a student of Beauxbatons—or Durmstrang? I'll owl
      Madame Maxime and Professor Karkaroff. In the meantime, keep me
      updated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall sighed. She wouldn't give up being Deputy
      Headmistress for all the gold in Gringotts, but it did involve
      rather a lot more sleepless nights than she would have
      preferred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo awoke to the sound of people talking quietly. The odd thing
      about whispers, Milo had discovered, is that they tend to catch the
      ear even <em class="calibre7">faster</em> than ordinary talking. There were curtains
      around his bed, so he couldn't place a face to the speakers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva! I—I noticed something… well, something most unusual,"
      the first voice (female, human) said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the matter?" inquired a second (also female, human).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The patient, he… well, he recovered," the first voice said
      hesitantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely, that's good news?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes, normally very good news, this being an infirmary,
      recovery is most appreciated. But… not normally with quite the
      alacrity demonstrated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Explain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After <em class="calibre7">precisely</em> eight hours of bed rest, the majority
      of his wounds simply <em class="calibre7">vanished</em> before my eyes," the first
      voice said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I daresay I'm impressed. How did you do it?" the second
      voice—Minerva—asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> do it!" the first voice said, her voice
      rising. "I hadn't actually <em class="calibre7">done</em> much of anything beyond
      cleaning and bandaging his wounds!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then… perhaps he had some Charm cast on him when he entered? Or
      one of the villagers did something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was the <em class="calibre7">first</em> thing I checked! I think… I think
      the possibility should be considered that he isn't entirely human,"
      the first voice said cautiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poppy, get professors Dumbledore, Snape, Flitwick, and
      Sprout—in that order," Minerva commanded. "I'll watch him until
      then, whoever he is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. Why were they so confused? A night's rest resulted
      in healing a hit point per level. Everyone knows that. Had they
      never slept? Were they Constructs—or even Undead? Milo reached for
      his Belt of Hidden Pouches, where he kept (among rather a lot of
      other, useful things) his spellbook. He needed an hour to prepare
      new spells (which he doubted he'd get, but it was worth
      trying.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His Belt was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sat straight upright and checked his other pockets.
      Nothing. He broke out into a cold sweat. Without his spellbook, he
      couldn't memorize spells. If he couldn't memorize spells, he had a
      mere four 0th-level spells and then <em class="calibre7">nothing</em>. He was a
      Commoner for the rest of time, or at least until he could make a
      new one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost as importantly, Mordy was still in the belt. Milo
      concentrated on the empathic bond, to see if Mordy was all right.
      <em class="calibre7">Hunger, Fear, Confusion</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo licked his lips nervously. He'd just begun searching for
      something he could use as an improvised club (<em class="calibre7">not</em> his
      preferred way of doing things) when the curtains were drawn
      aside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who are you, where am I, and what have you done with my Magic
      Items?" Milo demanded, before they were even pulled all the way
      aside. In walked an odd duo. A pair of aging humans in robes
      (Venerable meant +3 Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma, so Milo
      made a mental note not to underestimate these two) who were
      obviously spellcasters of some sort. Great big white beard,
      half-moon glasses, wands… <em class="calibre7">What</em> is <em class="calibre7">it with the casters
      here and wands?</em> Milo wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you are talking about your broomstick, young man, its right
      beside the bed. And I would suggest you mind your manners," said
      the lady, who was sporting a rather severe bun of hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peace, Minerva," said the man in the purple robes. "He's
      clearly been through some sort of ordeal." The old man turned his
      pleasant, grandfatherly face to Milo. "Now, if you would be so good
      as to tell us who you are…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am Milo Amastacia-Liadon," said Milo proudly. For those of
      you keeping score at home, Milo's parents, being cosmopolitan
      humans, decided to give him a Halfling first name and both of their
      (Elven) last names.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I," said the grandfatherly man, "am Professor Albus
      Percival Dumbledore." He said it like Milo was supposed to know who
      he was. Maybe he really was famous; it was Zook who had all the
      Ranks in Knowledge (Nobility and Royalty) in their party. "This, of
      course, is Professor Minerva McGonagall. You are in Hogwarts,
      school of Witchcraft and Wizardry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizardry? Oh, thank Boccob. You're Wizards, then?" Milo asked,
      feeling profoundly relieved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked slightly taken aback.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, naturally we're wizards—Except for Minerva, of course,
      who is, in fact, a witch. You didn't take us for Muggles, did
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Mug—look, I think we're getting slightly afield. Was I
      wearing a belt when I came in here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd have to ask Madam Pomfrey to say for certain, but there is
      a belt on your bedstand," the old wizard said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, thank the gods. Don't you know that it's terribly rude, not
      to mention a sign of hostile intent, to part a person from his
      Magic Items?" Milo grabbed the belt, which was covered in tiny
      pockets (and had many more besides, which were invisible) and
      quickly opened the snap on one of the hidden ones. Out crawled a
      very distressed-looking brown-and-white rat. "Not to mention a
      Wizard from his familiar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Best not let Poppy see that," Dumbledore suggested. "She would
      not, I believe, take kindly to seeing a rat in her hospital wing.
      Now, could you please tell me, of what school—if, indeed, any—are
      you a student?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Conjuration," Milo said proudly, "though I've always had
      something of a knack for Divinations as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The School of Conjuration?" Albus frowned. "Unless I'm
      mistaken, they were shut down, oh, sometime in 1869, after the
      Spoons Incident." Nearby, McGonagall shuddered. "Would you take it
      amiss if I asked to see your wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My wand? I don't have one. Never saw the point, really, and
      even if I wanted one I couldn't afford it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No wand?" McGonagall gasped. But Dumbledore frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, I'm not one to pay close attention to the ins-and-outs and
      developments of sporting equipment, but how is it that you managed
      to come by what I believe to be a <em class="calibre7">most</em> expensive racing
      broom if you can't afford even a simple wand?" Dumbledore
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that thing? I took it off a cultist," Milo said blandly.
      "Seems pretty useless to me. If there's any magic in it, I have no
      idea how to make it work, and its shape is <em class="calibre7">hardly</em> optimal
      for sweeping."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall's mind recoiled from the notion of using a Nimbus Two
      Thousand to clean a house. Thinking the very thought was
      unthinkably unthinkable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think the more questions he answers, the less sense this
      makes," Dumbledore said. "Start with the cultists, then how you
      came to be in Hogsmeade so late at night, <em class="calibre7">then</em> we'll
      discuss your school and the broomstick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My party and I were storming the tower of the Most Maliciously
      Malevolent Magus, Thamior the Thaumaturge. After fighting our way
      past all the usual defenses—you know, skeletons, goblins,"
      McGonagall choked slightly on hearing that, "that sort of thing,
      pretty routine, when we confronted the dark Wizard. Our Rogue crept
      into a flanking position while I distracted him with taunts,
      interrupting his monologue. The Cleric and I were about to unleash
      magical fury when suddenly, I was somewhere else entirely. The next
      thing I know, I hit a table in a room surrounded by cultists," Milo
      said. "They had dark robes and masks and everything; you should
      have <em class="calibre7">seen</em> them. So, one of them started casting some
      spell, it went like, '<em class="calibre7">Avada Keda—</em>'" Milo was interrupted
      as McGonagall desperately clamped a hand over Milo's mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no need to worry, Minerva. He doesn't have a wand,"
      Dumbledore said gently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Er. Continue your story, then, Mister Amastacia-Liadon,"
      said the old witch, slightly embarrassed. "But you must
      <em class="calibre7">never</em> say those words again. They are the incantation for
      the worst of the Unforgivable Curses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please call me Milo; elf names tend to be on the long side,"
      Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Elf</em> names?" McGonagall asked incredulously. "Albus,
      add that to the list of questions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, so I blinded the cultists with a <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>,
      jumped out the window, provided false targets with illusions,
      summoned a pony, and rode off as fast as I could, but one of them
      chased me on that broomstick. One casting of <em class="calibre7">Grease</em> on the
      stick and the cultist fell — but he teleported to safety somehow.
      Not before he killed my mount, though. So I started walking, and I
      think I'd just found some village or another when I passed out.
      Pretty lucky, really, all things considered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus," McGonagall said quietly. "These… cultists… he speaks
      of. They sound an awful lot like—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd noticed, Minerva. It appears they were not quite so
      disbanded as we had once believed." Dumbledore said ominously. Milo
      grinned. That sounded like a plot hook if he'd ever heard one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, young wizard, if you could tell me what school you attend
      so I can see you home safely?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre7">that</em> kind of school? Nah, never bothered," Milo
      said. "You gain experience <em class="calibre7">way</em> faster hunting dark Wizards
      and goblins and things, let me tell you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No <em class="calibre7">school</em>?!" McGonagall gasped again, this time even
      more offended than when she'd heard of his lack of wand. "That's
      criminal! Your parents should be arrested!" The professor paused,
      looking concerned. "You—you do have parents, don't you, Mister
      Ama—er, Milo?" she asked gently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Parents? Most likely. They're…" he paused. Something was wrong.
      He reached out for his memories of his parents, but came back with
      nothing. He started to panic. "I don't understand. My parents,
      they're… they're… what's happening?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you… quite alright, young man?" McGonagall asked, her voice
      full of concern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I… this has never happened before," Milo confessed. His
      backstory generally wrote itself on an as-needed basis. "Obviously
      I had parents, but I… I just, I can't remember them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I am so, so sorry." McGonagall said seriously. It broke her
      heart how many orphans came through Hogwarts, especially in the
      time after the war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva, if you would please come with me for a moment, I think
      we need to discuss this with the other heads of houses," Dumbledore
      said. "We'll be back shortly, Milo, in the mean time I'll let Poppy
      take care of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's obvious that we're dealing with a very
      <em class="calibre7">confused</em> individual," Sprout said sadly after McGonagall
      had explained the situation. "He seems to have been orphaned at a
      young age and fended for himself since then, and is quite
      delusional."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sadly, I must agree," Dumbledore said. "I think we can assume
      that very little of his story is true, although he did describe the
      Death Eaters and the Killing Curse with an alarming level of
      accuracy. I think it likely, unfortunately, that his parents were
      killed by them at a young age."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The broomstick," Flitwick said suddenly. "It's our only clue.
      We <em class="calibre7">know</em> that the Nimbus is a brand-new model of Quidditch
      broom, so he must have come across it recently. Judging by his
      vagabond nature and lack of wand, he didn't obtain it through
      legitimate channels. If we can find any of the broomsticks reported
      stolen, it might be able to discern the veracity of his story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clever as always, Filius," Dumbledore congratulated him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, what if his story is true?" McGonagall asked.
      "There could very well be active Death Eaters out there, looking
      for revenge." <em class="calibre7">And</em>, she thought quietly, <em class="calibre7">the Malfoy
      Summer Manor is at about one night's walking distance from
      Hogsmeade…</em> "Investigating the Nimbus will only draw attention
      to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it would appear we have but one option," Dumbledore said.
      "And the law is quite clear. Regardless of all else, the boy is
      clearly magical—otherwise, Hogsmeade's wards would have driven him
      off well before he made it within sight of the village. Term starts
      in only three days, and I believe this young man, both for his
      safety and for that of those around him, should be among the first
      years to be sorted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, with <em class="calibre7">respect</em>," sneered Snape, who in fact
      meant none, "we can't just offer every street urchin and vagrant
      who wanders to our door a spot in this school. We're the
      <em class="calibre7">best</em> school in magical Britain, not the <em class="calibre7">only</em>
      one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid I'll have to insist," Dumbledore said gently, but
      firmly. "Minerva, if you could take the young Mr. Amastacia-Liadon
      to Diagon Alley to get his school supplies and robes tomorrow, it
      would be much appreciated. Filius, would you please anonymously
      return the <em class="calibre7">Nimbus</em> to the Department of Magical Law
      Enforcement and quietly keep an eye on who picks it up? Pomona,
      would you be so good as to take over preparations for the sorting
      ceremony for us? As for myself, I will make inquiries at the
      Ministry of Magic, to see if any underage magic has been
      detected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And myself, headmaster?" asked Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Severus, I have a <em class="calibre7">special</em> task for you. I'm afraid
      you'll have to visit certain old… acquaintances again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand," said Snape with a sigh. He'd hoped it wouldn't
      come to this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then, I believe we all have our tasks. We'd best get to
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the one hand, Milo was not particularly enthusiastic about
      attending school. But on the <em class="calibre7">other</em> hand, it was pretty
      clear that this was what the plot demanded of him. Besides, this
      was his best shot at getting at those cultists, and everything
      about them said "we have loads and loads of Magic Items and gold."
      And it wasn't like he had anything else to do. Besides, he was only
      300 XP away from a new level, and with it, one step closer to the
      untold arcane power of 3rd-level spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I might be interested in attending your school,
      Deputy Headmistress," Milo said respectfully. Never hurts to
      flatter powerful NPCs on occasion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent. We only have three days until term starts, so
      tomorrow we'll go out and purchase you your school supplies,"
      McGonagall said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, er. I haven't got any money, <em class="calibre7">per se</em>." Milo had
      spent the last of his loot buying that Belt of Hidden Pouches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None at all? Well, Hogwarts does have a small fund for…
      unfortunate… students such as yourself," McGonagall said
      thoughtfully, "but I'm afraid you'll likely have to make do with
      second- or third-hand materials."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No complaints here. So what are we talking, like, quills and
      parchment and things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That, of course, and also, oh where did I put that list…? Here
      we are. Wand, robes, pointed hat, dragonhide gloves," Milo choked
      slightly in surprise at that, "telescope, a cauldron, scales, and
      various text and spellbooks, wand..." McGonagall frowned as she
      read through the list. "It seems wand was listed twice. I'll be
      having a word with someone about that, I should think. It also says
      that you can have an owl, cat, or toad, though we generally make
      allowances for rats as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A wand? What kind? Probably no higher than first level, but
      <em class="calibre7">seriously,</em> that's on your mandatory list? And, wait…
      <em class="calibre7">spellbooks</em>?" Milo asked incredulously. "You're going to
      <em class="calibre7">buy me spellbooks</em>?" Milo felt faint. There had to be some
      kind of catch. Telescopes clocked in at 1,000 gp <em class="calibre7">alone</em>,
      and if they had the capability to slaughter enough <em class="calibre7">dragons</em>
      to make gloves for the entire student body, the faculty here were
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> to be trifled with. This little shopping list was
      <em class="calibre7">way</em> beyond the average Wealth By Level of a 1st-Level
      Wizard, and Milo's rapid addition placed it at almost half of his
      current total value.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I—I think I need to sit down for a moment," Milo said. "I
      appear to have been Dazed—or possibly even Stunned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well, I suppose it can be a bit overwhelming at first,"
      McGonagall frowned at him. She couldn't imagine how someone could
      be so poor that a second-hand old textbook seemed extravagant. "In
      the meantime, I suppose, just stay here and focus on feeling
      better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I was going to ask about that. Don't you have any Clerics
      on staff?" Milo asked. His injuries weren't anything that a
      <em class="calibre7">Cure Light Wounds</em> wouldn't solve; it really was faster
      than bed rest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, er, no. Not many in the magical world feel a, um, religious
      calling of that nature." McGonagall said carefully. Most wizards
      and witches felt a little awkward around matters of religion, what
      with all the <em class="calibre7">suffer-not-the-witch-to-live</em>'s and
      inquisitions and all that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm, that would explain that, then." Wizards heal injuries in a
      manner resembling how pigs fly—they generally tried to keep such a
      situation from occurring in the first place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the mean time, I suggest you try to relax as much as
      possible, and I will be here early tomorrow morning to take you to
      London," McGonagall said before leaving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sat back, trying to contain his excitement for tomorrow.
      <em class="calibre7">This time in two days</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">I'm going to be
      absolutely rolling in new spells and items</em>… he was practically
      salivating at the thought. In fact, he realized, he <em class="calibre7">was</em>
      salivating at the thought.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
