<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 13: Roleplaying, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Roleplaying</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: The reviews I got this week really got to me.
      I'd hoped, but I'd never really <em class="calibre7">believed</em> that something I
      wrote would be read around the world (I just found out from
      Fanfiction that some of you live in places as far away from me as
      Hong Kong, Jamaica, and South Africa) and actually
      <em class="calibre7">enjoyed</em>. Reading your thoughts on what Milo's plan for
      escape would be was some of the most fun I've had, <em class="calibre7">ever</em>.
      <em class="calibre7">Coming up</em> with his actual plan required me and a team of
      three highly trained, well-equipped, professional, fully qualified
      geeks to stay up until the birds outside started singing. The
      result is one that I'm particularly proud of, and tops most of my
      zany D&amp;D schemes by a wide margin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyways. I'd just like to give a <em class="calibre7">huge</em> thank you to you
      folks around the world for making a dream of mine come true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">P.S. Could someone with a recent print (i.e., bought it up to a
      few years ago but not when it was new) of Harry Potter and the
      Goblet of Fire PM me? It's important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">P.P.S. From here on out, a double-length bar-o-thingy denotes
      the end of the author's notes and the start of the story.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre7">nerve</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who does he think he is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's in <em class="calibre7">no</em> position to make demands!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The reaction to Milo's request for a larger cauldron was...
      varied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's clearly a ploy," Snape sneered. "He hopes to dilute the
      potion so that it won't explode in his face when he fails. It won't
      work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">If</em> he fails, Severus," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "Scale up the other ingredients
      proportionally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a meaningful silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me, <em class="calibre7">boy</em>," Snape said finally. "Do you have a
      death wish? Do you have <em class="calibre7">any</em> idea how large an explo—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come now," Fudge interrupted. "We're in the presence of
      <em class="calibre7">six</em> of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement's finest,
      not to <em class="calibre7">mention</em> the Supreme Mugwump himself. I
      <em class="calibre7">think</em> we have more than enough magical muscle between us
      to keep anyone from being harmed. Let's just get him a bigger
      cauldron and be <em class="calibre7">done</em> with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do remember to whom it is that you are speaking, Severus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you command," Snape said between clenched teeth. "<em class="calibre7">Accio
      Cauldron Size Twelve.</em>" A large, heavy cauldron ponderously
      hovered from a store room, knocking over a variety of
      expensive-looking magical doodads in the process. It
      (<em class="calibre7">slowly</em>) came to a stop near the centre of the room. Milo
      gave it a quick look. <em class="calibre7">Only two-and-a-half feet in
      diameter</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">Needs to be larger</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "Bigger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is the largest potions cauldron I keep in the dungeon,"
      Snape protested angrily. "Unless you plan on cooking a Troll—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course!" Dumbledore said. "We can use one of the cooking
      pots from the kitchens. The House Elves make enough oatmeal for
      hundreds of students on Tuesday mornings in just one pot, except
      for this <em class="calibre7">one</em> occasion in 1941 when there was a shortage of
      rolled oats and—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall coughed pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and where was I? Oh yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Snape could say something biting and sarcastic,
      Dumbledore clapped his hands twice. A small... <em class="calibre7">creature</em>...
      appeared in front of him with a loud crack. It was, if you rounded
      up, entirely composed of large, floppy ear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What the Hells?</em> Milo wondered. <em class="calibre7">Is that... some sort
      of goblinoid?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Floppy, would you be so good as to fetch the kitchen's largest
      cooking pot?" Dumbledore asked kindly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, master," Floppy responded in a high, squeaky voice. "Right
      away, master." With another crack, Floppy was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was only one explanation for the creature that Milo could
      think of, impossible as it seemed. He'd heard that the kitchens
      were staffed by Elves, which was insane, but this world seemed to
      turn everything he knew on its head. So... so that little
      goblin-like creature he saw...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo broke into a cold sweat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...<em class="calibre7">must be a slave of the elves.</em> Of all of the hundreds
      of subspecies of elf, only <em class="calibre7">one</em> kept slaves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hogwarts has dark elves in the kitchen</em>, he thought with
      growing horror. <em class="calibre7">And they have</em> teleporting goblins <em class="calibre7">in
      their employ</em>. <em class="calibre7">No</em> wonder <em class="calibre7">there was poison in that
      tart, there's enough Chaotic and Evil in the kitchen for it to
      qualify as a suburb of the Abyss</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few seconds, there were six simultaneous pops. A
      half-dozen of the goblinoid slaves appeared carrying a
      <em class="calibre7">mammoth</em> pot over their heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The goblins are apparently super-strong</em>, Milo noted
      with steadily rising panic. <em class="calibre7">And can ignore Hogwarts'
      anti-teleportation Abjurations</em>. <em class="calibre7">Oh,</em> gods.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Milo said, tearing his eyes away from the humanoids.
      "That'll do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Snape began gathering buckets of glycerol and Flobberworm
      mucous from his storeroom (Milo wondered briefly how he managed to
      fit everything in there, before realizing the closet was probably
      of Holding), Milo mentally ran over his plan. <em class="calibre7">I can prevent the
      liquids from mixing using</em> Tenser's Floating Disk, he thought.
      <em class="calibre7">Tenser's Floating Disk</em> was a moderately useful spell that
      created an invisible shallow bowl that hovers three feet off the
      ground. He could dump the mucous into the water, cast the spell
      above the liquid, then pour in the glycerol. <em class="calibre7">The tricky thing
      is that it's three feet wide—but this cauldron is more than
      sufficient. Then it's a simple matter of using</em>
      Prestidigitation <em class="calibre7">to create bubbles.</em> Milo had never
      actually tried it, but he was pretty sure that creating a few
      bubbles in a pot fell within <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation's</em> ability to
      exert about a pound of force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">There</em>," Snape said in growing frustration. "You have,
      here, <em class="calibre7">precisely</em> the correct amount of mucous and
      glycerol." He gestured to a pair of buckets. "Can we get this over
      with, now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said the Headmaster was to check them," Milo reminded
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore thoroughly, and, to the Minister for Magic's
      irritation, <em class="calibre7">slowly</em> examined the contents of both
      buckets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everything seems to be in order," Dumbledore said. "Would
      anyone else like to take a look?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione coughed awkwardly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would, Headmaster—if it's all right, of course," she said.
      Milo blinked. Was this <em class="calibre7">Hermione</em> doubting her professors?
      What was the world coming to?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, still wrapped in bandages, painfully limped over to
      the cooking pot in the centre of the room. She examined it until
      she saw, engraved near the bottom in tiny letters, "CAST IRON 112
      GALLONS." Then she hobbled over to the side of the room and picked
      up a set of heavy brass scales. Then, with the Minister for Magic,
      two of her teachers, her headmaster, four senior Ministry
      officials, and six Aurors watching her intently, she limped over to
      Snape's desk. Carefully avoiding eye contact with the Potions
      Master, she placed the heavy measuring scale on the desk with a
      thud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's right arm was in a splint, and Milo could tell that
      she quickly realized there was no way she'd be able to lift either
      of the two buckets. She drew her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Six Aurors drew wands simultaneously and aimed steadily at her.
      Hermione looked like she would die in a panic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peace," Dumbledore said. "She was just, I presume, about to
      perform a simple Hovering Charm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Featherweight Charm, actually," Hermione said matter-of-factly,
      although she still looked nervous. "And <em class="calibre7">then</em> a Hovering
      Charm. You see, the two charms combined are over one-fifth more
      efficient than a single, more powerful—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody asked for a lecture, Miss Granger," Snape snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five points for Gryffindor," McGonagall said simultaneously.
      Upon hearing Snape's remark, she added, "That's really rather
      clever, Miss Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Aurors put away their wands, looking somewhat sheepish at
      having drawn on a twelve year-old girl. The two Heads of Houses
      glared at each other as. Hermione carefully weighed both buckets
      (dispelling the Featherweight Charm in the process, of course).
      Then she nodded at Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," he muttered as she walked past him to her earlier
      position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any time," she said simply. She looked a bit stunned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, before you begin," said Bode, "you should probably be
      informed that a number of anti-cheating enchantments have been
      placed in this classroom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Explain," he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously I can't go into too much detail, but suffice to say
      that we'll be well aware of any magical illusions that you create,
      or if you try to add anything to the potion without our
      knowledge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. <em class="calibre7">This shouldn't cause any problems</em>, he
      thought. Invisibility <em class="calibre7">is the only Illusion I'll be casting, and
      it isn't really an Illusion that I</em> create<em class="calibre7">, exactly. That
      sounds like more of a Figment or Glamer.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hopefully.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well, I'd best begin. No time like the present.</em> Pushing
      his fear and nervousness to the side, Milo tried to emulate the
      tone of a performing Bard he once heard back in Myra
      (cityoflight!cityof<em class="calibre7">magic</em>!).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right. Professors, Minister, Officials, Government Goons,
      just sit back; you're about to see <em class="calibre7">magic</em> done," Milo
      announced confidently, rolling up his sleeves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does he think he is, a stage magician?" Fudge murmured
      quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This reminds me of a time I was in a tavern back in my world,"
      Milo said as he unceremoniously dumped the bucket of thick, slimy
      Flobberworm mucous into the cauldron. "It was a nice little place,
      as far as roadside taverns go. Their soup was <em class="calibre7">terrible</em>. It
      went by the name of <em class="calibre7">Tenser's Floating Disko</em>," he said,
      casting the spell. Fortunately enough, the story was true. A
      retired Wizard built the entire establishment hovering two feet off
      the ground using a copious number of Immovable Rods; <em class="calibre7">The
      Disko</em> was famed far and wide for its resilience to
      earthquakes, its <em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em>, and its terrible
      soup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't he only eleven?" Fudge asked in astonishment. "What
      tavern would—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that, of course, was in another world," Milo said, pouring
      the glycerol into the cauldron. Snape looked as if he were about to
      duck beneath his desk for cover. Unbeknownst to the audience, the
      thick liquid hit, instead of the water in the cauldron, Milo's
      magical disk. "A world which now seems to exist only in the hazy
      reaches of my memory, and every day seems to be slipping deeper
      into the murky depths of <em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em>." In the blink of an
      eye, the glycerol (which, if anyone had looked, would have appeared
      to be floating in the air inside the darkness of the cauldron)
      vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grabbed his ladle and dipped it into the cauldron in the
      area between the force disk and the edge. The pot was so huge that,
      in order to stir it, he'd have to actually walk around the
      perimeter of the cast iron monstrosity. When he was about
      three-quarters of the way around, he began to speak again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And this, as you will soon see, was no mere sleight of hand,
      legerdemain, or," he completed the circuit,
      "<em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pot bubbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo almost couldn't believe that he might actually be getting
      away with it. He'd made the damned pot bubble, nothing had
      exploded, and Lucius's plot was foiled. He felt lightheaded. He
      wanted to go back to the Gryffindor Common Room and celebr—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Curious," Dumbledore said, raising his half-moon
      spectacles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape smiled triumphantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In this manner I will, of course, defer to the Potions Master,"
      Dumbledore said, "but... tell me, Severus, does this potion
      <em class="calibre7">usually</em> bubble?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo froze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No doubt, it's bubbling because of how <em class="calibre7">vigorously</em>
      young Milo wanted his potion to succeed," Snape suggested with
      amusement. Milo looked around the room in a panic as Snape moved
      excitedly towards the cauldron to investigate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It's not supposed to bubble?</em> He'd miscalculated Snape.
      The devious Potions Master had <em class="calibre7">anticipated</em> Milo's ability
      to fake the effects of the potion and hadn't told him truthfully
      what they should, in fact, be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked pleadingly at Dumbledore, and then at McGonagall,
      but neither offered him any help. He was sure to be ousted as a
      fake wizard and expelled from Hogwarts, falling right into Lucius's
      (presumably) evil plot (whatever it happened to be). <em class="calibre7">Tap. Tap.
      Tap.</em> Snape's polished leather loafers made loud, echoing
      sounds as the greasy Potions Master approached. In blind
      desperation, Milo looked into the faces of the Minister, his
      cronies, and even the mooks. <em class="calibre7">I need help</em>, he thought
      frantically. <em class="calibre7">I need someone who knows what—oh, right.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Catching Hermione's eye, she mouthed <em class="calibre7">it turns purple</em>.
      Milo had heard that, in the distant past, only Rogues were able to
      read lips. He was blissfully happy that this was no longer the
      case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em> (which, in Milo's firm
      opinion, was the best spell ever invented) could last up to an
      hour—<em class="calibre7">and</em> it could recolour liquids. The spell wasn't an
      Illusion (it <em class="calibre7">actually</em> changed the object's colour), so it
      (hopefully) wouldn't trigger their wards. By the time Snape got to
      the cauldron, the liquid inside was a pale shade of violet. Milo
      could <em class="calibre7">feel</em> his heart pounding against his chest as he
      waited for the anti-cheating alarms to sound. He nearly fainted
      with relief when nothing happened, although the "potion" still had
      to pass one more step... Milo just hoped he'd got the shade of
      purple right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape peered inside suspiciously, and then did something Milo
      hadn't anticipated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Milo's horror, Snape picked up the ladle. As he moved to dip
      it into the pot (presumably to investigate the potion), Milo ran
      through his options. <em class="calibre7">Tenser's Floating Disk</em> was
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> a dismissible spell; at Milo's level, it would be
      blocking the majority of the cauldron's opening for another five
      hours. Snape was sure to discover the invisible force disk, and
      Milo would be expelled. Then (presumably) killed horribly by Death
      Eaters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, <em class="calibre7">what</em> was that Hermione?" Milo asked loudly,
      improvising wildly. "You require help tying your shoes because your
      arm was grievously injured while Snape was supposed to be
      protecting you from a Troll? Why, of <em class="calibre7">course</em> I can help
      you!" Technically, no lies. Milo bolted towards Hermione as fast as
      he could run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo collapsed at Hermione's feet and started fumbling with her
      laces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What on Earth are you—</em>" she asked, surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Tenser's Floating Disk</em> disappears if you move out of
      the spell's range," Milo explained quietly. "I need to get another
      ten feet away from the cauldron before Snape realizes what's going
      on." Hermione's back was to the door; ten feet would put Milo well
      into the hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your rat," Hermione whispered. "Ask him to run out, and chase
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good plan. Mordy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't need to tell me twice, boss," Milo's familiar squeaked.
      Mordy leapt out of Milo's belt and made a mad dash for the
      exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape dipped the ladle into the cauldron, and Milo heard a quiet
      <em class="calibre7">thud</em> as the steel instrument hit his force bowl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What—</em>" he began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mordenkainen!" Milo shouted, and pursued. Shortly after he
      reached the exit, he heard a muffled splash from the cauldron as
      the <em class="calibre7">Tenser's Floating Disk</em> winked out of existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here, now!" Fudge said. "We can't just have him
      <em class="calibre7">leave</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone duck for cover!" someone shouted. Evidentially, they
      had taken Milo's flight to mean that the potion was about to
      explode.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Accio Milo</em>," one of the Aurors muttered, and Milo felt
      a strange tug in the region of his stomach. The next thing he knew,
      he was being pulled to the centre of the room by invisible hands.
      It was a <em class="calibre7">weird</em> feeling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll have to look for your rat later, Milo," Bode said in his
      dry monotone. "We can't allow you to leave until the inquiries are
      closed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, of course," Milo said. <em class="calibre7">Careful not to lie</em>, he
      reminded himself. "I'm only eleven; eleven year olds are
      notoriously flighty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't need to tell <em class="calibre7">me</em> twice," McGonagall muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape, who had evidently been distracted by Milo's unexpected
      flight, began to test the potion again. As soon as his ladle
      entered the cauldron, Milo had a burst of mad inspiration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I've more than proved that I'm a legitimate <em class="calibre7">Mage,
      Hand</em> me that quill, Headmaster, would you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, what was that?" Fudge asked. Milo concentrated on the
      <em class="calibre7">Mage Hand</em> spell (a handy (sorry), weak telekinesis), and,
      targeting the <em class="calibre7">water</em> in the cauldron (<em class="calibre7">Mage Hand</em>
      can't target held objects, such as Snape's ladle) Milo created a
      small current which forced the ladle to move in a <em class="calibre7">very
      tiny</em> counterclockwise circle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape frowned. He wasn't sure if it was a trick of his eye, but
      he could have <em class="calibre7">sworn</em> that the purple potion became slightly
      darker as he stared at it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just asking the Headmaster to hand me the quill on his
      desk," Milo said. "But on second thought, I realize, I don't need
      it. How's the potion check out, Professor Snape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think your student might be a bit <em class="calibre7">funny</em>," Fudge said
      not quite quietly enough to Dumbledore. "A tad... <em class="calibre7">off in the
      head</em>, if you catch my meaning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am <em class="calibre7">quite</em> sorry," Dumbledore said apologetically. "I
      didn't bring my fishing rod! I had no idea we were going out to
      catch meanings on this fine evening. Why, once, when I was a boy,
      my brother and I caught a meaning that weighed—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall coughed again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—but perhaps that story is best told later," Dumbledore
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fudge sighed and muttered something under his breath. Milo
      wasn't sure, but he <em class="calibre7">thought</em> he caught the words
      '<em class="calibre7">surrounded by nutters</em>' somewhere in there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape carefully extracted a small amount of the potion with his
      ladle and stared at it in astonishment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well?" the Minister pressed. "What's the verdict, Severus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape stared at the contents of the cauldron, his face livid
      with barely contained rage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You</em>." He said, turning to Milo. His voice was like a
      <em class="calibre7">Polar Ray</em> with a confirmed critical. "If I <em class="calibre7">ever</em>
      find out how you did this, <em class="calibre7">boy</em>, you'll rue the day your
      mother first laid eyes on your fath<em class="calibre7">—</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Severus</em>," Dumbledore said reproachfully. Snape reined
      himself in with obvious effort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have the... <em class="calibre7">unequaled pleasure—</em>" Snape said through
      clenched teeth, but Milo was pretty sure he meant the other thing,
      "<em class="calibre7">—</em>to say that this potion is, against all odds and
      reason... <em class="calibre7">adequate</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall looked relieved, Bode appeared somewhat disappointed
      (Milo was willing to bet Bode hoped he'd discovered some form of
      new and exotic humanoid monster in Milo), while Dumbledore (and
      <em class="calibre7">only</em> Dumbledore) started clapping. Hermione stood in the
      corner beaming at him. Best of all, he earned 800 XP. <em class="calibre7">That
      alone will cover</em> months <em class="calibre7">of item crafting</em>, Milo
      thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ruddy waste of time, this was," Fudge complained to Umbridge as
      the Ministry officials filed out. "Wonder why he insisted it be
      done so late at night—and on a weekend, too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva," Dumbledore asked politely, "would you please take
      Miss Granger back to the hospital wing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Albus," McGonagall said politely, and moved to the
      injured girl. Snape was pacing back and forth by the cauldron,
      fuming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo," Dumbledore said, "I understand that it's late, and you
      have class tomorrow, but<em class="calibre7">—</em>would you mind coming to my
      office for a brief chat?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Headmaster," Milo said politely. There were no rules
      <em class="calibre7">anywhere</em> for sleep deprivation, ergo, Milo could stay up
      as late as he wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The eccentric Headmaster led Milo through the labyrinthine
      castle, up the stairs (skipping, unconsciously, the trick step in
      the second-floor staircase) and, at last, to a random dead end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Milo said. "Your office isn't just out here in the hall,
      is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Sherbet Lemon</em>," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's... not really an answer, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, young Milo, in that, you are wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A nearby gargoyle statue slowly began to move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Holycrapgargoyle!" Milo shrieked. "<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust!</em>" He
      held out his hand, but nothing happened. <em class="calibre7">Right,</em> he
      thought, embarrassed. <em class="calibre7">I'm</em> completely <em class="calibre7">out of
      spells.</em> Until he had a chance to prepare new spells, Milo was
      basically a Commoner with a high Will save and a pet rat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The gargoyle, however, proved to be merely a statue, which rose
      as it turned, revealing a spiral staircase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sweet entrance," Milo said appreciatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No pun intended?" Dumbledore asked wryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you said <em class="calibre7">sweet</em> entrance, and the password, of
      course, is my favourite form of sweet..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared at him blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster just sighed and began climbing the formidable
      staircase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's office was <em class="calibre7">awesome</em>. There was simply no
      other word to describe it. Wondrous Items of all sorts decorated
      every flat surface that Milo could see; many of which were ticking
      at inconsistent, conflicting speeds—no doubt, Milo assumed, to
      confuse his enemies. Up on the walls were more animated portraits
      looking down at them, and, in the corner, lay the sorting hat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, sit down," Dumbledore said. "Can I get you anything?
      Cocoa? Tea?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That first one," Milo requested. "I have <em class="calibre7">no</em> idea what
      it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore waved his wand lazily, and a large mug of hot cocoa
      appeared in front of Milo. <em class="calibre7">They have a spell for</em> that?
      Milo wondered. <em class="calibre7">Just for conjuring steaming hot mugs of
      cocoa?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're probably wondering why I've invited you here,"
      Dumbledore said. <em class="calibre7">Unless, of course, it's a spell that summons
      arbitrary hot drinks.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, I was wondering what spell you used to conjure the
      drinks," Milo said, then frowned. <em class="calibre7">Wait, why on the Prime
      Material did I just say that?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A nonverbal variant of the Summoning Charm," Dumbledore
      shrugged. "Created by Helga Hufflepuff herself to summon food from
      the kitchens of Hogwarts. It only works within the grounds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I must still be under the effects of the Veritaserum,</em>
      Milo realized. Was that why Dumbledore had summoned him up here
      now?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Now</em> you're probably wondering why I've invited you
      here?" Dumbledore asked, somewhat hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I was wondering if you'd invited me here now because I'm
      still compelled to speak only the truth," Milo said.
      <em class="calibre7">Aarrrgh!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As much as I feel the world could do with a little more
      honesty, no, that's not the reason. I was travelling the past few
      days—Wizengamot business, you understand—and my sleep schedule is
      quite turned upside-down. This was the first in quite some time
      that I've had a spare moment, in fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Milo said. "Okay, I'll bite. <em class="calibre7">Now</em> I'm wondering
      why you've invited me here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wanted to know how you did it," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did what?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Faked the potion well enough to fool Snape. That's no easy
      task, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo froze. He nearly dropped his cocoa (which, by the way, was
      <em class="calibre7">delicious</em>).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, don't worry," Dumbledore said. "I'm not the Ministry.
      You're not in trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo only then realized how vulnerable he was. No spells. No
      familiar. No-one who knew where he was. No escape plan. No ability
      to lie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I used magic to keep the mucous from mixing with the glycerol,"
      Milo confessed, "then ended the spell right as Snape tested the
      potion. I then used some very weak telekinesis to cause Snape to
      accidentally stir the liquid, thus completing the final step in
      creating the potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean to say that <em class="calibre7">Snape</em> created that potion?"
      Dumbledore asked, amazed. Then he burst out laughing, and continued
      to do so until there were tears in his eyes. "I haven't laughed so
      hard in days," he admitted. "And don't worry, your secret's safe
      with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I guess it <em class="calibre7">is</em> pretty funny," Milo conceded. "And
      thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't mention it. Not since the days of Emeric the Evil were
      Headmasters involved in the business of having their students
      executed. But that wasn't the only reason I asked you here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You fought a Troll on Hallowe'en," Dumbledore said, "instead of
      doing the sensible thing and letting trained, fully-qualified adult
      witches and wizards handle it. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It came at me," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could have run for it," Dumbledore countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It had me cornered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could have jumped out the window," Dumbledore pressed. "You
      have, after all, a spell for that exact purpose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. He <em class="calibre7">could</em> have easily escaped the Troll
      with <em class="calibre7">Feather Fall</em>, now that he thought about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The thought never occurred to me," Milo answered honestly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Dumbledore asked. "For nearly anyone else in the
      world, it would be the <em class="calibre7">only</em> thought that occurred to
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not what I do," Milo said. "Running away from monsters,
      that is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's eyes twinkled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, have you ever asked yourself, <em class="calibre7">why not</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... no. No, I haven't," Milo paused. "But only because I
      haven't had to. I'm an adventurer. Fighting monsters is what I
      <em class="calibre7">do</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you're an adventurer? So you do it... for the sense of
      adventure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that's not it at all. It's... it's hard to explain." How do
      you explain to someone something that's so <em class="calibre7">obvious</em>?
      Adventurers fight monsters. That's just how it <em class="calibre7">is</em>. You'd
      have as much luck trying to explain to someone <em class="calibre7">why</em> two and
      two made four.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a smart boy. Try."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a PC. An adventurer. A hero. When there's a monster, or an
      evil necromancer, or a murderer, or whatever, it's my job to take
      him out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But in this case, in Hogwarts, there are others who could fight
      that Troll, do that job, at least as well as you could."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It... it doesn't matter. I was there. The Troll was there. It
      happened for a <em class="calibre7">reason</em>; I was <em class="calibre7">supposed</em> to fight
      that Troll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a bit young to have set so much stock in fate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not fate. Planning by a higher power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By God?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hah, no. In my experience, gods spend too much time fighting
      amongst themselves and making powerful, yet shockingly unoptimized,
      magical artifacts and holy relics to plan people's lives out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then... who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The same entity that makes sure that, eventually, a villain
      will <em class="calibre7">always</em> be defeated by a hero. That arranges for Draco
      and Harry to be the same age, at the same school. That arranges for
      the Philosopher's Stone to be hidden at that same school in their
      first year. That keeps the background world running when we're not
      looking at it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds like fate to me," Dumbledore said. "Except maybe
      for that last one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo simply shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you believe it is your <em class="calibre7">fate</em> to fight monsters?"
      Dumbledore pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I don't think I'm being clear," Milo said. "I fight
      monsters. I'm an adventurer. A hero. It's a fact of life. There's
      no <em class="calibre7">why</em> to it, it's just... how my life goes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it to protect innocent lives?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not... really. But when it happens, that's a perk, I
      suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To right great imbalances in the universe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Are there great imbalances I wasn't aware of?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to my knowledge. Is it for revenge?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I don't have anything I feel all that... <em class="calibre7">bitter</em>
      about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the thrill, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't do <em class="calibre7">anything</em> for the thrill of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For glory and respect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, without Leadership, glory's about as useful as Skill Focus
      (Craft (Basketweaving))."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you don't see yourself as a leader, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A planner, maybe, but... a leader? One who stands on a crate
      and gives inspiring speeches to a bunch of low-level Commoners and
      Warriors? No, I'll leave that to someone else. What's with all the
      questions, Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed heavily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've known witches and wizards—and more than a few Muggles, for
      that matter—who set forth to battle evil without any clear
      motivation for doing so. They... tend to fit into one of two
      categories. Either they discover the reason within themselves
      later, and go on to do great things, or, more often... they
      fall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They die? Because I'd have to disagree, Professor; Neutral
      adventurers tend to be much more pragmatic and level-headed and
      overall <em class="calibre7">far</em> less likely to die some a stupid sacrifice or
      last stand than Good ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sometimes they do," Dumbledore admitted soberly. "But more
      often, they find themselves becoming what they once fought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, they go Evil? I don't think I'm in any danger of
      <em class="calibre7">that</em>. It's just not... in character." Milo sighed. "I'm
      not... I'm not really equipped to discuss philosophy,
      Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why is that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I fight monsters," he said firmly. "I kick down doors. I
      find treasure. I gain Experience. I spend an inordinate amount of
      time in taverns. I operate best in groups of four. I solve
      mysteries. I use magic. I don't... the discussion of <em class="calibre7">why</em>
      very rarely comes up. And even then... if it did, the reason for it
      would suddenly appear in my head. Poof. Like it had always been
      there, the same as if you asked me what my parents' names were.
      It's like a part of me, the part that makes those decisions and
      created the history and the hopes and dreams... it's gone. I'm just
      the collection of stats and spells with a race and alignment. I
      don't know how to explain it; to my knowledge this has never
      happened to anyone before. It's like... like I'm a character in a
      play, and the player was left behind when I was brought here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," said Dumbledore, "it's time you started to think for
      yourself? To be more than a simple mask?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you suggesting..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're a character," Dumbledore shrugged, "I don't see any
      reason why you can't be your <em class="calibre7">own</em> player."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared at the Headmaster, completely dumbstruck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now, I believe, it is time for us both to go to bed. You
      seem to be quite recovered, but would you do me one more favour and
      spend the night in the hospital wing? You'll see why tomorrow,"
      Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Milo shrugged. He was used to sleeping in the wilderness
      and in ancient crypts, anyways. While a step-and-a-half down from
      the four-poster beds in Gryffindor tower, the hospital cots were a
      great deal more comfortable than a bedroll—not, when it came to it,
      that Milo much cared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodnight, Milo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Night, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was already halfway back to the hospital wing when he
      realized that, when Dumbledore asked him how he faked the potion,
      it meant he <em class="calibre7">actually believed</em> that Milo was a different
      sort of Wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What does he know that I don't? Or rather... what does he
      know that I know that I don't know he knows?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And why does Lucius want me expelled?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And who really killed the acromantula? And why was it
      missing a fang?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lack of injuries on the nonetheless dead spider implied one
      thing...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Death Effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Killing Curse.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
