<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 15: Quidditch, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: Quidditch</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: To my surprise, my writing is actually
      <em class="calibre7">ahead</em> of schedule and I'm already putting the finishing
      touches on chapter 16. I've found that I write faster (and better)
      when I'm under pressure, so tomorrow (Sunday the 11th), I'll be
      posting a bonus chapter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo waited for Friday to roll around with ever-increasing
      anxiety and anticipation. His time was entirely taken up with
      classes, spell research (Milo decided to start researching
      <em class="calibre7">Benign Transposition</em>, a handy 1st-level spell that swaps
      the positions of a pair of willing creatures), and magic item
      crafting. The latter was proving increasingly frustrating: one of
      the oft-forgotten requirements in creating a magic item was that,
      during the creation process the crafter or an assistant has to cast
      whichever spell the magic item most closely replicates. Normally,
      this is no problem at all—for a small charge, any item crafter
      could hire a high-level Cleric or Wizard to cast the spell for
      them. Milo, obviously not having this advantage, was severely
      limited in his choices of items to craft—and, worse, most of them
      produced effects he could already manage much less expensively by
      just casting a spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite the severe restrictions, the Milo that entered
      McGonagall's office on Tuesday was wearing a pair of sleek
      midnight-blue gloves with tiny yellow stars on the knuckles. Twice
      a day, Milo's new Arcanist's Gloves could add a significant amount
      of extra kick (+2 Caster Levels' worth of kick, to be precise) to
      his low-level spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To McGonagall's increasing frustration, Milo showed no
      noticeable improvement in his Transfiguration abilities, even under
      her expert tutelage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have <em class="calibre7">some</em> sort of learning block," McGonagall had
      explained. "We just need to figure out how to work <em class="calibre7">around</em>
      it. If you can pull off even <em class="calibre7">one</em> successful
      Transfiguration, I'm sure you will have no trouble at all with
      further ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd decided to try trial-and-error. Since Transfiguration was
      largely performed in the mind rather than with the wand, she'd
      explained, it only followed that Milo had to try <em class="calibre7">thinking</em>
      differently, and the easiest way to do this was to change
      environmental factors more-or-less at random.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She made Milo try to Transfigure outdoors, indoors, while
      balanced on one foot, while blindfolded, while hanging upside-down,
      while inhaling burning incense, with his wand in his left hand
      instead of his right, with his wand held in his feet, with his wand
      held in both hands, with her wand, with no wand at all, while under
      water, and while floating in the air—and every possible combination
      of the above.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," she said thoughtfully, "if you're blindfolded and
      slowly turning counter-clockwise while in the presence of a horned
      toad and the room is smelling of lavender—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," Milo interrupted. "I don't mean to be rude, but...
      doesn't this strike you as a bit ridiculous?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course!" McGonagall said, and for a moment Milo thought
      she'd agreed with him. "Laughter! Maybe you'll be able to
      Transfigure while <em class="calibre7">laughing</em>. Tell me, Mister
      Amastacia-Liadon" (Milo rolled his eyes. He <em class="calibre7">hated</em> being
      called by his last name) "tell me, how many centaurs does it take
      to light up a wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," he said obligingly. "How many?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None," McGonagall said with the tone of someone saying
      something clever, "for Mars is unusually bright tonight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the other Gryffindors returned from their communal
      detention, they found Milo sitting in the Common Room stitching up
      his fifth-hand robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still working on that?" Ron asked, interested. "They already
      fit better than mine do—mind, mine were Charlie's originally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at the thread Milo was using with interest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that—is that <em class="calibre7">unicorn hair</em>?" she gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, wand-grade." Milo said. "I was going to use silk, but it
      wasn't expensive enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Wasn't expensive—</em>" Ron said, his face going red. He
      paused to get control of himself with obvious effort. "You're just
      as bad as Malfoy, you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no," Milo said, aghast. "It's just that, for my magic, I
      need to use magical components that cost a certain amount. And,"
      Milo said with a grin, "when I'm done, these robes could fit
      Hagrid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">How much unicorn hair—</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic items resize to fit their wearers," Milo explained
      patiently. "<em class="calibre7">Everyone</em> knows that, Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thought we weren't going to do that anymore," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Couldn't help myself. Everyone ready for tomorrow?" Milo asked,
      setting aside his under-construction Robe of Arcane Might. It would
      take another twenty days, but when he was done, Milo would be a
      force to be reckoned with. Or not to be reckoned with, Milo could
      never remember how that saying went.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Course," Ron added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well—if you insist," Hermione said, although Milo guessed that
      her reluctance wasn't entirely genuine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent. Let's begin, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo waited until he could hear the thunder from the Quidditch
      pitch outside to begin his heist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em>," he muttered and withdrew his
      eleven-foot pole, looking appraisingly at Snape's office door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a deep breath to steady his nerves, he turned the doorknob
      with <em class="calibre7">Mage Hand</em> and gave the door a firm push with the
      wooden pole.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing exploded. Milo wiped sweat from his brow. <em class="calibre7">Really,
      this is what Rogues are for</em>, he thought sourly. Milo stepped
      cautiously through the apparently un-trapped doorway and entered
      Snape's office. He wanted to spend as little time in here as
      possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Spontaneous Search</em>," he cast. Milo located the
      Veritaserum instantly in Snape's cupboard. It was in a small
      cauldron next to one containing a thick, bubbling orange potion
      Milo wasn't familiar with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo reached into his belt and grabbed a small ceramic flask,
      filled it with the truth potion, and gave it to Mordy, who was also
      invisible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Run this over to Hermione," he whispered. "I'll be right—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo started as the office door slammed shut. He hadn't seen
      anyone enter, but there was no reason it couldn't have been someone
      invisible...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">See Invisibility</em>," he cast as quietly as he could,
      though the spell didn't turn up anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He exhaled. It must have been the wind...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...there couldn't possibly be any wind in the dungeons, could
      there?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So, maybe I should use</em> Detect Thoughts? While he
      debated spending another 2nd-level spell slot on what might be
      nothing, Milo suddenly felt himself being yanked upwards into the
      air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gah!" Milo shouted reflexively as he dangled by his ankles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Milo's horror, the air near the door seemed to run like wet
      paint towards the ground, revealing a very smug-looking Professor
      Snape, wand brandished like a sword.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately for our hero, the Disillusionment Charm only makes
      the target very, very difficult to see by changing their colour to
      resemble the background—rather like a chameleon—rather than being
      actually invisible. As such, <em class="calibre7">See Invisibility</em>—which only
      revealed <em class="calibre7">invisible</em> creatures and objects, was
      ineffective.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm still invisible,</em> Milo reminded himself. <em class="calibre7">Maybe
      this dangly spell affects a wide area and he doesn't actually know
      where I am...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem</em>," Snape muttered, but nothing seemed
      to happen. "<em class="calibre7">Accio Invisibility Cloak."</em> Milo held his
      breath. Snape frowned, staring at his wand as if it must be broken.
      With a shrug, he cast "<em class="calibre7">Accio Flour</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A heavy burlap sack flew from one of Snape's many supply
      cupboards and into Snape's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo panicked. Flour was, in addition to closed doors, an
      infamous bane of invisible characters everywhere—it was much like a
      Cleric's <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Ventus</em>," Snape said with a sneer, and the flour in his
      hand was blasted around the classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked up at himself: he was completely covered in the
      white powder, which gave away his position completely. He
      sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I—" Milo began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>," Snape cast, and with a red flash everything
      went black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell sat by himself watching the Quidditch match without
      much enthusiasm. Despite the crowd, all of the seats nearby him
      were strangely empty—likely because of the strong scent of garlic
      his turban emanated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Slytherin in possession <em class="calibre7">again</em>," Lee Thomas announced
      miserably to the audience. "Those Firebolts must be something else
      entirely." Lee sighed audibly. "Oh, and guess what? They scored.
      <em class="calibre7">Again</em>. That puts the score at 140-30 for Slytherin,
      although, might I remind you that all three of Gryffindor's
      <em class="calibre7">amazing</em> goals were made by Angelina Johnson, the lovely
      and talented—and, might I say, <em class="calibre7">beautiful—</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you may <em class="calibre7">not</em>," interrupted McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry Professor. Anyways, oh, Slytherin's got the Quaffle
      <em class="calibre7">again</em>..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Quirrell's great surprise, Milo came and sat down next to
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sh-sh-shouldnt you b-b-be with your friends?" Quirrell
      stammered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo simply shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I suppose you c-c-came to t-t-talk about v-v-v-vampires
      again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared up at him and frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," he said. "Remind me again where we left off?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell eyed his student suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You w-w-were t-t-telling me how you b-b-believed that
      H-H-He-Who-M-M-Must-N-N-Not-B-B-B-Be-N-N-N-Named" (Quirrell
      resolved to say "Y-Y-You-Kn-Kn-Know-Who" from there on out, if only
      to save time) "had s-s-servants r-r-rounding up v-v-vampires."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared at him with an unusual expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did I, now?" he said softly. "And, have you thought at all
      about it? What do <em class="calibre7">you</em> think... Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell paused. What <em class="calibre7">did</em> he think? The truth of what
      he believed was something he tried not to think about, lest his
      master discover how odd he thought it that becoming a vampire
      hadn't been his first plan...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The D-D-Dark L-L-Lord is widely known to b-b-believe strongly
      in b-b-blood purity," Quirrell explained. "I d-d-don't b-b-believe
      he would b-be w-w-willing to b-b-become a v-vampire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo choked somewhat, but recovered quickly. <em class="calibre7">Something is
      not right here</em>, Quirrell thought. <em class="calibre7">I have to press him for
      information... can he really bring back the dead?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-m-more importantly," Quirrell stammered, "what y-y-you said
      earlier—is it t-true?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo hesitated for a fraction of a second before speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—h-how?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the background, ignored by both of them, Slytherin scored
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the same way that all wonders are achieved," he said. "I
      think you know how."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-no, I r-r-really don't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked vaguely disappointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's Snape?" Milo asked suddenly. "I wonder what he might be
      up to while the students are all here, watching the game?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell himself had just been wondering the selfsame
      question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-you think h-h-he's trying to g-g-get the Stone again?"
      Quirrell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe. What are we going to do about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Quirrell's surprise, a small rat climbed up his leg without
      warning. Quirrell reached for his wand to hex it, but noticed the
      rat was holding a tiny roll of parchment between its teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfurling it, Quirrell read:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Professor Quirrel,<br class="calibre4"/>
      Snape has me locked in his office. He hexed me and fled, I'm almost
      completely immobilized. You're the only professor who knows what
      he's up to. Help!<br class="calibre4"/></em>—<em class="calibre7">Milo</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The writing was messy and hasty, and the ink blotches ran in the
      wrong direction, almost as if it had been written upside-down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Quirrell smiled darkly. "I don't think you'll be needing
      to worry about Severus Snape for much longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without another word, Quirrell stood up and strode out of the
      stands, his purple robes trailing behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh-oh OH!" Lee shouted, "POTTER'S SEEN THE SNITCH! HE'S GOING
      AFTER IT AND—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dozens of students nearby saw it happen. His face mottled with
      rage and frustration, Milo, to the horror of all watching, drew his
      wand and, pointing it at Harry Potter, clearly cast the Hurling
      Hex. Ignoring the shocked looks of horror on the bystanders' faces,
      Milo left the stadium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was shocked to find that his beloved Nimbus was, suddenly,
      actively attempting to throw him off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—what's going on?" Lee asked in alarm. "Potter seems to be
      having some difficulty with his broomstick. We were <em class="calibre7">so
      close!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the signal, boys!" Flint, the Slytherin captain, shouted
      to his players.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pucey, a Slytherin Chaser, abruptly screamed and went careening
      off into the stands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Nimbus gave another lurch, and Harry slipped off of it. For
      a moment he felt like this was the end, but he miraculously managed
      to catch hold of the shaft with his left hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry risked a glance at the rest of the match. The Slytherin
      team was in absolute disarray, flying chaotically and apparently at
      random. A second Chaser and a Beater joined Pucey on the ground as
      they abandoned their apparently uncontrollable broomsticks. Out of
      the corner of his eye, Harry saw a tiny flicker of gold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No...</em> he thought. <em class="calibre7">Could it be?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi, <em class="calibre7">Malfoy</em>," Ron said with a sneer. "Think fast!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before he finished speaking, Ron chucked a Veritaserum-laced
      water balloon at Malfoy's face. That had been Hermione's idea: if
      all it took was a drop of the potion, then surely he'd swallow at
      <em class="calibre7">least</em> that much by accident, right? Not to mention how
      much got into his eyes. <em class="calibre7">That rat always delivers</em>, Ron
      thought to himself. <em class="calibre7">Unlike Scabbers</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agh—<em class="calibre7">what</em>—WEASLEY!" Malfoy spluttered, water pouring
      all down his front. The crowd of students around him were too
      focussed on the game to pay much attention to yet <em class="calibre7">another</em>
      Malfoy vs. Weasley row.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Malfoy, what are you up to?" Ron asked casually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trying to decide what to hex you with!" Malfoy said, then
      frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant, what's your evil plan?" Ron clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's none of your business that I'm trying to get the Slytherin
      team to stop pretending their fake Firebolts, which are really
      Nimbus Two Thousands in disguise, are going haywire because its
      <em class="calibre7">only</em> <em class="calibre7">Potter</em> that's been hexed and they're going
      to get flattened!" Malfoy clutched his hands over his mouth, as if
      to stop it from speaking. He glanced around frantically—where were
      Crabbe and Goyle?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why are the Slytherins riding fake Firebolts?" Ron asked,
      intrigued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was jostled back to his senses as his Nimbus gave another
      kick and his hand slipped about two feet down the shaft towards the
      end. In addition to rocking wildly back and forth, the Nimbus was
      still flying forwards at the speed it had been when Harry had last
      had control over it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Snitch, if that's what it was, was on the other side of the
      pitch. Harry swung his legs sideways, angling the broomstick, still
      bucking chaotically, around in a wide arc.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could see the snitch, buzzing above the stands. Nobody else
      seemed to notice it, they were too fixated on the havoc that
      Harry's and the Slytherin's broomsticks were wreaking. Harry was
      just a few yards away from his target when the broomstick gave a
      particularly powerful kick and he lost his grip entirely—literally
      and figuratively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH!" he screamed, flying through the air
      in a high arc towards where the Gryffindors were sitting. His
      Nimbus, meanwhile, continued flying over the audience and into the
      distance like a speeding bullet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A red-and-gold sea began to part in front of him as Gryffindors
      fled. Harry saw a tiny flicker of silver ahead of him and
      desperately reached forwards. It was just over a foot away... now
      just inches...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's gloved hand clasped around something round and heavy
      when everything went dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The last thing he remembered was Neville's horrified face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door to Snape's office re-opened and Mordy, now visible,
      scurried through. Milo was still hanging upside-down, which was
      making him dizzy and likely gave him all kinds of circumstance
      penalties.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo glanced up from his furry friend and saw Quirrell's
      trademark purple robes and turban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Milo said. "Did you get my note?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-i-indeed," he stammered. "<em class="calibre7">Liberacorpus</em>," he
      muttered, and Milo slammed into the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was embarrassing," Milo said. "Writing with <em class="calibre7">Mage
      Hand</em> is a really weird experience, I'm surprised you could
      even <em class="calibre7">read</em> that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show m-m-me your w-wand," Quirrell commanded. Milo stared at
      him blankly for a moment before remembering he even had one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, this old thing? Sure, it's all yours." Milo pulled his
      chestnut wand from his pocket and tossed it to the professor.
      Quirrell caught it with surprisingly quick reflexes, and examined
      it closely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-as your Defence Professor," Quirrell said absently, "I
      w-w-would advise against s-s-surrendering your w-wand in the
      f-future." Milo snorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What am I going to do, poke you with it?" he asked with a
      laugh, standing up from the floor. At some point while he was
      stunned, Snape had cleaned all traces of flour from the office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Priori Incantato</em>," Quirrell said under his breath. If
      he was surprised when nothing happened, it didn't register on his
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently satisfied, Quirrell handed Milo back his stick.
      <em class="calibre7">Weird,</em> Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">Wonder what that was all
      about?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm," Milo said. "I don't suppose we can leave now? Before he
      comes back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell gave Milo a quick appraising look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-have you ever h-heard of Polyjuice P-Potion?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Milo said. "Maybe? It was in something I'd read in the
      Library." He frowned, and, for once, succeeded on a skill check.
      "It lets you disguise yourself as someone else, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"C-correct," Quirrell said. "W-would it s-surprise you that
      s-someone is w-walking around right now l-looking like y-you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that can't be good," said Milo, somewhat irritated that
      they weren't leaving yet. "I wonder what Snape's up to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-he tried to f-find out how I was d-d-defending the Stone,"
      Quirrell said. "After that, I d-don't know. W-walk with me,"
      Quirrell commanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged and followed. Mordy, whose little rat legs
      couldn't keep up, sat on his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I n-notice your m-mind jumped straight to the P-Potions
      Master," Quirrell said. "W-why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's working for Lucius Malfoy," said Milo. "Who was a Death
      Eater, and therefore working for He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named." As Milo
      filled Quirrell in on his theory about Draco, Snape, and Lucius,
      they approached Quirrell's office. The simple wooden door opened
      with a wave of Quirrell's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-how do you know that L-Lucius is still loyal to the D-Dark
      L-Lord?" Quirrell asked. "Hasn't h-he told the w-w-world that he
      was '<em class="calibre7">b-bewitched</em>,'" Quirrell said the last with a sneer,
      sitting down behind his desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, for one, that's obviously a lie. Everything about the
      Malfoys has <em class="calibre7">evil</em> written all over it. But also, when I was
      summoned here, I woke up in the Malfoy manor surrounded by dark
      wizards in masks that sound an awful lot like the old Death Eater
      getups."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-so," Quirrell mused softly. "They're still active, even
      w-without their m-master..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo added as an afterthought. "While I'm here, want me to
      protect your office against vampires?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what?" Quirrell asked. He seemed totally thrown by the
      question. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To keep Vampiremort from murdering you in your sleep when he
      fails to get the Stone," Milo said. It took effort not to add
      '<em class="calibre7">duh.</em>'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh-what exactly c-can you do against v-v-vampires? Y-you're
      only eleven," Quirrell said, taking a sip from a glass of water
      that he created with a wave of his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Milo countered. "I might be twelve, now—I don't know when
      my birthday is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Q-quite besides the p-point," Quirrell said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's easy, really," Milo said. "I just carve a few holy symbols
      onto the doors, windows, vents, and, ideally, every brick of the
      wall. You've already got the garlic covered—I don't suppose you can
      get Holy Water in this universe? Eh, nevermind, it's suboptimal
      anyways. 'Course, the vamp can just Dominate you with a look—you
      guys have anything like <em class="calibre7">Protection from Evil</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what is this 'Protection F-From E-E-Evil?'" Quirrell
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Handy little spell. Makes it hard for Evil creatures to touch
      you—they can't at all if they're summoned—and makes you totally
      immune from all forms of mental control, whether the originator is
      Evil or not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell dropped his glass, which shattered on the hard stone
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Permanently?" Quirrell asked, his expression carefully
      neutral.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, just for a few minutes. Want me to <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitate</em>
      that?" he asked, pointing at the shards of glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell shook his head, carefully waved his wand, and the glass
      shards were gone. He looked and moved as if every part of him were
      focussing on the simple cleaning spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," Quirrell said slowly and deliberately, "that it would
      be best, if we are to work together, if you explain to me just how
      your magic works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's simple enough. There are ten levels of spells, from 0th to
      9th. There are thousands of spells out there that wizards have
      invented (and a few dozen by Sorcerers), but I can only cast ones
      that I've written into my spellbook. Every morning, I can prepare a
      fixed list of spells from my book, and I can cast those—and
      <em class="calibre7">only</em> those—at any point that I want. How many spells, and
      of what level, is determined by my Wizard level—not to be confused
      with spell level. I'm a level five Wizard," Milo said proudly, "so
      I can cast up to 3rd-level spells. At every second Wizard level, I
      can cast a higher level of spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you can increase in level? How?" Again, Quirrell seemed to
      be spending a large amount of effort concentrating on his words.
      <em class="calibre7">Maybe it's a trick to avoid stuttering?</em> Milo thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are a few ways, but the main one is combat. Defeating
      monsters and such gives me Experience Points, when I have enough of
      those I go up a level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said you could cast up to 3rd-level spells. Could you give
      me an example?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure... <em class="calibre7">Summon Hippogriff.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo decided, in hindsight, that summoning the largest possible
      creature that he could manage into Quirrell's compact little office
      may not have been the best idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hippogriff, a massive, aggressive Magical Beast that looked
      like the front of a giant eagle on the body of a horse, let out a
      roar that knocked the stunned Quirrell out of his chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," he said. "Sorry about that." With a deliberately casual
      wave of his hand, Milo dismissed the voracious omnivore before it
      developed a taste for human flesh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you gain power <em class="calibre7">directly</em> by being involved in
      combat? By defeating your foes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does the strength of the foe matter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah. The harder the challenge, the more XP I get—assuming,
      of course, that I survive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, about the vampires and <em class="calibre7">Protection from Evil</em>—" Milo
      began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is of no matter. I already told you that I don't..."
      Quirrell paused. "I mean, as I was telling your doppelganger, I
      don't believe the Dark Lord will become a vampire; he has always
      believed strongly in blood purity" he said, smoothly changing the
      topic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's why the villains always lose," Milo said. "Blinded by
      their own prejudices and killing their own minions. If <em class="calibre7">I</em>
      had minions," Milo said with a slightly dreamy expression, "I'd
      treat them <em class="calibre7">right</em>. Well, I mean, I'd work them like slaves,
      I wouldn't pay them, and I'd feed them only enough to keep them
      from starving to death—it's just <em class="calibre7">efficient</em>—but
      <em class="calibre7">aside</em> from that, I'd treat them right. Oh, and if I can
      find some way to keep them working without needing sleep, I'd use
      that, of course, but <em class="calibre7">honestly</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any theories," Quirrell said carefully, cutting off
      Milo's rambling speech, "as to why Lucius brought you here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd just sort of assumed it was an accident," he said. "I mean,
      whatever they were doing, it didn't look like they expected an
      eleven year-old to appear on their dining room table in the middle
      of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet, you yourself admitted that you could, one day, have
      the power to bring back their lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't follow," Milo confessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can bring back the dead," Quirrell said. "That makes you,
      Milo, a prize greater than any Philosopher's Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Milo could respond, there was a brisk rap on the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"E-enter," Quirrell said, looking frustrated, his concentration
      evidently broken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened to reveal a very, <em class="calibre7">very</em> angry looking
      Professor McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You</em>," she said, pointing at Milo. "Come with me." Her
      tone brooked no dissent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," said Fred as Harry was carried out of the stands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just once, we're going to be able to throw a party on a
      Friday—" said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and the star of the show won't be in the hospital wing—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and on that day, the house-elves will overthrow their masters,
      and become lords of the universe."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
