<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 20: The Mirror of Erised, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20: The Mirror of Erised</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Sorry for the short chapter this week (a mere 7
      pages instead of the usual 10). I'm out of town with the family, so
      next week's chapter will either be short as well or delayed a few
      days (Monday most likely, Tuesday at the <em class="calibre7">very</em> latest).
      Also, as a result, this chapter hasn't been edited for grammar and
      spelling as thoroughly as they usually are, but I'll come back and
      clean it up later. Hopefully it's not too bad. Sorry about all
      that! Hopefully all the bonus chapters last week and the week
      before make up for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyways, on with the story!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">EDIT: Most of the typoes and things seem to have been caught
      now. Thanks to everyone who helped point them out!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I know people always say you look just like your dad, but
      with your mum's eyes —" Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that's not what I meant. I <em class="calibre7">actually</em> saw my parents
      in this mirror. And their parents, and their brothers and sisters,
      and a whole <em class="calibre7">family</em>." Harry told them how, the night
      before, he'd gone exploring under his Cloak of Invisibility and
      discovered the magical mirror in an unused classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," said Ron, clearly impressed. "That must be some
      mirror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show me," said Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" said Hannah. "You can't just go gallivanting off! You're
      supposed to have <em class="calibre7">complete bed rest</em>, remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sound just like Hermione," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone has to," said Hannah defensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo cursed. She was actually right — if he got out of bed, he'd
      have to come back and stay a whole 'nother day to get back to full
      hit points.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I'll have to chance it," Milo said. With luck
      (something he very rarely seemed to have) he wouldn't be needing
      all of his hit points for at least another day or so. Harry's
      mirror, however, might not be there tomorrow at all, and frankly,
      it seemed fairly plot-relevant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's go find it," Milo said, ignoring Hannah's protests. "But
      first, Harry — put it on your list. That, the Power of Love, and
      the Imperius Curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, pulling the small stack of parchment which held
      The List (Milo made a note to make a few backups of it with
      <em class="calibre7">Amanuensis</em> or the Pen of Plagiarism +5, just in case) out
      of his school bag and diligently wrote them down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo uncomfortably pulled his filthy Robe of Arcane Might over
      his pajamas. The way things were going recently, he didn't want to
      waste a <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em> to clean it off — there was no
      telling when he was going to be ambushed next.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right," he said. "Lead on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, Ron, and Milo strode out of the hospital wing</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should hide under the cloak," Harry suggested when they were
      out of earshot of the other patients.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come on," Milo scoffed. "Three people can't wear one magic
      item. It just can't be done. I know I like to bend the rules
      sometimes, but <em class="calibre7">seriously</em>. Three people under one cloak?
      <em class="calibre7">That's</em> a stretch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry asked. "That's somewhat surprising. It seems
      large enough to cover all of us; I mean, it was made for an adult,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trust me," Milo said authoritatively. "It's patently
      impossible. It'd be like trying to cast a spell in the same turn as
      running, or drinking two potions in a six-second period. Can't be
      done. End of story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," said Harry. "Go figure. Okay, well <em class="calibre7">you</em> should
      wear it, then, because you're supposed to still be in the hospital
      wing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good plan," Milo said, pulling the cloak over his dirty,
      bloodstained magic robes. "All right, let's go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry led them through some unfamiliar Hogwarts corridors
      (always a rather risky prospect), past a door pretending to be a
      wall (and once, embarrassingly, directly into a wall pretending to
      be a door), down a staircase that turns into a ramp if you don't
      ask it nicely not to, and, finally, into an old, abandoned
      classroom. The Cloak of Invisibility turned out to be unnecessary,
      as the only person they encountered (if the word 'person' could
      even be applied here) was the Bloody Baron, who, as usual, ignored
      them entirely. In the classroom were cobwebs and a thick coating of
      dust on most of the desks and chairs, except for a wide corridor
      down the middle where a number of them had been pushed to the side
      — presumably to allow persons unknown to carry in Harry's mirror,
      which sat at the front of the room, where the Professor would stand
      to lecture the class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo let out a low whistle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now <em class="calibre7">that</em>," he said, "is one <em class="calibre7">Hell</em> of a
      magicky-looking item." The mirror was, for one, <em class="calibre7">huge</em>. It's
      top nearly touched the ceiling, and Milo couldn't figure out how
      anyone could possibly have gotten it through the door. The frame
      was of intricately worked gold, and if that didn't scream Magic,
      nothing did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That the technical term, you figure?" Ron asked wryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," Harry said impatiently. "Sit in front of it and
      <em class="calibre7">look</em>, it's my mum and dad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoa, hold on there," Milo said. "If there's one thing you
      learn as an Adventurer it's that you don't just go looking in
      random magic mirrors before finding out <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> what they
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I know what this one does," Harry protested. "It shows my
      parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Milo said cautiously. "I've seen mirrors that create
      evil copies of anyone who looks at them, mirrors that suck you in
      and trap you, mirrors that blast you forwards in time, mirrors that
      switch your mind with the owner's, mirrors that make
      <em class="calibre7">Suggestions</em> you can't refuse —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My mirror does that!" Ron interrupted. "Tells me whether my
      shirt's untucked, my laces are undone, or there's something in my
      teeth! And when you ignore it, blimey, does it make a fuss."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But this mirror doesn't do anything like that!" Harry protested
      again. "I looked into it, and I'm fine!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked at him suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do we know that?" he asked. "Seems awfully suspicious,
      doesn't it? I mean, if you <em class="calibre7">were</em> possessed by some evil
      being who placed the mirror here, the first thing you'd do is try
      to convince others to look at it, too, wouldn't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'm <em class="calibre7">not</em> — I'm <em class="calibre7">fine</em>, really. You're just
      paranoid 'cause of Hannah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Use <em class="calibre7">Protection From Weevils</em>," Ron suggested.
      "Remember, the thing you did on Hannah that made her Hannah
      again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good thinking. <em class="calibre7">Protection From Evil</em>," Milo cast on
      Harry. The Boy-Who-Lived was surrounded by a brief glow which faded
      in a fraction of a second. "Feel any different now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said with an audible edge in his voice. "Because I
      <em class="calibre7">wasn't possessed</em>. Can we look at the mirror now, or do you
      want to throw me in the water and see if I float first?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would I —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, nevermind. Just look at the bloody thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Milo said. "Ron, you go first." If the mirror
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> launch some form of attack, Milo figured that, of the
      three of them, he would be the best equipped to deal with it and
      therefore couldn't afford to be neutralized on the first round.
      That was his story, and he was sticking to it. Eagerly, Ron stepped
      forwards and stared at the mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gasped, and Milo nearly started raining arcane doom
      everywhere before he started speaking again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey! I'm — I'm head boy!" Ron said, astonished. "And I'm
      holding the Quidditch Cup! I — wow, it looks like I'm captain of
      the team!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" Harry asked. "Let me see that!" Giving Ron a
      little shove, he positioned himself right in front of the mirror.
      "No, look, see? It's my mum and dad! They're <em class="calibre7">right</em> there
      in front of us!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Ron said slowly, "it's different for everyone?" Then
      his eyes widened. "Do you reckon it shows the future?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can it?" Harry asked. "All my family are dead,
      remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't really mean anything," Milo said. "There's no
      reason, beyond the fact that it would be <em class="calibre7">highly</em>
      improbable, that Ron couldn't become <em class="calibre7">both</em> head boy and
      Quidditch captain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And as for your parents, well, there's dozens of ways for my
      kind of magic to bring back the dead," Milo said slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry said in an odd voice. "I'd forgotten about that."
      Perhaps it was an unusually high Sense Motive roll for once, or
      Milo's recent ... confused state, but something told him that Harry
      was lying and hadn't, in fact, forgotten for a moment that Milo
      could, one day, <em class="calibre7">Limited Wish</em> Harry's parents back to
      life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Milo said eventually, screwing up his courage. "I think,
      maybe, I should have a go at the mirror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a fair amount of trepidation, Milo stepped up in front of
      the ornate mirror while trying to avoid thinking of all the various
      kinds of horrible, trapped mirrors out there. Now that he thought
      about it, he couldn't recall a <em class="calibre7">single</em> magical mirror that
      didn't have some form of vicious curse. His eyes were still
      carefully averted, staring at the toes of his adventurer's
      boots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Why, oh</em> why <em class="calibre7">did I use my only</em> Protection From
      Evil <em class="calibre7">on Harry?</em> Milo berated himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Steadying himself with deep, calming breaths, Milo forced his
      eyes to stare directly at the polished silver surface.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The universe unveiled itself in front of him, and, while,
      conceptually at least, Milo knew from Wizards experimenting with
      Divinations and <em class="calibre7">Greater Teleport</em> that the distance between
      stars was inconceivably far and that the distance between
      <em class="calibre7">galaxies</em> made even <em class="calibre7">that</em> colossal distance seem
      completely negligible, Milo could see, clearly, pinpoints of light
      unfolding before him in numbers so large that they didn't have
      names. Many of those stars had planets, and many of those planets
      had moons, and a rare few of those planets and moons had life. Milo
      saw stout, bearded dwarves bustling about in their mines and
      forges, not knowing that with every greedy swing of their pick they
      unwittingly brought themselves one step closer to their own
      inexorable demise as they approached the horrors which lay beneath
      their underground cities. Milo saw proud elves, comfortable in the
      fact that they'd been toying with the very fabric of the universe
      and living in shining cities and soaring towers while the lesser
      races had yet to discover fire; blind, in their arrogance, to their
      ever-waning power, numbers, and relevance to the world outside of
      their sequestered paradises. Milo saw humans beyond number, living
      their lives, tilling soil, and always expanding outwards, propelled
      by their adventurous spirit and search for excitement, not knowing
      what was in store for them when they found there nowhere else to
      discover. Milo saw ankhegs, centaurs, chimera, dragons, gnomes,
      halflings, half-elves, aquatic elves, wood elves, dark elves, high
      elves, gray elves, wild elves, wood elves, orcs, goblins,
      hobgoblins, bugbears, half-orcs, magmin, barghests, blink dogs,
      dinosaurs, dire animals, ghosts, ghouls, ogres, oozes, mephits,
      medusae, merfolk, sahuagin, sprites, lamias, wyverns, will-o-wisps,
      and wraiths. Milo saw the entirety of the Prime Material as if he
      were examining every object, creature, and wisp of smoke with
      intense scrutiny. Milo saw the Great Wheel of the Outer Planes, the
      sixteen infinitely large planes of Celestia, Bytopia, Elysium, the
      Beastlands, Arborea, Ysgard, Limbo, Pandemonium, the Abyss,
      Carceri, Hades, Gehenna, Baator, Acheron, Mechanus, and Arcadia
      arranged clockwise around the barren Outlands, which, from its
      heart, rose the impossibly tall Spire, ringed at its peak by Sigil,
      The City of Doors. Milo saw the Lower Planes ripped apart by the
      never ending Blood War and the uncaring laughter of their thirsting
      gods. Milo saw the Inner Planes of Air, Fire, Earth, Water, and
      Positive and Negative energy from which the Multiverse itself was
      made. Milo saw the Astral, Ethereal, Shadow, and elusive Mirror
      Transitive planes, and the madness of the Far Realm. Milo saw the
      Multiverse in its entirety, and it was all <em class="calibre7">his</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo saw himself, with an infinitely high level in every Class
      and Prestige Class, with every feat worth taking and a good many
      that aren't, with infinite ranks in infinite skills, with infinite
      ability scores and infinite ability modifiers, with infinite hit
      points, with infinite spells per day and every spell known,
      lounging on what, at first glance, appeared to be an intricately
      carved throne of every precious metal, expensive special material,
      and gemstone Milo had ever heard of (and several others, as well)
      but upon closer inspection were, in fact, Epic Magic Items and
      Artifacts. Milo saw a backrest composed of dozens of Staffs of the
      Magi sitting on piles of Rings of Universal Energy Immunity and
      Bracers of Relentless Might. One armrest was simply the Axe of the
      Dwarvish Lords while the other appeared to be the great battleaxe
      of Heironeous Himself, sitting on a pile of the six weapons of his
      archenemy, Hextor. Milo, the most powerful character conceivable,
      lounged on his terrible throne, staring at His gauntleted hand (in
      some detached part of his brain, Milo realized it was nothing less
      than the Iron Gauntlet of War), an expression of detached ennui on
      his blank face. In his other hand, he idly spun the Gold Dragon Orb
      around his fingers, one of the most powerful artifacts in creation
      reduced to a mere stress ball. Who has any need of an Orb of
      Dragonkind, even the most powerful one, when Milo could simply
      rewrite reality to create a breed of <em class="calibre7">better</em> dragons,
      forced to bow to his every will?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had no enemies, for they had all long since been defeated.
      He had no adventures to undertake, for there were none of an
      appropriate Encounter Level. He had no friends, for he needed none.
      He had no dungeons to raid, for he had the Multiverse in his
      inventory. He had no familiar, for they could be traded for more
      powerful alternate class features. He had no partymembers, because
      in the impossible event that he would need allies, what could be
      more powerful than <em class="calibre7">Simulacra</em> of himself?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Milo in the mirror had everything he'd ever wanted,
      everything he'd ever seen, everything he'd ever heard of,
      everything he'd ever only conceived of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo —the real Milo — wasn't sure when he'd started screaming.
      He felt hands (the detached part of his brain that kept noticing
      minute details even in impossible situations noted that it must
      have been Ron and Harry, not that the rest of him cared) struggling
      to pull him away from the mirror, but even as they dragged him away
      from it he couldn't summon the willpower to tear his eyes from the
      horrible visage. Eventually, one of them wrapped the Cloak of
      Invisibility around the artifact, and the visions stopped — but the
      memories remained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the bloody <em class="calibre7">hell</em> was that?" Ron asked, his face
      pale and bloodless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I saw everything," Milo said weakly. He tasted blood in
      his mouth, he must have bit his tongue at some point. "And ... and
      it was mine. I had everything ... everything except a reason to..."
      he trailed off, his brain still not fully functioning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Reason to what, mate?" Ron asked nervously in an odd, falsely
      cheerful voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anything," Milo said. "No reason to anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look on the bright side," Ron said. "If that's the future, it
      means we beat You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You-Know-Who?</em>" Milo asked, his voice full of scorn.
      "The me in the mirror could have vaporized <em class="calibre7">You-Know-Who</em>
      with a Silent Stilled Heightened Maximized Empowered Intensified
      Twinned Explosive Quickened <em class="calibre7">Cantrip</em> just by willing it to
      be so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's good, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd imagine it would get dull after a few eons," Milo said,
      still trying to shake the horrifying images the mirror had shown
      him. Had it really shown him the future? What were the rules that
      governed it? "I'll need to take another look," Milo said
      eventually, staggering to his feet. He spat blood on the floor of
      the classroom, and wiped at his mouth with his even grimier
      robe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No</em>," Harry said firmly. "Absolutely not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to know how it works," Milo said. "I <em class="calibre7">need</em> to
      know if that's really the future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not going anywhere <em class="calibre7">near</em> that thing," Harry
      insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Fine</em>," Milo said sharply. "Then one of you two give it
      a close examination and tell me if you see anything weird. Look at
      the frame, and try not to get sucked in." Not even Milo was sure if
      he meant that last bit literally or figuratively. "I'll even close
      my eyes. See? 'Cause I don't. On account of my eyes being
      closed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not taking the Invisibility Cloak off until you're out of
      the room or blindfolded," Harry said stubbornly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With growing irritation brought on by his numerous injuries and
      conflicted feelings about his vision in the mirror, Milo muttered a
      few choice oaths as he fished a scarf out of his Belt of Hidden
      Pouches and obligingly tied it around his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we get on with it now?" he snapped. Then he took a deep
      breath and tried to calm himself down. "Sorry," he said eventually,
      picturing their hurt expressions. "I'm still kind of in shock from
      the... mirror thing. And yesterday's thing." Then he realized what
      he was doing, and his breath caught. "<em class="calibre7">Damnit!</em> I shouldn't
      have to care about your <em class="calibre7">feelings!</em> Argh, let's just examine
      this mirror and get it over with already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo heard a rustling of cloth as, presumably, the mirror's
      Cloak was lifted. There was silence as Ron and Harry were
      (hopefully) diligently examining the mirror's border and not being
      absorbed by its eldritch powers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi, Harry, look at this," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I saw that," Harry said. "Just looked like a load of
      Gobbledegook to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, doesn't look anything <em class="calibre7">remotely</em> like
      Gobbledegook."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could one of you tell me, pray, what it is that you are
      speaking of?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's some writing on the mirror," Harry said. "But it's
      nonsense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a number of ways Milo had available to transmute
      nonsensical writing into its sensical variant, but all of them
      required that he be able to actually see the words in front of
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Write it down on some parchment," Milo said. "Make sure you get
      it exactly right — does it use the Common alphabet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"English. The English alphabet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah, definitely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fortuitous. Shouldn't be too hard, then." Milo heard the
      unbuttoning of a school bag and hurried scratching of a quill
      before a piece of parchment was placed into his hands. Milo very
      carefully turned so he was facing away from the mirror and removed
      his blindfold. Written on a small scrap of parchment was, in
      Harry's scrawl,</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared at it for a moment, but concluded it wasn't in any
      language he recognized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Comprehend Languages</em>," he cast, a spell which allowed
      him to understand any written and spoken language. To his faint
      surprise, the writing remained completely nonsensical — the only
      conclusion was that it had to be in code of some form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll have to do this the good old fashioned way," Milo
      muttered. He'd been habitually placing skill ranks in Decipher
      Script every level because it was Intelligence-based and
      understanding ancient runes seemed the sort of thing a Wizard ought
      to be able to do, but he hadn't actually had a chance to use them
      before. Nevertheless, inconsequential problems such as never having
      tried to decipher anything before did nothing to prevent the fact
      that, by any standard, Milo was very nearly an expert
      cryptoanalyst. Milo was a little excited to finally have the
      opportunity to put his Skills to use, testing them against the no
      doubt formidable defences of the accursed mirror. He cracked his
      knuckles and stretched, pulling out a few sheets of parchment and
      his quill. It was time for some serious, heavy-duty Script
      Deciphering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's backwards," he said, sounding somewhat disappointed.
      "<em class="calibre7">I show not your face but your hearts</em> [sic]
      <em class="calibre7">desire</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your heartsick desire, eh?" said Ron skeptically. "That sounds
      sort of ... racy, to be honest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it was confused," Harry mused. "Because we haven't got
      any heartsick desires, so it just showed us whatever we wanted to
      see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you reckon the mirror just shows you whatever you want?"
      Ron asked, impressed. "Clever, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo simply groaned and seriously contemplated applying his
      forehead directly to a very inviting-looking hewn stone wall when a
      thought struck him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The mirror shows you your heart's desire</em>, he thought.
      <em class="calibre7">Even if you don't already know what it looks like</em>
      —<em class="calibre7">like Harry's parents or my, well, my entire
      Multiverse.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's face broke into a wide grin. He saw an exploit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">All I have to do is figure out how to change my heart's
      desire</em>, he realized, <em class="calibre7">and I can see whatever I
      want</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron, however, was developing an increasingly worried look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's something my dad always says," he said, "How did it go?
      Oh, right: <em class="calibre7">Never trust anything that can think for itself if
      you can't see where it keeps its brain</em>. Mind, I've gotten some
      right peculiar looks from his Ford Anglia now and again, and it
      seems perfectly friendly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Infinite power might be my long-term goal,</em> Milo
      thought<em class="calibre7">, although, to be fair, I'm starting to seriously
      reconsider that. Well, within reason, anyways. But what I</em>
      really <em class="calibre7">want, right now, more than</em> anything else<em class="calibre7">, is to
      find out what Voldemort's up to</em>. <em class="calibre7">Yup, honest. That's what
      I want.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now show me, mirror," Milo said quietly, and turned around. As
      a precaution, he readied an action: look away if it shows me
      anything other than information on You-Know-Who. You <em class="calibre7">can't</em>
      back down from readied actions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He winced in almost physical pain as he was given another
      infinitesimally short view of the Multiverse and his own horrible
      fate again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you <em class="calibre7">doing?</em>" Harry asked. "Don't <em class="calibre7">look</em>
      at the thing!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, trust me," Milo said, clutching his aching forehead. "I
      know what I'm doing. Sort of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Okay, so maybe I really don't care that much about the Dark
      Lord after all. How about something a little smaller... I want,
      more than anything, to see what</em> Kelgore's Fire Bolt <em class="calibre7">looks
      like written out in a spellbook</em>. That was sort of true, in
      fact — he had just decided, after all, that it would be his next
      research project. If he could somehow finagle the mirror into
      showing him what to write in his spellbook, he could save a week's
      work and a thousand gold pieces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Milo turned around again, it was with enough presage to
      fill a Type II Bag of Holding. Unfortunately, the mirror once again
      saw through his mental tricks, and he was treated to a view of
      Mirror-Milo killing time by covering every square inch of the Prime
      Material in <em class="calibre7">Arcane Marks</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm getting away from this thing," he said, flinching and
      attempting to look anywhere other than at the nightmare being
      played out in the glass. "The mirror, it's... it's... agh,
      nevermind. I'm going back to bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd been about to say 'the mirror, it's Evil,' but it clearly
      wasn't. It was absolutely, brutally, <em class="calibre7">horribly</em> Neutral. It
      showed you what your heart desired, but sometimes, what you desire
      isn't the same as what you desire you'd desire...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo walked back to the hospital wing, his head off in space,
      he suddenly had another idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder if someone here can bewitch me to desire nothing more
      than the spellbook entry for <em class="calibre7">Kelgore's Fire Bolt</em>?" he
      mused aloud. "Or other spells, for that matter. Mordy, remind me to
      ask Hermione, okay? Thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's familiar poked its furry head out of his extradimensional
      belt and nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe it was simply an unusually good roll, or maybe it was the
      +2 bonus to Spot and Listen granted from his bond with Mordy, but
      Milo suddenly felt as if a White Dragon was breathing down the back
      of his neck. Mordy's ears perked up, suddenly alert.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo knew not to look around stupidly and say 'Hello? Ron, is
      that you? Harry? This isn't funny, guys!,' followed by the
      inevitable 'Aaaaargh!' as whatever it was that was hiding out there
      ate his face. Instead, our gallant hero simply licked his
      suddenly-dry lips and walked forwards as casually as he could
      manage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cursing himself for leaving the Cloak of Invisibility with Harry
      and Ron, Milo reckoned his best chance was to —
      <em class="calibre7">wait</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry and Ron</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patting his pockets as if he had forgotten something, Milo
      cursed in a somewhat overdramatic fashion (not having any ranks in
      Disguise or Bluff, Milo was a terrible actor) and started to return
      to the room with the mirror. <em class="calibre7">Whatever</em> it was that had
      triggered Milo's Spot check (if that was, indeed, what it had been)
      had easy access to those two, who, still being relative novices at
      this plane's peculiar branch of magic, were nearly defenceless.
      Equally importantly, Milo didn't particularly want to face it alone
      in his current state.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While turning around and searching his pockets, Milo had a
      chance to look around the corridor, which remained empty save for
      the obligatory suits of armour and statuary. Mio considered casting
      <em class="calibre7">See Invisibility</em>, but remembered how that had seemed to
      have no effect, oddly, on whatever it was Snape had used to hide
      himself in his office before the Quidditch match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Detect Thoughts</em>," Milo muttered under his breath. Mere
      Invisibility would be of no use against the spell, which revealed
      the presence — and, if he concentrated on it long enough, the
      number — of intelligent, conscious creatures in a cone emanating
      from Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spell immediately alerted him that he was right — something
      intelligent was standing within sixty feet of him. Milo forced
      himself not to look around nervously, waiting for the spell to
      cough up how many people — or bloodsucking monsters — there were
      skulking around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When it finally did, Milo was so surprised that it almost broke
      his concentration on the spell. He'd thought there would be one, or
      two at the most, sneaky persons and/or bloodsucking monstrosities
      for him to <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em> and run away from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Within the fairly narrow conical field that <em class="calibre7">Detect
      Thoughts</em> covers, Milo detected in the seemingly-empty corridor
      no less than twelve sentient creatures.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
