<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 24: Nick of Time, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 24: Nick of Time</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: For those who don't know, the Far Realm is
      basically the Elemental Plane of Cthulhu. Also, Liquid Sunlight can
      be found on page 110 of Complete Scoundrel and is useful for
      literally <em class="calibre7">any</em> character.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minor Rules Note: I only realized <em class="calibre7">today</em> that 3.0 and
      3.5 have different XP reward rules. I never did get the 3.5 DMG and
      the SRD doesn't have the XP chart, so who knew? Because it's what
      I'm more familiar with, I, as DM, rule that Harry Potter and the
      Natural 20 uses 3.0's system for that alone. Anyways, on with the
      story!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">ORWELLIAN EDIT: Fixed a number of typos and some weird tense
      problems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">EDIT2: To clarify, I'm using 3.0's <em class="calibre7">Experience Point</em>
      rules, but 3.5 rules everything else. The difference is that 3.0
      awards XP based on the average party level (so the PCs all get the
      same amount), whereas 3.5 awards it by the character's individual
      level (so lower-level PCs get more than higher-level ones from the
      same fight).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had heard it said that a Wizard, given time to prepare,
      could defeat any obstacle in existence. To be fair, most of these
      times had been from Milo's own mouth. Also, the saying assumed the
      Wizard had access to Magic Item dealers and a way to purchase
      spells. And, for that matter, three to four meatshields. That said,
      walking down the dirt path to the Forbidden Forest at 8:00PM on
      Friday evening, Milo felt ready for <em class="calibre7">anything</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had a holy symbol of Boccob around his neck with his Amulet
      of Protection From Evil, a holy symbol of Pelor wrapped around his
      left wrist like a bracelet and a holy symbol of Heironeous around
      his right — even Mordy, sitting on his shoulder, had a compact
      symbol of the local variety (just a pair of lines intersecting at a
      right angle; how boring could you get?) held prominently in his
      hand. The symbols were all of silver and polished till they shone
      <em class="calibre7">like mirrors</em> for optimum effect. He'd whittled twelve
      wooden stakes, six of which he kept in his Belt and six scattered
      about his person. That morning, he'd poured several pounds of fine
      garlic powder into the water supply before showering; the other
      Gryffindors had <em class="calibre7">not</em> been amused, but, Milo was pretty
      sure, neither would any vamps who tried to suck his blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhat more significantly, Milo had <em class="calibre7">finally</em> finished
      the Headband of Intellect +4 that he'd been putting off for months
      (in actuality, it was a small, discreet silver hairclip that would
      be all but impossible to notice in his tangled hair — local
      wizards, from what Milo could tell, rarely, if ever, wore the
      headbands that were all the rage back in Myra (city
      oflight!cityof<em class="calibre7">magic!</em>), but Milo still thought of it as a
      headband). In addition to making him marginally better at crossword
      puzzles, the Headband significantly increased the number of spells
      Milo could prepare every morning. Spells which Milo had
      <em class="calibre7">finally</em> gotten around to researching and he was dying to
      test out, ideally on some unsuspecting bloodsuckers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And <em class="calibre7">this time</em>, if only for the novelty of it, Milo had
      decided to actually <em class="calibre7">make sure</em> that local vampires were
      anything like the vampire's back home. Quirrell had given him
      permission to read books from the restricted section on the
      subject, and, fortunately, they seemed more or less the same as
      what he was familiar with. Pale skin? Check. Inexplicably heavy
      accents? Check. Vulnerability to sunlight, running water, garlic,
      and mirrors? Check. Fangs? You betcha.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What had surprised Milo, however, was their apparent acceptance
      in wizard society. From what he could tell, they were persecuted,
      sure, but were still allowed to walk down the street in broad
      daylight (so to speak). Fred and George said that Honeydukes even
      sold blood-flavoured lollypops, although he wasn't sure how far he
      could believe anything they told him. Throughout the Azel empire,
      being publically known as a vampire was a death sentence.
      Werewolves seemed to be similarly treated, which, once again, it
      made Milo wonder why, exactly, everyone claimed there were
      werewolves living in the Forbidden Forest when there seemed nothing
      illegal with them simply renting a flat in Cardiff. <em class="calibre7">Ah,
      well</em>, Milo thought, <em class="calibre7">best not draw too much attention to
      it.</em> It was a well-known fact that the universe generally
      responded poorly to any attempt to draw attention to its numerous
      flaws.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As to these particular vampires, Milo assumed they were either
      criminals or ex-followers of Voldemort on the run. <em class="calibre7">Either
      way</em>, Milo thought grimly, <em class="calibre7">they picked the wrong forest to
      haunt</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-you're late," Quirrell said calmly as he approached the
      Defence Professor standing on the snowy path, silhouetted by light
      from the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Wizard is never late," Milo intoned, as if quoting an ancient
      saying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most t-timepieces would d-d-disagree with you," Quirrell said.
      "Irregardless," (Milo winced) "we m-must p-press on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo said suddenly. "Before I forget, you'd best take
      this." Milo fished out a small necklace from his belt and held it
      out for Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what is it?" Quirrell asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amulet of Protection From Evil," Milo explained. "In case they
      try to Dominate —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell dropped the Amulet as if it were a Stone of Weight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I th-think," Quirrell stammered, "that it w-w-would interfere
      w-w-with my... p-protective Charms. Y-y-you t-t-take it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. Quirrell was <em class="calibre7">lying</em>. He'd actually made a
      Sense Motive check for once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Milo said, keeping his voice neutral. "Mordy can wear
      it." <em class="calibre7">Why would he refuse protection?</em> Milo wondered. He
      could only think of three reasons: either Quirrell <em class="calibre7">wanted</em>
      to be possessed by something, he was <em class="calibre7">already</em> Imperius'd
      and his controller ordered him to drop it, or he had a
      <em class="calibre7">different</em> magical amulet on already — wearing two at once
      prevented either from working reliably. Milo dismissed the first as
      patently ridiculous, and as for the third ... there was no reason,
      as far as Milo could tell, for Quirrell to lie about that. So.
      Quirrell was already controlled by the enigmatic ... whoever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Unless I failed my Sense Motive check so badly I registered
      a false positive</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">No, wait ... that's
      impossible, isn't it? Because a Sense Motive check wouldn't even be
      called unless he was Bluffing. I think.</em> Milo had never paid
      all that much attention to the NPC interaction rules — that's what
      Bards were for. Well, it was biting him now. <em class="calibre7">Next time I'm
      home, I'm buying a rulebook and I'm going to Autohypnosis the
      entire thing, no matter how long it takes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Regardless, Milo didn't see that he had much choice. If Quirrell
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> possessed, he'd very likely just kill Milo if he tried
      to flee. If Quirrell <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> possessed, then there'd be no
      reason to flee, anyways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, let's go," Milo said, his voice steady with confidence he
      no longer felt. Quirrell gave a barely perceptible nod and headed
      off to the forest. "What's the plan?" Milo asked, falling into step
      with the professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-we go in, w-we s-send them b-b-back to their f-f-foul
      m-master, w-we g-go home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough. Does the Killing Curse work on vampires?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It w-works on anything," Quirrell smiled. "Except f-for
      D-Dementors." Milo bit his lip to keep from blurting out that he
      had a pretty good idea of something <em class="calibre7">else</em> the Killing Curse
      wouldn't work against. <em class="calibre7">I should probably keep that little gem
      close to my chest until I find out why Quirrell is lying to
      me</em>. However, it did imply that the local vampires
      <em class="calibre7">were</em> somewhat different from what Milo could not help but
      consider 'normal' ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This Plane is <em class="calibre7">so</em> weird," Milo said under his breath.
      "I wonder if I didn't accidentally fall into the Far Realm
      somehow." Milo harboured brief thoughts of having, maybe, gone
      <em class="calibre7">beyond</em> the Far Realm, but cut that line off quickly;
      madness lay in that direction. "Any idea of their numbers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you, sir, are just <em class="calibre7">full</em> of useful information
      today, aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These ... <em class="calibre7">Experience P-Points</em>"— Quirrell's mouth
      twisted with obvious distaste —"of w-which you sp-speak... w-will
      y-you earn them if I d-defeat the v-v-v... the c-creatures of
      d-darkness?" Quirrell said it as if he were simply making
      conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Milo said cheerfully, "just so long as I help in some
      way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Forbidden Forest, unusual among forests of the world, had a
      very clear and obvious boundary. On one side of an invisible line
      lay grassy areas where students were allowed and Hagrid lived; on
      the other, dense, dark, deep, dangerous woodland. Whether this was
      due to concerted effort on Hagrid's part, some powerful anti-growth
      Charm, or just one of nature's quirks, the result was a veritable
      wall of trees. Quirrell simply walked calmly down the path into the
      cavernous woods, but Milo paused at the border.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just because every trip you've made into this place has ended
      in disaster doesn't mean <em class="calibre7">this one</em> will," he said quietly
      to himself. "Besides, it's just <em class="calibre7">trees</em>." Wizards and
      forests, historically, do not get along well. Wizards generally
      prefer to live either in massive metropolises surrounded by other
      Wizards, or, alternatively, in precariously crooked towers on the
      edge of sheer cliffs or floating in the centre of a volcano.
      Forests, on the other hand, were <em class="calibre7">strictly</em> the domain of
      Druids (and the odd Cleric of Obad-Hai, god of nature, but Milo
      generally thought of those as wannabe Druids). Druids and Wizards
      got along like orange juice and toothpaste. "I am a master of the
      arcane powers that make the cosmic forces of the universe my
      plaything nineteen times per day," he said to himself, "and there
      ain't no fur-wearing treehugger that's going to stop me from going
      where I please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he said it firmly enough, he reasoned to himself, he might
      actually believe it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without further delay, he hustled into the woods after
      Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lumos</em>," Quirrell cast, and the tip of his wand began
      to glow like a torch. Milo winced as his eyes re-adjusted to the
      light and realised that, if he were ever separated from the Defence
      Professor or Quirrell dismissed the spell, Milo would be all but
      blind in the darkness. Milo <em class="calibre7">could</em>, if he wanted to, cast
      <em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em> to create lights of his own, but they only
      lasted for a minute and he could only do it once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, he fished out his liquid sunlight from his Belt of
      Hidden Pouches. The small glass sphere held a glowing golden liquid
      that was originally intended as a grenadelike weapon to mildly
      irritate light-sensitive creatures (or do negligible damage to
      vampires, for that matter), however, it proved universally more
      popular pressed into service as a torch that could never go out —
      and all for <em class="calibre7">much</em> less gold than an Everburning Torch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Passing the glowing sphere up to his familiar to carry, Milo
      eyed the sides of the path with caution. The last time he'd been
      down this way, he'd been with Hagrid to collect the rope and canvas
      he'd used the time <em class="calibre7">before</em> the last time he'd been here.
      And <em class="calibre7">that</em> time...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's shiver had nothing to do with the icy wind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When we get to the vampire nest," Milo said, "We should try to
      get them all in a group. I'll immobilize the lot, then you pick
      them off one by one." By <em class="calibre7">far</em> the most effective use of
      Arcane Magic in combat was at disabling large numbers of enemies
      simultaneously, generally for the Big Stupid Fighters to move in
      and finish the job. Milo had one <em class="calibre7">Kelgore's Fire Bolt</em>
      prepared just in case, but Quirrell would be infinitely more
      effective at single-target killing than Milo ever would be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Assuming</em> <em class="calibre7">he's not possessed by Lucius or Voldemort
      or someone...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, if it came to that, Milo was prepared. He would bet his
      life — in fact, that's exactly what he <em class="calibre7">was</em> betting — that
      he'd found a way around the Killing Curse. To a certain extent. For
      a few seconds. With luck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As long as he won Initiative, that is.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not for the first — or the last — time he wished he were a
      Cleric and could just cast <em class="calibre7">Death Ward</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Be silent</em>," Quirrell hissed. Milo hadn't realized that
      he was still repeating 'I am a master of the arcane powers that
      make the cosmic forces of the universe my plaything. I am a master
      of the arcane powers that make the cosmic forces of the universe my
      plaything...' over and over under his breath. Around him, dark
      bushes and creepers, almost black in the darkness, seemed to be
      reaching towards him hungrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Milo muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Foliage," Quirrell whispered. "Three O'Clock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The instant of warning was all Milo needed to avoid being taken
      by surprise as the monstrous spider — <em class="calibre7">Acromantula</em>, he
      reminded himself — leapt from nearby undergrowth at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Kelgore's Fire Bolt.</em>" The spider erupted into flame in
      midair and came crashing into the earth with a heavy thud, where it
      lay still. "I don't understand," Milo said. "Everything I've read
      said these bugs were smart — almost as smart as humans, actually.
      Supposedly, they can even talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"C-correct," Quirrell said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... why do they keep rushing me like this?" Milo wondered.
      "They can shoot webs. They can think for themselves. Hells, they're
      even supposed to ..." Milo's voice trailed off somewhat as realized
      what he was about to say. <em class="calibre7">They hunt in packs</em>.
      "<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shining golden particles — no matter how many times he cast the
      spell, Milo was always struck by how <em class="calibre7">pretty</em> they were (not
      that he'd ever admit to thinking that; it'd be undignified in a
      Wizard) — exploded around them. Milo generally used the spell to
      blind his enemies, but, in this case, it's other function — to
      reveal targets — served just as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What Milo had taken to be a cluster of particularly evil-looking
      shrubbery revealed it's sinister nature as a writhing, dark sea of
      chitin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aw, Hells," Milo said. "Run?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"R-run," Quirrell agreed. The forest exploded all around them as
      they bolted down the path, the spiders' hard carapace making angry
      chittering sounds as they rubbed against each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do the spiders hate me so much?" Milo asked as he
      practically flew down the path. "I mean, what did I do to them?
      Except kill their nephew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He risked a glance over his shoulder and was surprised to see
      barely a speck of golden light. At first, he thought that maybe
      he'd managed to lose his pursuers — then the more pragmatic, less
      wildly optimistic part of his brain added, helpfully, that no, he
      hadn't lost them; the <em class="calibre7">Glitterdusted</em> Acromantulas were
      simply being blocked by the swarming masses of their non-glowing
      brethren.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Not only am I going to be eaten</em>, Milo thought grimly,
      <em class="calibre7">but I've already garnished myself up for it.</em> He was
      practically sweating garlic. While Milo knew, academically, that
      Acromantulas were not the Monstrous Spiders of home, they seemed
      closely related; Monstrous Spiders, no matter how large, moved at
      the same speed as an unencumbered human. The Acromantulas, if they
      were gaining on him at all, were doing it slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What they did have that he didn't was endurance. <em class="calibre7">Why
      the</em> Hells <em class="calibre7">did I dump Constitution for</em> Charisma?
      <em class="calibre7">That</em> has <em class="calibre7">to be the stupidest thing done by a Wizard
      since the dawn of time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Boccob, god of magic, has a higher Charisma than
      Constitution</em>, part of his brain added in defence. Milo's
      breaths were becoming increasingly laboured, and his legs burned
      with effort. Quirrell, running very slightly ahead of him, seemed
      to be doing just fine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You—are—</em>not<em class="calibre7">—Boccob</em>, the other part of his
      brain added vehemently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Everybody's a critic</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose," Milo said between beleaguered breaths, "that
      you can do some magic on them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Against one? M-maybe. B-but on f-fifty?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Screw this," Milo muttered. "Time for plan B. <em class="calibre7">Web!</em>"
      Layers of sticky strands, stronger than steel, shot out of his
      hands and created a near-solid wall of silky webs between the trees
      on either side of the trail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Web</em> is one of those beautiful, <em class="calibre7">beautiful</em>
      spells in which, even if the victims make their saving throws,
      they're still pretty much screwed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How's <em class="calibre7">that</em> for delicious irony, eh? <em class="calibre7">Eh?</em> Think
      twice before you try to eat a Wizard, next time!" Milo shouted at
      the trapped spiders, who were angrily clawing at his webs. "Now you
      kill one or two," Milo added to Quirrell. Even as he spoke, he saw
      that no less than three spiders had nearly managed to free
      themselves from his webs; doubtless, several others further back
      were trying to find a way around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra, Avada Kedavra</em>," Quirrell cast the
      Unforgivable Curses (that is, Unforgivable when used on a
      <em class="calibre7">human</em>) as dispassionately as one would swat a fly. With a
      pair of eye-searing green flashes, two trapped spiders abruptly
      stopped struggling. "B-but I d-don't see... ah," Quirrell suddenly
      realized. The spiders' <em class="calibre7">—</em> those that still lived <em class="calibre7">—</em>
      struggling had taken on a very different form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'When you're being chased by an Owlbear in the woods,'" Milo
      quoted, "'you don't need to run faster than the Owlbear <em class="calibre7">—</em>
      just faster than the delicious, juicy Halfling.' Still, we'd best
      move along."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite the grisly carnage behind him, Milo grinned. Just like
      that, he'd covered one-third of the distance to level six. As he
      cautiously walked down the snowy path with Quirrell and ran the
      numbers on the Experience Points, his smile started to slip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Together we killed three spiders," Milo said quietly. "and I
      got 450 XP each. I got 600 from the one back in September, but I
      was lower level then..." he frowned. "...which is exactly how much
      I would have gotten if it were CR 6 and I had help from..."
      Abruptly, Milo stopped moving. <em class="calibre7">If he had help from a CR 12 ally
      each time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what was that?" Quirrell asked. "W-we really ought to p-press
      on. The A-Acromantulas will g-get through eventually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was you," Milo said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"E-excuse me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was you, the whole time <em class="calibre7">—</em> I've been an
      <em class="calibre7">idiot!</em> <em class="calibre7">You</em> killed the Acromantula."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just c-calm down and —" without warning, Quirrell shouted
      "<em class="calibre7">Oblivia</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Nerveskitter! Grease!</em>" Quirrell's wand slid from his
      hands and buried itself in the snow. "You didn't think I'd say
      something like that without a Readied Action to back it up, would
      you? <em class="calibre7">Mage Hand</em>." Quirrell's wand flew into Milo's grasp.
      <em class="calibre7">Thank you, Harry, for making me learn that trick</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is all just a b-big m-misunder —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You lost any chance of convincing me of that when you tried to
      erase my memory just now. So, who do you <em class="calibre7">really</em> work for?
      Lucius? Fudge?" Quirrell's mouth twitched slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I w-w-work for D-Dumbledore and the M-M-Minist—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, and I'm Pun-Pun the Kobold. Mordy — get the manacles."
      Milo kept a set of heavy steel manacles with one of the best locks
      on the market to avoid the infamous Prisoner's Dilemma (that is,
      what do Good adventurers do with captured Orcs?). Mordy dragged the
      manacles onto the ground at Quirrell's feet, then scurried back to
      Milo's shoulder. "Cuff yourself, and don't try anything funny if
      you want to avoid becoming a greasy stain on the ground." Milo was
      lying through his teeth — the magic he had available with the most
      killing potential was <em class="calibre7">Acid Splash</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is m-m-madness," Quirrell said, but complied. "Y-you don't
      understand—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I <em class="calibre7">understand</em> is that you've clearly been lying to
      me for some time — <em class="calibre7">and</em> you took my memories. I want to
      know why. And, Professor — make me believe it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anybody seen Milo anywhere?" Ron asked. "His version of
      Wizard's Chess is surprisingly addictive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope, sorry," Hermione said, lying back in one of the Common
      Room's overstuffed armchairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He had that mysterious assignment with Quirrell, remember?"
      Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right," Hermione remembered. "The one he refused to talk
      about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's going to the Forbidden Forest with Quirrell," Hannah said
      calmly. "They're going to hunt vampires."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There aren't any <em class="calibre7">vampires</em> in the Forbidden Forest,"
      Ron snorted. "The werewolves wouldn't put up with them. They hate
      each other so much it's proverbial."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you know that, Hannah?" Hermione asked, ignoring
      Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a terrible liar," Hannah explained. "And whenever I asked
      him about it, he'd glance towards the forest. Also, he stayed up
      late sharpening stakes in the Common Room and said 'I'm going to
      the Forbidden Forest with Quirrell to hunt vampires,' but I don't
      think he realized I was there. He often doesn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Hermione said. "So <em class="calibre7">that's</em> why none of the tables
      have got any legs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's doing <em class="calibre7">what?</em>" Harry asked. "We have to go after
      him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Into the <em class="calibre7">Forest</em>, mate? You're mad. There's giant
      <em class="calibre7">spiders</em> in the Forest." Ron looked like he'd rather kiss
      Snape than do what Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you remember what happened the <em class="calibre7">last</em> time he went
      into the Forbidden Forest with Quirrell?" Harry pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was it that they found buried Galleons? Can it <em class="calibre7">please</em>
      be that they found buried Galleons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He almost <em class="calibre7">died</em>, Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come <em class="calibre7">on</em>. Milo almost dies four times before
      getting out of bed every morning. He'll be <em class="calibre7">fine</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned, and set aside her homework.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think Harry might be right," she said. "But so is Ron. Look
      at it like this, though: he's almost died, what, three times?
      Four?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or thereabouts," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why hasn't he? Died, I mean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Hermione!</em>" Hannah sounded scandalized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't mean I <em class="calibre7">want</em> him to, I'm just asking how he
      always survives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because..." Harry mused. "Well, he gets rescued a lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grab your Cloak," Hermione said, her tone allowing no
      possibility of dissent. She then glanced out the window. As much as
      Milo drove her crazy sometimes, they <em class="calibre7">were</em> friends. "And a
      scarf, it looks chilly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Fool</em>," Quirrell said. "You have <em class="calibre7">no</em> idea of
      the f-forces with w-w-which you are m-meddling."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I tend to hear that a lot," Milo shrugged. On his shoulder, his
      familiar mimicked the expression. "How about you just tell me,
      though? If you don't, I'm going to have to assume you're an
      enemy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-is that s-supposed to be a th-threat?" Quirrell sneered
      contemptuously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, don't tell me. Presumably, you're after the Stone?
      Eternal life <em class="calibre7">does</em> sound like a pretty sweet deal —
      although, if I leave you here for the vampires to find you, you
      <em class="calibre7">might</em> just wind up with eternal <em class="calibre7">un</em>life. Assuming
      there even <em class="calibre7">are</em> any vampires, that is, and you didn't lie
      about that, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, the v-vampires are r-real, b-boy," Quirrell said. "And
      a-alone? B-by yourself? Th-they'll never let you leave the F-Forest
      alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Detect Thoughts</em>. Whatever you do, <em class="calibre7">don't</em> think
      about your boss." To Milo's surprise, he picked up, not one, but
      <em class="calibre7">two</em> sapient minds in front of him. "What the
      <em class="calibre7">Hells</em> —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without warning, the forest exploded into varicoloured
      light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus!</em>" Quirrell's wand flew from Milo's grasp.
      "<em class="calibre7">Petrificus Totalus!</em>" Milo's hands suddenly flew to his
      sides and stayed there. All of his muscles stopped responding to
      movement, except, oddly, his eyes — he could look around
      unimpeded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Half a dozen Death Eaters, masks and all, stepped out from the
      trees in a loose circle around Milo and Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It appears my son does not disappoint — for once," said an oily
      voice from behind one of the masks. "When he said you'd be leaving
      the castle with only a single teacher of dubious competence to
      protect you, I thought it was too good to be true. Fortune, it
      would seem, favours the patient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo struggled to speak, but his jaw remained clamped firmly
      shut. Quirrell was looking at the Death Eaters with a dangerous
      glint in his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"R-release me, L-Lucius," Quirrell said. "And y-you will be
      r-r-rewarded b-beyond your —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rewarded by <em class="calibre7">you</em>?" Lucius sneered. "What could I, the
      wealthiest wizard in magical England, have to gain by freeing you?
      Who even <em class="calibre7">are</em> you? I see no reason why I should not simply
      kill you on the spot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-you will f-face my w-wrath if you d-do this thing,
      <em class="calibre7">Malfoy</em>. F-for I <em class="calibre7">am</em> L-Lord—" Quirrell broke off,
      screaming in anguish. Lucius looked around at his Death Eaters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did one of you...?" he left the question hanging. They all
      shook their heads, seeming equally perplexed at the cause of the
      Defence Professor's sudden pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"F-forgive me," Quirrell stammered. "P-perhaps it is b-better to
      say that I h-h-have the <em class="calibre7">e-ear</em> of one that e-even y-you,
      L-Lucius, w-would n-not long r-regret d-displeasing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would not long regret..." Malfoy frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you'd be dead, boss," one of the masked wizards added
      helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, you'd be departed, boss," said another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I got that, Crabbe. Goyle. Now be silent." Had the spell
      preventing him from moving allowed, Milo would have grinned.
      <em class="calibre7">Like father, like son...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe you're bluffing," Malfoy said finally. "Nobody with
      friends that powerful would settle at being a schoolteacher."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">N-no!</em> L-Lucius, you f-fool, you d-don't under —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>," Malfoy cast, and Quirrell sagged against the
      tree. Lucius Malfoy bent over the unconscious teacher and softly
      whispered "<em class="calibre7">Obliviate</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," Ron said shakily. "What happened to all these
      spiders?" Through the folds of the Invisibility Cloak — Milo had
      been wrong, it <em class="calibre7">had</em> worked for multiple people at once —
      they could clearly see piles of dead Acromantulas surrounding a
      thick web.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It looks like they... turned on each other," Hermione sounded
      sick. "Although several of them look, well, just fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except that they're stone cold dead," Harry added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we should keep going," Hannah said. "It's safe to
      assume that Milo had some hand in this. He can't go thirty minutes
      without needing <em class="calibre7">someone</em> to pull him out of the fire."
      Despite her words, she fingered a crude-looking flower at her lapel
      with a fond expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," said Harry, feeling slightly embarrassed. "On we
      go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," said Ron, "I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but
      there's a big dirty <em class="calibre7">web</em> in front of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo once told me that magical webs burn quickly," Hannah
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brilliant," Ron said. "But where are we going to get any
      fire?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gave him an incredulous look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are we going to — <em class="calibre7">Are you a wizard or aren't
      you?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right," Ron said, looking sheepish.
      "<em class="calibre7">Incendio!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You, <em class="calibre7">boy</em>, have given me no end of trouble," Lucius
      sneered, his eyes narrowing through the holes in his mask. "That
      ritual was hardly supposed to summon an eleven-year-old abomination
      like <em class="calibre7">you</em>, but you'll have to suffice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo suddenly saw the reason for the Still and Silent Spell
      metamagic feats. Without the ability to speak or move his hands, he
      was completely helpless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crabbe! Goyle! Carry him. We must move beyond the wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">They're taking me beyond the wards?</em> Milo wondered.
      <em class="calibre7">So, they mean to Disapparate.</em> If they did that, Milo could
      very well wind up imprisoned in a cavern somewhere in the Earth's
      crust, for all he knew. It could take him <em class="calibre7">centuries</em> to
      earn enough XP to be able to <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em> out of that without
      monsters to fight. <em class="calibre7">Assuming they don't just kill me, of
      course.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rough hands grabbed him by the scruff of the neck and
      half-carried, half-dragged him through the dark forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">I am royally screwed</em>. <em class="calibre7">At
      least I know Quirrell's up to something, for all the good that does
      me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet!"Hermione suddenly hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you hear that? Someone's talking up ahead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I can see light," Harry said, squinting through his
      sight-augmenting glasses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As quietly as they could, the four of them crept along the
      narrow, winding path towards the tiny points of light up ahead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looks like four or five wands lit up," Harry said as they
      approached.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Quirrell and Milo only have two between them," Ron
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Milo's doesn't even count," Hermione added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He could have used his <em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em> spell," Hannah
      said, peering through the trees. "It would look sort of like that."
      She sounded somewhat skeptical, though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be," Harry said dubiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we should assume it isn't them," Hermione said. "And
      that they aren't friendly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good plan," Harry said. He tried to sound confident, but,
      really... what could they possibly do against a group of
      fully-trained wizards? He'd only learned how to disarm less than a
      week ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moving was awkward with four bodies under the Cloak, but they
      slowly gained ground on the party ahead of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's voice caught as they came close enough to see their
      masks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Death Eaters," he hissed. "Followers of You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Merlin," Hermione said softly. "We should go back and tell
      Dumbledore. We should have told Dumbledore right at the start."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well, he's a bit hard to reach," Ron said, "living in a
      password-protected secret office and all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet, both of you," Harry snapped. "Those two, the ones built
      like gorillas — you see? They've got Milo. He... he's not
      moving."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he — oh, Merlin. Can you tell if he's... is he breathing?"
      Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said without thinking. "I mean, I can't tell. Not...
      not the other thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're carrying him deeper into the Forest," Hermione mused.
      "They must mean to get outside the wards and Disapparate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then we have to hurry!" Harry urged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And do what?" Hermione asked. "No, seriously. What do we do if
      we catch them? They'll kill the lot of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have to try," Hannah said. "He saved my life, once. He saved
      Neville's, too. <em class="calibre7">He</em> wouldn't even think twice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we take them by surprise," Harry mused, "we can disarm the
      four not holding Milo simultaneously. As soon as the two big ones
      drop him and go for their wands, we do the same to them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what do we do?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever we want, really," Harry said. "We'll have wands and
      they won't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione chewed on her lip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," she said finally. "But if we don't get them all —
      <em class="calibre7">all</em> of them — on the first volley, we run. <em class="calibre7">They</em>
      won't be casting to disarm, or even to stun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Deal," Harry said reluctantly. Filled with equal parts
      reassurance in having a plan and abject terror in the face of
      near-certain death, he led his three classmates towards a larger
      group of hardened killers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," he said finally, ducking behind a tree about twenty
      paces from the Death Eaters. "We're in range. Everyone get ready,
      and remember practice. It's no different from the Duelling
      Club."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the club, Neville won't <em class="calibre7">slay</em> me if I mess up the
      spell," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We go on three, okay? One. Two. Th—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a short series of loud popping noises, like small
      firecrackers, and the Death Eaters vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're too late," Hannah said in a dead tone. "I can't... I
      mean, what... we... we're too late."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
