<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 25: Roll for Initiative, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 25: Roll for Initiative</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Something I've been doing this whole time, which
      I only just realized I haven't mentioned, is that I actually
      <em class="calibre7">do</em> roll for Milo's hit points. He is... not overly blessed
      with luck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today's character sheet can be found here: www myth-weavers
      com/sheetview php?sheetid=452348 (replace spaces with periods, as
      usual). Note: I just realized that it was set to "Private" view,
      and not "Public;" you should all be able to see the character sheet
      now. Sorry!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The whole chapter is posted. Once again, sorry for the wait! I'm
      doing my best. There's a pretty good chance next week's chapter
      will be late as well, but after that things should be normal
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, I threw in a non-canonical AU sidestory I wrote in a
      particularly dull European History class last week. It has moderate
      spoilers for Robert Jordan's <em class="calibre7">The Wheel of Time</em>, so don't
      read it unless you're caught up. And if you're not caught up, read
      the series. It's <em class="calibre7">awesome</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">SAD NOTE: Due to Prismatic Dragon-levels of homework, there
      will, tragically, not be an update of Harry Potter and the Natural
      20 on (the Canadian) Thanksgiving weekend. (That's this
      weekend).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stared up at the dark, dank masonry ceiling, following the
      patterns of the stone above him, shaking his head in disgust —
      something he regretted instantly as his vision swam blurrily. At
      some point —he couldn't remember when, which, all things
      considered, was concerning —he'd been searched for anything even
      vaguely magical-looking. His Belt of Hidden Pouches, his Amulet of
      Protection From Evil, his anti-vampire paraphernalia, and,
      amusingly enough, his wand were all missing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All that left him with were his magic robes, 'Headband' of
      Intellect, and Arcanist's Gloves, and whatever spells he still had
      memorized — which was to say, most of his best stuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except for his spellbook, which, if he didn't get it back soon,
      would leave him only capable of preparing the 0th-level spell
      <em class="calibre7">Read Magic</em> and... Milo frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt oddly like there were a pair of other spells he
      <em class="calibre7">should</em> know already but somehow... didn't. Like something
      was missing. He dismissed the notion that he'd been memory charmed;
      the now-familiar feeling he had could only mean one thing: he'd
      levelled up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Must have happened when I disarmed Quirrell</em>, Milo
      mused. Even including the steep XP reduction for nonlethal combat,
      the Defence Professor had given him <em class="calibre7">more</em> than enough to
      level up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Parchment," Milo said suddenly. "I need parchment
      <em class="calibre7">now</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When a Wizard increases in level, they learn two new spells for
      free. This is supposed to be an instantaneous thing — in fact, it
      is generally assumed that the spells learned were from ongoing
      research the Wizard was doing before levelling. This doesn't change
      the fact that if a Wizard goes through an incredibly violent day
      and, say, increases in level three times — an unusual, but not
      impossible feat — he can somehow perform months of spell research,
      not in the space of that one day, but <em class="calibre7">in the weeks leading up
      to it</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right that moment, Milo's brain was packed full of roughly three
      hundred and thirty-six hours of retroactive potential spell
      research. The fact that this was blatantly impossible didn't mean
      that it wasn't happening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His hands twitched. His head felt like it might well explode if
      he didn't get these spells on paper soon. Looking around the dimly
      lit room — a single flickering lamp provided what could generously
      be called light — he noticed that his considerate hosts had failed
      to furnish his cell with a stationary kit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo rolled up the left sleeve of his magically-augmented
      Hogwarts uniform, cursing like a level 10 Half-Orc Dread
      Pirate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe I'm reduced to this," he muttered (after heavy
      censorship, that is). Little-used rules allow a Wizard's forearm
      and upper arm to be used as three pages of spellbook each — more
      than enough for his purposes. The long-term thinker in him was
      screaming in protest at the wastefulness, both in terms of time and
      money, of his plans, but cold pragmatism ruled here: he still had
      all of his 3rd-level spell slots filled, but he'd used the lion's
      share of his 1st- and 2nd-level spells in the battle with the
      Acromantulas (or was it Acromantulae? Milo could never tell).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had his paper analogue, but he still needed ink. With one
      last, choice curse (it was Orc, and it wouldn't translate, so don't
      ask) he bit deeply into the skin of his right index finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How long had he been unconscious? Eight hours? More? Wincing
      with pain, he frantically scrawled the mystic words of power that
      were the keys to <em class="calibre7">Benign Transposition</em> and <em class="calibre7">Shatter</em>
      on his arm. The blood ran and spread, but it would do for now. It
      would have to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for his feat... Craft Magic Weapons and Armour was all but
      useless to him for now, but he'd need it, soon. He could always
      retrain it later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some time later — how long, Milo wasn't sure in the dark — he
      heard footsteps, ringing out loudly on the cold stone floor. He
      quickly doused the nearby lamp and turned to face the door,
      Readying himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The doorknob turned slowly, and eventually, the heavy wooden
      door opened. A masked, robed figure who Milo recognized by his
      stature as either Crabbe or Goyle senior entered, his wand out and
      its tip glowing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Shatter</em>." A thunderously loud ring erupted from the
      thin wooden stick as if a heavily optimized Hulking Hurler had
      thrown a boulder at a gong the size of a small barn. The light went
      out as the wand fragmented into splinters, leaving the two of them
      in near-total darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In most circumstances, a young boy trapped in a dark room with a
      grown man built along the same lines as the <em class="calibre7">USS Iowa</em> would
      hardly be thought to have the advantage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was not most circumstances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em>." The words were barely more than the
      ghost of a whisper, but in the hands of a Wizard, whispered words
      could be more dangerous than a rampaging Wyrm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What Crabbe (or Goyle?) Senior saw made the illusions Milo had
      used on Peeves and Ollivander look like a toddler's crayon
      drawing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment, the man screamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take it away," he whimpered through the mask. "Please, just —
      just take it away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's out of my hands," Milo lied. "I brought them, but they'll
      only leave when they're... appeased. You wouldn't want to know what
      they eat." Goyle (or Crabbe?) made an incoherent wordless sound.
      "Although..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo would have bet his spellbook that, had he possessed
      darkvision — and had the Death Eater not been wearing a mask — he
      would have seen a manic glimmer of hope in the man's eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">suppose</em> there's another way. I might be able to...
      intercede, on your behalf, if I had reason to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes! Anything!" An interesting quirk of the way Illusions work
      is that the <em class="calibre7">only</em> way to determine their true nature
      without magic (or by having them pointed out) is to succeed on a
      Will Saving Throw. A viewer is <em class="calibre7">only</em> allowed a Save against
      Illusions after either physical interaction or by studying them
      carefully. Milo doubted Crabbe (or Goyle) was blessed with a high
      Will save bonus, but even a 1st-level Commoner could roll a twenty.
      So long as Milo kept the image from actually <em class="calibre7">touching</em> the
      Death Eater — and kept him distracted — then Bigby himself couldn't
      tell the difference. In short: Illusions are like movie monsters.
      With a little care, even the staunchest audience will believe in
      them completely — until they appear on screen in clear
      lighting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me where I am, where my gear was taken, and why I was
      brought here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're in M-M-Malfoy's M-Manor." Milo was reminded briefly of
      the treacherous Defence Professor's stammer. "Y-your w-wand is in a
      st-storeroom down the hall, and you're here for the Ritual."
      Something about the way he said it implied a Capital Letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One last thing. Give me the key."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Key?" <em class="calibre7">Of course</em>, he thought. Wizards here wouldn't use
      keys; they'd just use Alohomora to open locks — and Colloportus to
      close them again. <em class="calibre7">Great.</em> Now <em class="calibre7">what do I do with
      him?</em> Seeing as how he was without his standard-issue fifty
      feet of hemp rope — a cardinal sin among Adventurers — and he
      couldn't just lock his captive in the room, he was in something of
      a dilemma. <em class="calibre7">Eh, what the Hells</em>. He could sit here
      moralizing over what to do with captured enemies, or he could act
      and hope for the best. "Don't even think about moving, or I'll let
      them have you." Without bothering to wait for a response, he walked
      over to the Death Eater and tore off strips of the man's robes to
      bind his arms and legs. Milo didn't have any Skill Ranks in Use
      Rope (because, seriously, who trains Use Rope?) but he hoped his
      crude knots would do. As an afterthought, he shoved the horrid mask
      into the man's mouth as a gag. Milo turned to leave, but paused in
      the doorframe. "I put a Contingent Curse on those knots," he said
      simply. "If they ever come undone, you'll die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A <em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em> could last as long as Milo concentrated,
      so he changed the Illusion from the writhing mass of Indescribably
      Awful Unspeakable Horrors to a tiny, dull grey ball that orbited
      his wrist slowly. Normally, he wouldn't bother going through such
      measures to save spells, but without his Spellbook, they were going
      at something of a premium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Closing the heavy door behind him, Milo stepped out into a dimly
      lit hallway. He was somewhat surprised to find it free of guards,
      but it made a sort of sense — this mad society was entirely
      populated by wizards, and wizards, by-and-large, had better things
      to do than guard prisoners. Not that a couple of low-level Muggles
      with pointy sticks could stop him if he really wanted out, if it
      came to that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To his right was a narrow, slightly crooked staircase; to his
      left, a thick door like the one behind him. Didn't take a
      <em class="calibre7">Genius Loci</em> to figure out which way led to the storeroom.
      The door was, unsurprisingly, locked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shatter could destroy any nonmagical object of up to sixty
      pounds. The thickly Reinforced door weighed well more than that,
      but, when it came to it, what, exactly, was an object? A door? A
      plank? certainly. Part of a door? No, that was <em class="calibre7">part</em> of an
      object. But one of several planks making up a door? If they weren't
      an object, then neither was the door — by the same logic, the door
      couldn't be destroyed because it was part of the house, and the
      house because it was part of the planet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Shatter</em>." Regrettably, he had to dismiss his Silent
      Image. The thick chunk of mahogany connected to the polished brass
      hinges holding up the door exploded away from Milo's outstretched
      palm. The rest of the door teetered precariously for a moment
      before falling to the ground with a deafening clatter that could
      likely be heard from the top of Mount Celestia. <em class="calibre7">Well, stealth
      has never been my strong suit in any case.</em> Zook — assuming he
      was still alive — would be ashamed of him. <em class="calibre7">Are any of them
      alive? Am I the last one?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stepping over the ruins of the once-fine door, Milo entered a
      surprisingly comfortable-feeling ten-by-ten stone room. <em class="calibre7">All it
      needs now is an orc guarding a chest</em>, he thought wryly. Dusty
      boxes were scattered about the floor space haphazardly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em> — <em class="calibre7">My Belt of Hidden Pouches</em>."
      Heaving a sigh of relief, he allowed the gentle tug of his
      Divination to lead him to a box seemingly indistinguishable from
      the others, the lid of which came off easily. Neatly stored inside
      were his various magical doodads. Milo was about to reach for them,
      but hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is</em> far <em class="calibre7">too easy</em>, he thought.
      Overconfidence was pretty well standard-issue among archvillains,
      but this was <em class="calibre7">ridiculous</em>. They left him — a Wizard — alone
      in a room? He hadn't even been bound, blindfolded, and gagged (not
      that any of those would be a guarantee; Still and Silent Spell
      existed for a reason, after all). And putting his Magic Items in a
      room <em class="calibre7">right next to his cell</em> was simply insane. Frankly, he
      should have been executed, looted, and left in a ditch by the road
      somewhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had made too many mistakes by rushing in blindly and
      ignoring the signs around him. He needed to stop and examine this
      from every angle before he got himself killed. It was time for an
      Intelligence Check. Time to Take Twenty, in fact. What did Milo
      <em class="calibre7">know</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: the Death Eater had said he was needed for a ritual.
      Presumably, they needed him alive, or they wouldn't have gone
      through all the effort of capturing him when it would have been
      much, <em class="calibre7">much</em> easier to kill him before he knew they were
      attacking him. He reckoned it wasn't unreasonable to assume that
      this ritual had something to do with the one that had summoned him
      here in the first place, if only because it was the only other time
      the words 'ritual' and 'Malfoy Manner' had coincided in this
      particular story arc. So... what was the goal? To send him back?
      Somehow, Milo doubted that a group of villains who could,
      apparently, 'eat death' would take pains to see him home
      safely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: Lucius had taken <em class="calibre7">grossly</em> inadequate measures to
      keep him imprisoned once captured. This either implied a serious
      lack of knowledge about Milo's magical capabilities — something he
      doubted Lucius had, seeing as how Snape, presumably acting on
      Lucius's orders, had nearly had Milo thrown out of Hogwarts by
      exploiting the differences in their respective magical abilities —
      or that he <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> Milo to escape. But that was
      <em class="calibre7">stupidity</em>. Why capture Milo only to give him what amounted
      to a key, a bagged lunch, and a map out of his cell? Was Lucius
      <em class="calibre7">looking</em> for some sort of climactic showdown? Surely not.
      Milo knew little of Voldemort's lieutenant, but among the list of
      things he <em class="calibre7">did</em> know, 'self-destructive flair for dramatics'
      was conspicuously absent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: all of Lucius's actions known against Milo to date had
      been with the end goal of capturing him alive. To do that, Milo
      would need to be taken outside of the grounds, where the faculty
      and wards would be unable to protect him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None of this answers the question of how I escaped so easily,"
      Milo muttered. Maybe... could he have had help from inside Lucius's
      camp? It was far too tenuous to be listed among his 'facts' (many
      of which, Milo was sure, were tenuous enough to make any
      respectable logician shudder), yet it seemed the only reasonable
      conclusion. The only other reason Milo could think of would be some
      sort of trap, but he couldn't see any reason for the Lucius and the
      Death Eaters (a part of Milo's brain idly noted that 'Lucius and
      the Death Eaters' sounded like the name for a group of travelling
      Chaotic Evil Bards) to lay a trap for him <em class="calibre7">while he was
      unconscious and in their hands</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If the good guys really had a mole, he had to be someone with
      enough decision-making power to oversee the placement of Milo's
      stuff, but not enough to simply leave it with him in prison. So.
      One of Lucius's right-hand men was a traitor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Regardless, the room was unlikely to explode if he touched his
      Belt, so he suited up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: when Milo had been Imperiused, his controller had made no
      effort to order him outside of the Hogwarts grounds. Therefore,
      Lucius — and by extension, Snape and Draco — had <em class="calibre7">not</em> been
      responsible for having him Imperiused after Christmas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: he had, however, been ordered to investigate the
      Mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: Quirrell was a traitor, yet <em class="calibre7">not</em> in league with
      Lucius. Thinking back to The Plot, Milo realized he'd made a
      serious error: he'd assumed that the evil would be monolithic; one
      giant, shadowy organization out to get him. This was evidently not
      the case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: the Philosopher's Stone was obviously hidden on the
      forbidden third-floor corridor in Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: the day the Troll was released, both Quirrell and Snape
      had immediately gone to that corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: Quirrell had killed what was at least <em class="calibre7">one</em> of the
      guardians of the Stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: the Philosopher's Stone was one way for Voldemort to
      return.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: Quirrell had uncharacteristically volunteered to lead the
      investigation to find whoever was killing unicorns in the Forbidden
      Forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: Unicorn blood was another way for Voldemort to return.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's pulse quickened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: Milo had been a blind idiot to believe the Troll was
      responsible for killing the unicorns.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that wasn't the end of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: Milo <em class="calibre7">himself</em> was another way for Voldemort to
      return.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: Quirrell knew this, and also knew that Milo required more
      Experience Points to do the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fact: Quirrell had taken an unusual interest in Milo, and had
      asked several questions about how he levelled up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was it the Professor had said? <em class="calibre7">You, Milo, are a prize
      greater than any Philosopher's Stone</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo felt chilled to his spine, and it had nothing to do with
      temperature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Conclusion: Quirrell was trying to bring Lord Voldemort back
      from the dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No, wait. That's wrong</em>. <em class="calibre7">He already has unicorn
      blood.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Conclusion, Revised: Quirrell <em class="calibre7">has already brought Lord
      Voldemort back from the dead</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's knees turned to jelly, and it wasn't because of the Jelly
      Legs Hex. His breathing accelerated into a staccato beat of shallow
      gasps; the edges of his vision began to darken. <em class="calibre7">I told him</em>
      everything <em class="calibre7">he asked.</em> <em class="calibre7">I may as well have gone up to the
      Dark Lord Voldemort and handed him a copy of the Rules on a
      platter</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he called himself a <em class="calibre7">Wizard</em>. One of the Wise. He
      wasn't worth his pointy hat. What had he accomplished? He'd as good
      as told Voldemort — Godsdamned <em class="calibre7">Voldemort</em> — about the
      secret workings of Arcane Magic and the D20 System. Milo had almost
      <em class="calibre7">killed</em> one of his best friends. With a <em class="calibre7">dagger</em>.
      Reality was his plaything, and he'd resorted to throwing a block of
      sharpened metal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With effort, he steadied his breathing enough to speak. He felt
      a sharp, metallic tang of metal in his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he called himself an Adventurer. A Hero. An Optimizer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I dumped Constitution. What kind of Optimizer am I?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Pazuzu.</em>" The walls of the room seemed to distort
      slightly, but it could have been a trick of the flickering light.
      The slight tremors could well have been muscle spasms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Pazuzu.</em>" The lights — what few there were in this
      basement — went out. He thought he could hear quiet laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Pa</em> —" He yelped at a sudden, sharp pain in his hand.
      The light returned as if nothing had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the <em class="calibre7">Hells</em> are you <em class="calibre7">doing</em>? Are you trying
      to get us <em class="calibre7">killed?</em>" The voice was small, but it seemed to
      fill the whole room. A small, slightly overweight, white-and-brown
      rat was hanging onto Milo's right hand, his fingernails dug into
      the fine fabric of Milo's Arcanist's Gloves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mordy?" Milo asked in astonishment. "I thought you'd still be
      in the Forbidden Forest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of the first things a familiar learns is how to disappear
      when not needed." Mordy took on a dry, lecturing tone. "And when
      Save-Or-Dies start flying is the first sign a familiar isn't
      needed. I ducked into my Belt as soon as you got paralyzed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you mean <em class="calibre7">my</em> belt," Milo said indignantly. "And
      where do you get off biting me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordenkainen snorted, a slightly incongruous sound for a
      rat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look at it this way. What happens to you if I die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I lose a bunch of Experience Points," Milo shuddered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what happens to me if <em class="calibre7">you</em> die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no idea," he confessed. "I could look it up when we get
      home —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't bother," the rat interrupted. "There's no mention of it
      anywhere. Centuries ago, when the ancestors of modern researches
      first began testing the laws of the universe to determine the
      rules, they didn't bother investigating it. That hasn't changed
      since. <em class="calibre7">Nobody</em> knows what happens to a familiar whose
      Wizard dies. Let's keep it that way, shall we? I don't fancy waking
      up as an ordinary rat again. Your fool stunt could have killed us
      both. Trying to summon a Demon Prince? What were you
      <em class="calibre7">thinking</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My Intelligence is less than <em class="calibre7">half</em> yours — though you
      wouldn't know by looking — and even <em class="calibre7">I</em> know that's a
      terrible idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was the only way—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're True Neutral. He'd have no obligation to enter
      negotiations with you. Once summoned, he could have gutted you like
      a fish and gone on to do Gods know what to this Plane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right. I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you — <em class="calibre7">did you just admit a mistake?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistake? I've made nothing <em class="calibre7">but</em> mistakes. Quirrell is
      working for He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. Now that he knows I'm on to
      him, he's probably killing my friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This isn't like you. What's <em class="calibre7">wrong</em> with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like you don't already know," Milo said sullenly. "You can read
      my mind, remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's an <em class="calibre7">empathic</em> link, not a <em class="calibre7">telepathic</em> link.
      Moron." Despite his words, Milo felt a flash of concern through the
      bond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy's expression — such as he had, being a rat — hardened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, look at you, summoning Demon Princes and moping and making
      rules errors. You know what you remind me of?" The familiar's words
      were positively <em class="calibre7">dripping</em> with contempt — an effect
      undermined slightly by the emotions drifting through their bond.
      <em class="calibre7">Worry. Concern. Love.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't say it." But it was hopeless, Milo knew <em class="calibre7">exactly</em>
      what Mordenkainen was going to say — possibly because, in a manner
      of speaking, they were two sides of the same person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An Apprentice-Level hack NPC, that's what. Are you a set piece,
      or are you a Player Character?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Says the glorified Class Feature."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, at least this <em class="calibre7">Class Feature</em> knows why he's
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why, pray tell, is that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm here because <em class="calibre7">you're</em> here. I'd follow you into
      Orcus's Throne Room. And, more the fool I am, I'd trust you to get
      us back out again. But I've only got the Intelligence of an average
      NPC Half-Orc. Now, what are we going to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, you suck at giving pep talks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I work with what I'm given. We share Skill Ranks, and it's
      hardly <em class="calibre7">my</em> fault if you find better uses for them than
      Perform (Orator). Now. <em class="calibre7">What are we going to do?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo paused, his mind racing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're going to find Quirrell and stop him. But to do that,
      we're going to need to get out of this manor. Again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why are we going to do that?" Mordenkainen pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because..." Images flashed into Milo's head. Images of
      Voldemort, all cloaked in black with glowing red eyes, torturing
      Harry and Ron and Hermione. And... and Hannah. "Because..." Of
      Voldemort, walking unopposed into the Potters' house eleven years
      ago and murdering Harry's parents. Of him committing acts so foul
      that, not only did nobody mention them to this day, but that caused
      fully trained, battle-hardened wizards <em class="calibre7">to fear to even speak
      his name</em>. Quirrell wanted to unleash him again on this absurd,
      pathetic, broken, confused, third-party, inconsistent,
      <em class="calibre7">beautiful</em> Plane. "Because he'll hurt my friends. Because
      it's the right thing to do." It should have felt more profound,
      more impressive, changing one's alignment. Milo felt vaguely
      cheated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go forth and kick ass, my master."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the smell, of all things, that first clued Macnair in
      that something was awry. It started faint, and he simply ignored
      it. In a few seconds, it became overpowering. A dank, musty, earthy
      scent which reminded him of a crypt. Frowning beneath his mask, the
      executioner drew his wand and stuck his head into the hallway to
      see what was going on. Snape, relaying Malfoy's orders, had told
      him to keep an eye on the corridor while the others prepared for
      the Ritual. The oily Potions Master had been very specific; Macnair
      was to stand just out of sight of Crabbe. He said it was to
      optimize sightlines, whatever that meant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A rat scurried between his feet — this was unusual; Dobby would
      likely be punished severely for his negligence — but, otherwise,
      there seemed nothing unusual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goyle?" Macnair called out softly. Crabbe had been sent to Stun
      the prisoner again in case he came close to waking, but Crabbe
      should have been just around the corner. <em class="calibre7">Idiot must have
      wandered off</em>. He was about to return to his post when he
      noticed, just in sight at the end of the hall, what looked like a
      pair of feet sticking around the corner. With a sudden lurch, they
      were gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the H—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Benign Transposition.</em>" Macnair heard a tiny
      <em class="calibre7">crack</em>, like a mouse Disapparating, and suddenly the crypt
      smell was strong enough to make him want to gag. Macnair whirled,
      and found himself face-to-face with a walking, waking, nightmare.
      Empty sockets in a huge, misshapen skull stared at him, its jaw
      grinning grotesquely. The... thing, whatever it was, had to hunch
      over to fit in the cavernous hallways of Malfoy's manor, and its
      disproportionately long, skeletal arms ended in sharp, serrated
      claws. Bleached bone thudded against the polished mahogany wood as
      it walked calmly towards him. Macnair didn't know what it was, and
      wasn't about to wait to find out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra!</em>" A green bolt of hate-fuelled death
      flew at the monster and exploded harmlessly on its ribcage. Macnair
      stared at it in absolute amazement. "<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra! Avada
      Kedavra!</em>" Again and again, he fired the most powerful spell he
      knew, the spell that killed without fail, but the abomination
      simply ignored him and maintained its sedate pace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With sudden, lightning speed belying its utter lack of visible
      musculature, the nightmare leapt. Briefly there was pain, and then
      darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Shatter</em>." The aged, expensive, polished,
      exquisitely-crafted wooden door fell inwards, revealing a familiar
      dining room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy stared at Milo in utter astonishment for a split
      second, but quickly schooled his face to calmness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," the elder Malfoy said. "I see you've bested Crabbe and
      Goyle. No more than I'd expected. I suppose you wonder why we've
      brought you here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some," Milo said neutrally. There were twelve other Death
      Eaters in the room, all anonymous beneath their masks. One of them,
      at least, was probably a mole; the rest could be anyone. Despite
      his promise to never jump through a window again, he figured his
      best way out was the same as last time. This time, however, he
      could summon Skeletal Trolls — being mindless and Undead, they were
      immune to all three of the Unforgivable Curses, and, for some
      reason, Summon Undead III was Conjuration (as opposed to
      Necromancy, one of Milo's forbidden schools) so he could cast it
      without problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I think you will find that, if you will but listen for a
      moment, our aims are much the same," Lucius explained. Despite
      himself, Milo was intrigued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go on," he said skeptically. If worse came to worst, he could
      always fight his way out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were brought here <em class="calibre7">quite</em> by accident," Lucius said,
      "and — I swear this by the Most Noble and Ancient House of Malfoy —
      we are preparing a ritual that will send you back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo gaped with genuine astonishment. This was completely out of
      left field.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do realize that I'm not naturally predisposed to trust
      someone wearing a skull mask, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, these?" Lucius pulled off his mask, revealing his long,
      platinum blond hair and politely smiling face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And this... this ritual of yours," Milo said, "it won't, by any
      chance, return me home dead or horribly dismembered?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to my knowledge, no. So, what say you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... have to ask. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The ritual we... mistakenly used to bring you here cost us
      something," he said reluctantly, "something which can only be
      regained if you are returned. It is no concern of yours, however.
      I'm sure you have your own problems to deal with, where you came
      from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, there was the matter of resurrecting his
      almost-certainly-dead teammates...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was tempting. It was really, <em class="calibre7">really</em> tempting. He
      could go <em class="calibre7">home</em>, back to a world that ran on sensible,
      predictable rules, a world where he didn't have to re-invent the
      wheel every time he wanted to learn a new spell, a world where not
      <em class="calibre7">every single citizen</em> had access to At-Will No Save Death
      Spells. He could see his home; Myra, City of Light! City of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic!</em> more than lived up to its name. He could show
      Thamior the Unimaginably Horrid who was boss. He could fight
      <em class="calibre7">Orcs</em> again. <em class="calibre7">Gods, I miss fighting Orcs</em>. And
      yet...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Milo said finally. "I still have work to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry to hear that. Things would go... easier, for both of
      us, if you were alive for the ritual, but, alas..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo could practically feel the Initiative Die rolling in his
      head as he unleashed his Readied Action.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Also: BONUS OMAKE! (Warning: SPOILERS
      AHEAD)</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Q: What if Milo were transported to Robert
      Jordan's</strong> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">The Wheel of Time</strong></em>
      <strong class="calibre8">instead of the Harry Potter universe?</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">A: The</strong> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">Eye of the
      World</strong></em> <strong class="calibre8">would look like this:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wolf-headed Trolloc reached at him with its horrid, barbed
      catchpole in an attempt to pull him from his Mount.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust!</em>" Milo shouted, and the surrounded
      Shadowspawn recoiled, blinded by the sudden light. "<em class="calibre7">Ha!</em>"
      he said exuberantly, "and <em class="calibre7">that's</em> why you don't send a
      horde of mooks to catch a caster! Fear my Arcane sparkles,
      Shadowspawn!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In an instant <strong class="calibre8">—</strong> less than a Standard Action,
      for certain <strong class="calibre8">—</strong> Milo found himself pulled from his
      horse and slammed into the hard earth. Lan's curved blade was held
      against his neck, his foot pressed down Milo's chest. Milo's
      companions were staring at him in horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Male channeler," he heard somebody whisper, while another added
      "The Dark One and all the Forsaken are bound in Shayol Ghul, bound
      by the Creator at the moment of creation," and trailed off. Moirane
      stared at him, an unreadable expression on her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is shielded," she said quietly. "But to gentle him, here,
      would light a beacon for halfmen leagues in every direction." Lan
      gave her a brief, questioning look. Moirane shook her head, and he
      withdrew his blade. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," she
      murmured. "There was no forseeing this. He is a part of the
      Pattern, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Several Thousand Pages Later:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Graendel did it," Milo said. "I just used a <em class="calibre7">Limited
      Wish</em> to <em class="calibre7">Speak With Dead</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Even More Thousands of Pages Later:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre7">Gholam</em>, immune to the Power and capable of
      recovering from any injury, charged at Mat and Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Light!" Mat said, barely avoiding the <em class="calibre7">Gholam</em>'s
      boneless grasp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Disintegrate</em>," Milo muttered. The assassin crumbled
      into dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blood and bloody ashes, what <em class="calibre7">was</em> that?" Mat asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dunno," Milo shrugged. "Don't care. <em class="calibre7">Locate Object</em>
      <strong class="calibre8">—</strong> <em class="calibre7">Bowl of the Winds</em>. We turn left,
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Circa</strong> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">The Gathering
      Storm</strong></em><strong class="calibre8">:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Widened Fireball</em>," Milo cast, and hordes of
      Shadowspawn – Trollocs, Draghkar, and Myrdraal alike – fell to his
      fire. "<em class="calibre7">Cloudkill</em>," he said, and hundreds more died. He
      only had to hold the line for a few more rounds… the Lord Dragon
      had promised. Help <em class="calibre7">was</em> coming – right?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo felt, rather than heard, the Fade behind him. The Conjurer
      whirled, ready to send the Halfman back to its master, when its
      black blade was abruptly sheared in half – as was most of the
      unfortunate Myrdraal, as well. Rand stepped out of the Gateway,
      staring at Milo with his steely gaze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What you have wrought here was not <em class="calibre7">saidin</em>," he said
      simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I've been trying to say this whole time," Milo
      said, wasting a Fist of Trollocs with a <em class="calibre7">Silent Fireball</em>.
      "But nobody here ever listens to <em class="calibre7">anyone!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have only met one channeler who did not use <em class="calibre7">saidin</em>,"
      Rand continued, oblivious to Milo's words. "<em class="calibre7">Forsaken</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Wai—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rand channeled balefire without a second thought.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
