<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 26: Bluff Checks, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s23" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 26: Bluff Checks</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: last chapter's Wheel of Time joke-section (it's
      not meant to be taken seriously) was rather a lot of fun, and
      fairly well received, so I might do more in the future. We'll see
      how things turn out. Sorry for the long delay, but it should be the
      last missed weekend for a while—I haven't got any assignments worth
      mentioning due until mid-November. Updates might become erratic
      around then. Apologies in advance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Update Nov 3rd: Hello all you HP:MOR readers! It just came to my
      attention that Eliezer Yudkowsky/Less Wrong recommended me on his
      blog on Thursday and a number of new readers have arrived because
      of that. Which is awesome. Enjoy! Although I think "Rationalist
      Fanfic" is somewhat of an exaggeration (albeit one that makes me
      happy) and that "Rationalist-<em class="calibre7">inspired</em> Fanfic" is more
      accurate because, well, anyone who's met Milo likely won't be
      immediately struck by how <em class="calibre7">rational</em> he is. Is Irrationalist
      Fanfic a thing? /ramble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In other news, there won't be an update tomorrow because of an
      essay due Monday, but I think with some re-shuffling we can avoid
      the Great Schedule Slip of October from re-occurring. I tend to
      leave my homework for weekends, which is <em class="calibre7">also</em> when I do my
      writing. So. As an experiment, I am going to try switching the
      update day to <strong class="calibre8">Thursdays.</strong> That way, if I can't find
      time in the weekend to write, I won't just give up on the update
      altogether. Whether there will be one this Thursday is only 50-50,
      because of Good Reasons I Swear, and Why Are You Looking At Me Like
      That? Stop! I'm Trying Real Hard And The Next Chapter Will Be Real
      Soon Now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Update November 26th: Okay, so here's the deal. I'm starting to
      think I have the mythical Writer's Block. I <em class="calibre7">know</em> what's
      going to happen next—it's all been planned out for <em class="calibre7">ages</em>.
      From the beginning, basically. But, when I'm actually staring at
      the screen and keyboard, every sentence I write has to be forced
      out with far more effort than it should take. I'm writing this fic
      for fun, after all, and every draft of Chapter 27 has been, well,
      atrocious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So. I don't know when the next update will be, and I'm
      <em class="calibre7">so</em> sorry. It will happen at some point, and that's a
      promise, Mister Frodo. Probably in January between terms, but I
      can't know for certain. I haven't had to deal with this before, and
      this is a <em class="calibre7">decidedly</em> inconvenient time for it to strike
      what with all the new readers coming and all. But. I'm sure most of
      you know this, but if you hit "subscribe" then you'll be the first
      to know when my block is gone and I stop rolling 1's on Craft (Epic
      Fanfic) checks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To re-iterate: I'm <em class="calibre7">so</em> sorry. I'm doing my best. But the
      more I worry about the late update, the more the update feels like
      work, and I worry about it <em class="calibre7">more</em> and want to do it
      <em class="calibre7">less</em> and vicious cycles suck. So I need to do some other
      stuff for a while and avoid thinking about my beloved story, then
      come back with gusto. And when I do, it'll be epic. I have Very
      Cool Plans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was being chased. He couldn't see it, or hear it, but he
      knew. He wasn't sure what it was. The forest was full of nothing
      but silence, not even the rustle of leaves caused by a bird or
      squirrel. That was his first clue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor? Are you... all right?" The villagers—Muggles, all of
      them—spoke fearfully, when they'd had too much to drink, of...
      <em class="calibre7">something</em> in the woods. When pressed, they'd laugh it off
      as silly superstition and change the subject. But a slight
      hesitation in their laughter, a tightness around their eyes...the
      fear was real. The...<em class="calibre7">thing</em> might be imaginary, but the
      fear was real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could help them. He'd known it. It had been a chance to prove
      himself, to get some real field experience. Lessons and books were
      all very well, but he'd been ready for something more. He'd thought
      it was vampires, in the woods. After all, what could be more
      frightening than vampires? It would explain the Muggles'
      reactions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why is he handcuffed? <em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em>." And now, he was
      being chased. And it was gaining on him. It wasn't a vampire. He
      thought...he might know what it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he needs help; we should bring him back to the
      castle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd forgotten. They'd all forgotten, wizards and witches
      everywhere had buried their memories. Because there was something
      worse than vampires. Worse than Dementors. They'd tricked
      themselves into thinking it was gone. That <em class="calibre7">he</em> was gone.
      But now, Quirrell knew better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how do you reckon we do that? You have a cart hidden under
      your robes, Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Worse, he knew a way to be free. But he couldn't even allow
      himself to <em class="calibre7">think</em> about it, because it...because
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> was always listening. Always. So he had to be careful.
      He would bide his time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Quirrell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The use of his name jerked him back into the present. He sat up,
      and his hand immediately went to his head as the world spun.
      Quirrell opened his eyes and stared at a worried face. A worried,
      bespectacled face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A worried, lightning-scarred face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He recoiled instinctively, a sudden, unreasoning hatred filling
      him to the core. Quirrell steadied himself with effort; he was used
      to the mood swings now, had learned to recognize which emotions
      were his and which came from...<em class="calibre7">him</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-mister P-P-Potter," he stammered with his accursed stutter.
      It had been an act, once, to reduce suspicion. But his act had
      slipped once too many times, and <em class="calibre7">he</em> had seen to it that it
      was no longer an act. Quirrell shuddered at the memory. "W-where am
      I?" That <em class="calibre7">was</em> unusual. The last he had remembered, he'd
      been planning to take the boy to dispatch some of his tame
      vampires. <em class="calibre7">He</em> still had several connections in dark places;
      the filthy creatures in their cave likely still thought he was
      bringing them the child as blood tribute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The smirk died on his lips when he realized what must have
      happened. Suddenly finding himself in an unknown location with no
      memory of how he got there? There were two possibilities. One, he'd
      been Memory Charmed. Possible, but unless one of these half-trained
      children was secretly a Metamorphmagus Auror—or maybe a Polyjuiced
      Death Eater—he doubted they had the power. The other...<em class="calibre7">he</em>
      must have taken direct control. There could be no telling what
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> had done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're...not sure, to be honest, Professor," Potter said. Again,
      another man's—could <em class="calibre7">he</em> still be called a man?—rage filled
      him. "We thought you might be able to tell us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what has h-happened?" Quirrell was, frankly, surprised. Had
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> taken over, he was sure the first thing he'd have done
      was finished off his mortal enemy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The four children all began a disjointed story, each starting at
      different places and clamouring over each other, but Quirrell
      managed to piece together what, more or less, they were trying to
      say regardless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-so you s-say D-Death E-Eaters t-took him?" Quirrell frowned.
      <em class="calibre7">Death Eaters?</em> That hadn't been part of the plan. Had
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> changed it, without telling him? There was no way for
      him to tell, their peculiar bond was very much one-sided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I don't see <em class="calibre7">how</em>," Granger said somewhat
      petulantly. "You <em class="calibre7">can't</em> Apparate or Disapparate within the
      Hogwarts wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-we m-m-must be outside them," Quirrell said. "They d-d-don't
      q-quite cover the f-far edges of the F-Forest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should tell Dumbledore right away," Granger insisted. "He'll
      know what to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good thinking," Potter agreed. "Professor, can you walk?" At
      the mention of the Headmaster's name, he felt a sudden spike of
      fear through the bond. It always surprised Quirrell that even one
      such as <em class="calibre7">he</em> could feel something so human as fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-no," Quirrell said hurriedly. How was he going to talk his
      way out of this one? He wondered when the last time he'd said
      something completely true was. "W-we can't t-tell the H-Headmaster
      j-just yet. D-Dumbledore, f-for all his v-virtues, is overly
      trusting. H-he will c-certainly t-tell Snape, and your P-P-Potions
      M-Master will g-go running to his r-r-real master."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See?" Weasley said. "I <em class="calibre7">told</em> you he was up to no good."
      Granger coloured slightly, but said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't just do nothing!" Potter said. "He's in danger." Abbot
      nodded fervently in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I d-don't p-propose we d-do <em class="calibre7">nothing</em>," Quirrell said.
      "j-just let m-me handle it. D-don't talk to D-Dumbledore. In
      f-fact, d-don't let anyone know you w-were out h-here at all."
      <em class="calibre7">He</em> was feeling increasingly impatient, and it did not do
      to keep <em class="calibre7">him</em> waiting. "W-well, if we're r-really outside
      the w-wards, we'd b-best start h-heading back. It c-could q-quite
      s-some time." Time they certainly didn't have. If the Death Eaters
      were brazen enough to abduct Milo this close to Dumbledore's seat
      of power, they really were active again. <em class="calibre7">So Lucius is taking a
      hand in events again</em>. It had to be him. No-one else had the
      power and drive to unite <em class="calibre7">his</em> followers who had managed to
      keep out of Azkaban. Quirrell was somewhat surprised that they had
      been able to manage even this; he had understood that the best and
      brightest of <em class="calibre7">his</em> followers lay rotting on the island.
      Where, he was quick to remind himself, he was certain to go if his
      true nature was revealed. But...why would they bother? Was it to
      bring <em class="calibre7">him</em> back? But the boy couldn't even manage that,
      yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or so he said, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the way back to the castle, they passed a large group of dead
      Acromantulas, of all things. It only took Quirrell a glance to
      determine what had happened. Something had caused the horrid beasts
      to turn on each other, but, judging by the pristine corpses lying
      <em class="calibre7">above</em> the mangled ones, one or more wizards had finished
      off the lot with the Killing Curse. Must have been Lucius and his
      cronies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time they reached the castle, it was well past curfew,
      and after sending the children to their Common Room, Quirrell's
      footsteps echoed ominously in the hallway alone. He had long since
      grown out of fearing the dark, but all the same... he couldn't
      shake the feeling that he was being hunted. Worse, now that he was
      finally alone—as alone as he could ever be, now—<em class="calibre7">he</em> could
      speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You lost the boy... were overpowered by an eleven year
      old...</em>" That was enough to trigger the memories. The Memory
      Charm that had been placed upon him was a weak one, from someone
      whose talents clearly lay in other directions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dozen excuses came to mind in an instant: that the boy had
      powerful magic was the <em class="calibre7">reason</em> they were interested in him,
      that he would have simply told the Death Eaters he was as good as
      being the Dark Lord before <em class="calibre7">he</em> had prevented him, that
      there were six of them and only one of him—but he had learned,
      painfully, that <em class="calibre7">he</em> did not accept excuses. You simply
      waited, and hoped <em class="calibre7">he</em> would forgive your failures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I'm sorry, m-my l-lord. Y-you know w-what happened, I h-have
      n-no excuse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No, you don't... but you will have this opportunity to
      redeem yourself... am I not merciful?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell felt a rush of relief that was wholly his own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes, my l-lord." <em class="calibre7">He</em> explained to him his plan as
      Quirrell hustled to Dumbledore's office, listening carefully. It
      was a daring move; much could go wrong—and he would be the one to
      have to modify it on the fly as circumstances changed. No plan
      lasted much longer than the first contact with the enemy.
      <em class="calibre7">He</em> could take over his—<em class="calibre7">their</em>—body directly, but
      only for brief periods of time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sherbet Lemon," he said to the gargoyle statue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore—again, that sudden rush of hate, spiked with fear—sat
      behind his great wooden desk on a comfortable-looking chintz
      armchair. As Quirrell entered, a glowing silver doe patronus he had
      never seen before was leaving, presumably having delivered a
      message of some sort. He glanced at it briefly, frowning. Quirrell
      himself had been unable to produce one since... <em class="calibre7">he</em> had
      arrived. Could it be coincidence, the doe arriving on the same
      night Lucius made his move? It must be. Surely, someone as powerful
      as the Headmaster received messages of all sorts at every hour of
      the day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, Quirinus," Dumbledore said, sounding genuinely pleased to
      see him. Quirrell tried to fight down <em class="calibre7">his</em> borrowed
      emotions with limited success. "What brings you here at this
      hour?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was vital that the Headmaster not discover what Lucius had
      done, because <em class="calibre7">he</em> was still unsure about the
      possibly-former Death Eater's loyalties. He might still be useful
      in the future, but not if he were rotting in Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo is g-gone," Quirrell said simply. "V-vampires t-took
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy frantically rubbed the blinding particles out of
      his eyes as he surveyed the carnage that had been wrought in the
      dining hall of his country manor. Some form of skeletal abomination
      held Nott by the neck with a single overly long arm, and was
      closing in on the Carrow siblings with a speed that belied its
      appearance. Crabbe, Goyle, and Macnair were still nowhere to be
      found. Gibbon and Avery were trapped in some form of giant
      <em class="calibre7">web</em>, of all things, which had appeared from thin air near
      the centre of the room. Lucius had worked too long and too hard to
      unite those servants who remained free to lose them to this
      <em class="calibre7">boy</em>. It was time to finish this; the fight had gone on
      long enough. The situation demanded it—nobody would argue with him
      on that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra!</em>" The boy, who was flying around in
      circles dodging curses, whirled around with an expression of
      genuine fear as the Killing Curse flew towards him. The fear was
      just as swiftly replaced by a grin as he muttered something under
      his breath; without any form of show or sign of magic, he was gone.
      The skeletal nightmare stood—or rather, floated—in his place, and
      simply dropped out of the air. The foolishly-named "Unforgivable"
      Curse, impossibly, exploded against its ribcage harmlessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">How...?</em> No time to think. The monster crashed into
      Jugson, who crumpled with a scream underneath its bony bulk. The
      boy re-appeared where the skeleton had earlier stood, with a
      surprised Nott on one side and Amycus and Alecto Carrow on the
      other. All three lowered their wands at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They would have to handle the boy, Lucius had other concerns.
      The boy's tame pet defenestrated Jugson's body with, if it had had
      a face, he was sure would have been contempt—and came loping
      straight at him. Between the thick webs, the ruins of his
      centuries-old table, and the writhing trapped Death Eaters, Lucius
      struggled to get a clear shot. He heard a pair of loud booms, six
      seconds apart with almost musical precision, from the other side of
      the room. The skeleton leaped, and Lucius realized he only had time
      for one last Killing Curse. He would have to give it everything he
      had if it could so contemptuously ignore the earlier one. He began
      the practiced motions—despite its power, the Killing Curse required
      only fairly simple wandwork—but stopped. There was no guarantee a
      second Unforgivable would have any more effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Petrificus Totalus</em>!" The nightmare struggled vainly as
      its arms and legs snapped to its sides, and it crashed into his
      polished mahogany floor, scoring it with deep gouges that would
      cost a small fortune to repair. He spun around to find the Carrows
      and Nott in a tight cluster, cowering before Milo's outstretched
      left hand. Somehow, they'd all managed to lose their wands—no.
      Nott's was at his feet, but the Carrows' wand hands were bleeding
      from toothpick-sized-splinters; Lucius was willing to bet galleons
      to knuts that those were all that remained of their most prized
      possessions. <em class="calibre7">If we survive this</em>, he decided, <em class="calibre7">we're all
      going to start carrying two or three spares.</em> Ollivander rarely
      made two of the same wand, but with the right application of
      pressure... well, everyone had a limit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give it up," Lucius said. "It's over." He would still try to
      escape—Milo, from what he had seen, was nothing if not
      tenacious—and Lucius would kill him in the attempt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it?" Milo replied, his voice nothing but confidence. Merlin,
      the boy didn't even look tired! "I could have shattered their heads
      as easily as their wands. I still can. Drop it, Malfoy, and I'll
      let you live."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Can he?</em> Lucius wondered. He'd seen the boy do the
      impossible—<em class="calibre7">he can fly</em>, he thought with amazement—but if he
      could simply kill them all... why hadn't he? What's more, why
      hadn't he already destroyed Lucius' eighteen-inch elm wand like
      he'd done the Carrows'? And Nott. His wand was still fine. It
      seemed absurd, but if Lucius had to guess, he'd say... well, the
      boy was <em class="calibre7">out</em> of magic. As if such a thing could happen. The
      boy was bluffing! Lucius cursed himself inwardly. The situation
      could still be salvaged, however, as long as nobody else realized.
      Other masked Death Eaters were moving to surround him, wands drawn.
      A slightly wild look about the eyes was the only sign that Milo's
      confidence was cracking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The moment you try," Lucius said slowly, "we'll kill you. There
      are seven of us," No use counting the de-wanded Carrows, "and one
      of you." Nott, who had grabbed his wand as soon as Milo's back was
      turned, and the six remaining active, armed, and unimpeded Death
      Eaters moved to surround him. Most had been hiding around the edges
      of the room, as if to escape the notice of this <em class="calibre7">child</em>.
      Cowards. All he had were the dregs; the best—well, all but the
      <em class="calibre7">very</em> best, of course—had gone to Azkaban. The best, and in
      many ways, the most foolish. He had little more than contempt for
      those who confessed to the Wizengamot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well, there were thirteen of you a moment ago," the boy
      spat. "And none of <em class="calibre7">you</em> can come back from the dead." He
      addressed Lucius's followers, now. "How many of you do you think I
      can kill before I go down? How many of you are wondering what
      happened to your three guards, in the halls?" The fool's desperate
      bravado was playing right into his hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be that as it may," Lucius said, raising his wand. "I think I
      will be doing the world a favour in k—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>." A red Stunner hit the eleven-year-old's
      chest, and he crumpled to the floor with an expression of faint
      surprise frozen on his face. Lucius was aghast. He rounded on the
      fool who had cast, fighting down fury.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre7">idiot</em>!" he shouted. "What were you thinking!"
      Lucius paused. He'd nearly given away his plan. "He could have
      killed all of us!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he could have," Snape's oily voice replied from beneath his
      mask, "he would have." Lucius fought down his anger, the true
      reason for his rage could never be known. With a cool confidence he
      did not feel, he gave the necessary orders. There was much work to
      do to perform the ritual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell ducked into a side-room to make the necessary
      preparations, and also to catch his breath. He'd never had much of
      a talent for Apparition, and the distance from forest outside
      Hogwarts to Malfoy's manor had pushed his limit. His eyes barely
      registered the priceless Persian rug or the painted masterpieces
      hanging from the walls as he began casting. <em class="calibre7">He</em> had been
      very specific in his instructions when <em class="calibre7">he'd</em> taught him how
      to perform these spells. The price of failure—or of telling anyone
      the secrets—would be heavy. Too heavy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell glanced at a polished silver mirror hanging on the wall
      as he began. One spell to turn his eyes red, another to shroud him
      in darkness. One to change his face—he gasped as his nose turned to
      slits, like a snake's—another to change his voice, and a third to
      alter his robes. He suppressed a shudder, looking at the mirror, as
      he saw a near-perfect replica of the Dark Lord staring back at him.
      Wonderingly, he touched his now-unfamiliar face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somehow, Quirrell knew that these were <em class="calibre7">not</em> the spells
      the Dark Lord had used to appear like this. He hoped to never learn
      the truth of the matter. <em class="calibre7">He</em> had given him permission, in
      this one instance, to pose as his master. It was necessary. The
      fools who called themselves Death Eaters would fall in line
      immediately and turn over the boy they captured; Merlin knew why
      they'd done it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A pale, bony hand turned the brass doorknob—his hand, for now—as
      he stepped out into the hallway, wand in hand. Quirrell strode
      confidently down the hallway, past an unmoving Death Eater's
      body—dead or unconscious, he neither knew nor particularly
      cared—and, briefly, past a window. It was then that he heard the
      unmistakable <em class="calibre7">crack!</em> of a Disapparating wizard. Close to
      twenty of them, like an erratic staccato beat, followed by, of all
      things, the hoot of a barn owl. He looked outside and saw uniformed
      Aurors appearing all around the field, eyes wary for danger and
      wands held at the ready. But it wasn't the Aurors that caught his
      eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore led them, a brilliant phoenix riding his shoulder. A
      mad rush of terror swept through him, making his knees turn weak
      and his hand tremble. <em class="calibre7">How did he know to come here?</em> He
      wondered. He'd been certain the Headmaster had bought his story
      hook, line, and sinker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Dismiss the spells! Hide!</em>" <em class="calibre7">He</em> said. Quirrell
      did not need to be told twice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Finite!</em>" he cast. "<em class="calibre7">Finite! Finite! Finite! Finite
      Incantatem!</em>" One by one, the spells disguising his appearance
      ended, and Quirrell wrapped his purple turban back around his head
      with quick, practiced motions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It didn't work," Amycus said flatly. Lucius was stunned. After
      everything he'd gone through to avoid the ritual being performed
      with a living subject, he'd finally resigned himself to defeat only
      to be faced with... this. It was unexpected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Alecto mused, "she doesn't want to return?" They'd
      done everything right, he was sure of it. He knew that a single
      misspoken word could result in disaster, but when they'd completed
      the ritual the change should have been unmade.
      Instead...<em class="calibre7">this</em>. Milo stirred feebly on the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I somehow doubt we need their permission," Lucius drawled. "Or
      we never would have been able to summon him in the first place." He
      tried to keep the elation out of his tone. Like most in the magical
      world, he was hardly a religious man, but now more than ever he was
      certain that if there really <em class="calibre7">were</em> a God out there, he was
      on Lucius's side. He'd been given another chance to make his plan
      work. "In fact—" he cut off as he heard the hoot of a barn owl. The
      elaborate system of wards around his manor had, of course, nothing
      on Hogwarts—but it <em class="calibre7">did</em> tell him when someone Apparated
      onto the grounds. "It appears members of the law enforcement
      community have decided to pay a call. Gibbon, Avery—guard the
      prisoner and keep your heads down. The rest of you know what to
      do." With a series of cracks, the other Death Eaters vanished into
      thin air. This wasn't the first time the DMLE had decided to raid
      his manor, but they wouldn't find any more than they ever did. Oh,
      he always left a <em class="calibre7">few</em> minor illicit trinkets and dark
      objects around, anything else would be suspicious—but in the end,
      it would amount to nothing more than a slap on the wrist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius stepped out of the ritual chamber in his basement and
      tapped the door behind him with his wand. Wooden boards, curled up
      around the entrance, unfurled with a groan to cover the door. The
      gap in the wall was seamless; a Malfoy in the distant past had
      found an apprentice to the master wizard who had hidden Diagon
      Alley to do the job. Not even Lucius knew what had happened to his
      body, after he was done. None but his inner circle knew of this
      hidden chamber, and <em class="calibre7">nobody</em> still living knew the trick to
      opening it. Lucius transfigured his mask into oil (which he poured
      into a lamp nearby, he doubted anyone would ever find <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      when the spell wore off) and went out to greet Amelia Bones like a
      friend coming over for tea. He felt tremors in the floor along the
      way, but ignored them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell knew the plan needed changing. It always came to this;
      he'd gotten quite good at thinking on his feet. Despite what looked
      to him like half the Ministry's magical might knocking down the
      doors, <em class="calibre7">he</em> would settle for no less than complete victory.
      Quirrell cast a Disillusionment charm and shuddered as the icy
      feeling came over him. Before meeting <em class="calibre7">him</em> in the forests
      of Albania, he'd never had a knack for combat magic, but he'd
      <em class="calibre7">always</em> been good at these. Hiding was something of a
      specialty for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Strolling down the corridors of the richly-appointed house, he
      quickly found the small service staircase. The house rocked
      suddenly, but Quirrell had more pressing matters than the
      inevitable conflict between the Aurors and Death Eaters around.
      What the purpose of a staircase for servants in a wizard's house
      was, Quirrell had no idea (House Elves could simply snap their
      fingers and Apparate). The stairs led him through narrow corridors
      winding about in plain backrooms and servant's chambers (maybe the
      house had belonged to Muggles at some point, although it seemed out
      of Lucius's character to live anywhere that their touch had
      sullied) until he came to the otherwise unremarkable stretch of
      wall that <em class="calibre7">he</em> had directed him to. Quirrell tapped the wall
      with his wand, and was astonished to find a hidden doorway
      revealed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em>." The door behind popped open, and even
      <em class="calibre7">his</em> usual control broke. "Merlin's beard!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you can see," Lucius said to Amelia Bones, the head of the
      DMLE, while the two strode through the hallways of his mansion near
      his front entrance, "once again, my home has been attacked by the
      most brazen thieves I have ever seen. Fortunately, the timely
      intervention of the Ministry's finest has apparently frightened
      them off. I am, of course, eternally in your debt." Bones eyed him
      skeptically. He knew the aged witch had strong suspicions of him,
      but he <em class="calibre7">also</em> knew that she would never act on them without
      definite proof. Which was why men—and, of course, women—of
      principles always lost to those like him, who were free of such...
      constraints. Dumbledore, who had no official ministry standing,
      contented himself by waiting outside—for now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius led her towards his sitting room. "I'll have Dobby bring
      us some tea while your men search the house for the other thieves,"
      he said, opening the door. "Though I doubt you'll find—" shooting
      up through the centre of his luxurious room was a great oak tree.
      The floorboards were bent and buckled around it, as was the
      ceiling. "Merlin!" he gasped. He couldn't help himself. Even Bones,
      who was rumoured to chew iron ore and spit nails, widened her eyes.
      Tangled among the branches were Gibbon and Avery, struggling vainly
      to escape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both were still wearing their masks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones stared at the vista before her, shocked beyond belief. He
      knew he had to act quickly, or things could quickly
      become...embarrassing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius hesitated only seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Death Eater scum!" he gasped. "Call in your Aurors!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo picked himself out from among the leaves and branches and
      climbed onto the Malfoy manor' tiled roof. <em class="calibre7">Note to self:</em>
      never again <em class="calibre7">use a Tree Token as an elevator</em>. Being slammed
      facefirst into four stories of old, hard wood was <em class="calibre7">not</em> his
      idea of fun. He looked over the edge and sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least I'm not jumping through glass this time. <em class="calibre7">Feather
      Fall</em>."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
