<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 28: Grappling with the Rules, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s25" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 28: Grappling with the Rules</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Another short chapter – but at least I'm on
      time! This will continue until I get back into the swing of
      things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The locked door swung open without making a sound. Inside was a
      familiar, large, dark room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some lights all 'round, yeah?" Milo asked quietly. He'd do it
      himself, but he had to conserve his magic—even the cantrips—until
      the final confrontation. With no discernible limit (as far as he
      could tell) on the number of spells they could cast each day, Milo
      needed to rely on them to get him to Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that was the proper state of affairs. It felt <em class="calibre7">right</em>
      to him. All that solo adventuring? That was unnatural. Wizards,
      while hardly social creatures, <em class="calibre7">do</em> operate best in groups
      of less-arcane, more-giant-sword-wielding,
      possessor-of-the-mighty-thews, slayer-of-many-a-fell-beast, meat
      shields. Or, failing that, friends—Milo still couldn't believe he
      was using that term and meant it—with magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was like being in a party again. Even if it was a party
      entirely composed of squishy wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lumos</em>," Hermione and Ron muttered, and the tips of
      their wands began to glow like torches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin," Hermione said in a whisper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Milo agreed, staring into the room. This was
      <em class="calibre7">most</em> unexpected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room was empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Milo said. "That was most unexpected. I suppose they
      <em class="calibre7">haven't</em> gotten around to replacing the dog, after all.
      Shall we?" He gestured to the trap door that lay beneath where
      Fluffy once sat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Ron said idly, "I seem to remember this room being,
      well, <em class="calibre7">bigger</em> last time we were here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that you mention it," Milo said, "I think you're right. I
      mean, it <em class="calibre7">is</em> big—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—but not <em class="calibre7">that</em> big, you know?" Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. Weird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is <em class="calibre7">not</em> weird," Hermione said. "Honestly, haven't
      <em class="calibre7">any</em> of you <em class="calibre7">ever</em> read <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts: A
      History</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have, actually," Milo said. He'd <em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em>'d
      it a while back, but remembering things read in a flash like that
      was tricky, much like having a photograph shoved in front of your
      face, only to be yanked away again a second later. Sure, you
      <em class="calibre7">saw</em> the picture, but it doesn't quite sink in the same way
      as if you had carefully perused it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Space is somewhat... flexible in the castle, because of the
      sheer concentrated magic of the place" she explained. "Makes it
      easy to resize certain rooms with a powerful enough Enlargement
      Charm. They must have done so to fit the dog in—I mean, there's no
      earthly reason a <em class="calibre7">school</em> would have a random room big
      enough to hold a Cerberus, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I dunno," Ron said dreamily. "I can think of one or
      two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me guess," she asked. "Slytherin disposal chute?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, I was thinking, 'know-it-all containment chamber,'
      but your way works, too." After that, Ron fell silent and stared at
      the trapdoor. Their unimportant conversation was simply to put off
      the inevitable, and they all knew it. None of them knew what lay
      beyond that trap door, but one thing was for certain: there
      wouldn't be any more freebies like this room had been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grabbed the heavy wrought-iron ring of the trapdoor and
      pulled. It opened with an oily squeak which rang through the
      oversized, silent room. Through the trapdoor lay a deep, dark
      shaft. Ron reached down with his lit wand, which cast a pale white
      light on the walls of the shaft.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no bottom in sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Light</em>," Milo muttered, fetching a Knut from his
      pocket. The coin lit up, and with a sigh (Milo <em class="calibre7">hated</em>
      throwing money away, even other people's money) tossed it into the
      pit. They all leaned over and watched the bronze coin fall for what
      seemed like ages, before finally it ceased moving at what looked
      like <em class="calibre7">miles</em> underground. Of course, it was probably only
      <em class="calibre7">extremely</em> far down, and not quite as <em class="calibre7">ridiculously</em>
      far as it appeared, but one never knew when wizards were
      involved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A second later the coin went dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spell doesn't last very long, eh?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said slowly. "It lasts for hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what happened? Some sort of counterspell?" Ron asked,
      looking meaningfully at Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't look at me like <em class="calibre7">I</em> know the answer," she huffed
      indignantly. "If there's one thing we've learned, it's that none of
      us have <em class="calibre7">any</em> idea what to expect when Milo's magic
      encounters our own. I don't even know if a counterspell would
      <em class="calibre7">work</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she spoke, Milo noticed a brief glimmer of light from the
      bottom of the pit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's still on down there," he said. "It's just... covered by
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something moving, it would appear," Hermione agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't think... you don't think it might be spiders, do you,
      mate?" Ron asked shakily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," Milo said. "Can't be spiders."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's good," Ron said. "But, er, why can't it be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because we've already fought spiders too many times this
      campaign. I bet it's scorpions." Milo paused, thinking. He had
      fifty feet of silk rope (of course), but that hole as <em class="calibre7">far</em>
      deeper than fifty feet. Maybe, if they all jumped close enough
      together, he could <em class="calibre7">Feather Fall</em> them before the end? But
      what if there was something dangerous on the ground? Perhaps if
      they were <em class="calibre7">Feather Fall</em>-ing, one of them could hammer a
      piton into the wall near the bottom of the pillar and use it
      to—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right then," Ron said, and jumped in without hesitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a moment of crystalline silence, where Milo and
      Hermione stared at each other in absolute shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what are we waiting for?" she asked, her voice sounding
      somewhat strained. "We have to go after him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo swallowed, and they jumped in together. They were in
      complete darkness, save for the light of Hermione's wand and that
      of Ron's far below them, tumbling down an <em class="calibre7">impressively</em>
      deep pit. Milo, despite himself, lost track of how many increments
      of ten feet (and thus, how much damage he'd take upon landing)
      somewhere distressingly close to terminal velocity. Gritting his
      teeth, he shook his hands free of his sleeves and readied an
      action.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Feather Fall!</em>" he shouted, and the two of them slowed
      to a gentle drift barely a few feet before touching the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron!" Hermione shouted. "Ron, are you al—all right?" Milo had a
      sneaking suspicion of what Hermione was going to ask before she
      caught herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, I'm fine," came his cheerful voice. "There's this soft
      plant thing I landed on, it's lucky, really." Milo realized
      embarrassedly that he'd been so distracted thinking about Ron that
      he hadn't properly taken stock of his surroundings. Ron was lying
      on the ground nearby on a thick, green carpet of slender vines. The
      lit Knut was nowhere to be seen. "Dumbledore must have had this
      thing planted to keep people falling from being hurt. Mind, a
      mattress would have done, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No..." Milo said, thinking. That seemed wrong to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, Hermione shrieked. Snaklelike tendrils of vine, moving
      with deceptive speed, wrapped themselves around her legs to the
      knee. "It's Devil's Snare!" She shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, is that supposed to mean something to me—Merlin's
      Beard!" Tendrils pounced like a cat, and suddenly Ron was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap, crap crapcrap<em class="calibre7">crap!</em>" Milo swore, trying to avoid
      the vines. Despite his efforts, he found his muscles refusing to
      respond and his feet remained firmly planted (so to speak) to the
      ground. He fought down a groan. He had no idea what to do or how to
      move—he'd never understood the Grapple rules. <em class="calibre7">Nobody</em>
      understood the Grapple rules!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The vines managed to grab hold of Hermione's wand hand, and,
      while it looked like she was struggling to say something, they were
      covering her mouth as well. Oddly, they seemed to be largely
      ignoring Milo, who was still locked up with immobility. He frowned
      and tried to ignore Hermione and Ron's muffled screams as he
      focused on what the page(s) describing the rules looked in like in
      the Rulebook. If he could remember <em class="calibre7">that</em>, maybe he could
      remember what they said. He remembered a distinct lack of pictures
      or explanatory illustrations (that would require the initial
      writers of the Rulebook to understand the Grapple rules, and, of
      course, they did not). He knew his Grapple bonus was +2, but only
      because that was on his character sheet. He didn't know how that
      was calculated or even what it was used for. Maybe if he...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, screw it. <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>." He cast the spell, not at
      himself, but at Hermione. His magic effortlessly pulled her out of
      the tangled vines (one thing he <em class="calibre7">could</em> remember was that,
      while grappling, you 'can't move normally,' but being
      <em class="calibre7">Levitated</em> could hardly be considered <em class="calibre7">normal</em>, now
      could it?). However, the Snare seemed to have finally taken note of
      him, and a cluster of twisting tendrils jumped at him. Milo snorted
      and clubbed one of the approaching vines with his staff. To his
      surprise, the rest seemed to recoil in what seemed like
      <em class="calibre7">pain</em> and avoided him — for now. "Hermione!" Milo shouted
      at his newly liberated friend. "Do something smart—Aaaagh!" The
      vines jumped him in force, and Milo, for the first time in his
      life, wished he'd taken the Combat Reflexes feat. He was dimly
      aware that initiating a Grapple attempt provoked an Attack of
      Opportunity (AoO) from the defender, which, if it hit, negated the
      attempt. Evidently, this vine was capable of multiple attacks per
      round, but Milo could only make one AoO. Still unable to resist (he
      didn't even know what check to make to begin to do so), the vines
      effortlessly lifted him from the floor bodily and pinned him up
      against the wall. Cold, damp darkness coated him, shutting out most
      of the light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somehow, Hermione had managed to maintain a firm grip on her
      wand while being pinned. Hermione muttered a spell—Milo didn't
      catch the name of it—and a jet of pale blue fire launched out of
      her wand in a carefully controlled burst. Milo felt the vines
      immediately loosen from around him, and with relief he sagged to
      the ground. They retreated to the sides of the room and remained
      perfectly still, as if they were a normal, non-animated plant. He
      heard the ringing clink of a coin dropping, and his lit Knut
      illuminated the room. Ron was gasping for breath on the floor, but
      was otherwise all right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only then that Milo got a clear view of the Devil's
      Snare. Weirdly, the vines were streaked with a sickly, pale yellow
      and brown. Judging by the thick mat on the ground, they'd been
      shedding leaves for some time now, and dead tendrils coated the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weird," he muttered. Why use a plant-based trap if you weren't
      going to take proper care of it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you know?" Hermione asked, looking at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That the Devil's Snare is attracted to movement! The harder you
      struggle, the more it fights. I can't <em class="calibre7">believe</em> I forgot
      that, I feel like <em class="calibre7">such</em> an idiot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Yes, that's exactly why I wasn't moving. The very reason
      indeed." That must have been why the Devil's Snare only jumped him
      when he cast a spell—the movement had attracted it. "Why did it run
      away like that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fire," Hermione said. "It's scared of fire—we learned that in
      Herbology, remember? Actually, I'm amazed you forgot <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      and remembered how it senses prey, because that's <em class="calibre7">far</em> more
      obscure..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just slipped my mind for a minute," Milo lied. "Let's push
      ahead, eh? Villain to defeat, hero to save, all that."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
