<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 29: Check Mate, Mate, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s26" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 29: Check Mate, Mate</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, crap," Milo muttered. "That right there is a
      <em class="calibre7">Hell</em> of a lot of keys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were thousands of tiny golden, silver, and brass keys
      fluttering about the chamber, somewhat reminiscent of Golden
      Snitches—if the semi-sentient sporting equipment were somehow
      integral to solving the plot and defeating a powerful dark wizard.
      (Psh).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... what," Ron mused, "we have to find the right one? That's
      like looking for a, well, a key in a stack of keys. <em class="calibre7">Moving</em>
      keys. Blimey, this will take the rest of our lives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Assuming we could even grab them," Hermione added. "They're
      pretty high up there. <em class="calibre7">Or</em>, you know, I could save the lot
      of us a lifetime of searching, and just Alohomora the lock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brilliant!" Ron exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione raised her wand and aimed it at the door, but stopped
      abruptly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless, of course, <em class="calibre7">someone</em> wants to interrupt my spell
      to vent his or her paranoid delusions about how the door is
      <em class="calibre7">clearly</em> trapped," she said to no-one in particular. Milo
      felt his cheeks growing hot. "Or some crackpot, circuitous theory
      about Dumbledore's real, <em class="calibre7">secret</em> plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just open the damn door, Hermione," Milo growled. "There's no
      sensible reason that, if they had a charm or whatever that could
      stop Alohomora, they'd use it here and not on the first door.
      Clearly, it slipped the vaunted brain of our brilliant headmaster
      that Flickwick was handing out magical lockpicks to
      eleven-year-olds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, if you insist. <em class="calibre7">Alohomora!</em>" Nothing
      happened. Hermione frowned. "<em class="calibre7">Alohomora!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't it Alo-ho-<em class="calibre7">more</em>-ah?" Ron teased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, shut up, Ron. Anyone have another idea?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My Merlin-like powers of deduction suggest we try to find the
      key," said Ron. "Or, maybe Milo can use some kind of
      hitherto-unforseen door-opening spell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I could always Fly up there</em>, Milo mused, <em class="calibre7">but I
      wouldn't even know where to begin to find the right key</em>—
      <em class="calibre7">much less actually</em> catch <em class="calibre7">it. Besides, I need to
      preserve my magic for the BBEG.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stands to reason we should be able to get through without
      resorting to that," he said. "Quirrell and Harry obviously managed
      to get through here, right? They only had wanded magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good name," Hermione said idly. Her forehead was creased with
      thought, staring up at the keys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks. I figured some sort of differentiation was necessary.
      Ron, take a look around the room and see if you can find anything
      helpful—a clue, or maybe a piece of equipment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," he said, and started wandering around the labyrinthine
      room. Thick, heavy pillars broke up sightlines at irregular
      intervals, necessitating a manual search of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, I need you to make a Knowledge check."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pardon?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just sit and think about the room you're in. Does anything
      about this ring any bells? Do flying keys appear prominently in any
      local lore or children's legends?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked, then frowned, as if trying to remember
      something said in a conversation from a fortnight prior that only
      barely registered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Flying Keys were a pair of brothers who were famous pilots
      decades ago," she said, "but I doubt that has any bearing here."
      Milo, to whom a pilot was someone who navigated a boat into or out
      of dangerous harbours in foul weather, was unable to fathom how
      they earned such a nickname. He chose, however, not to inform
      Hermione to this particular fact. "Other than that... no. I've got
      nothing. However, we can probably assume the key was made to match
      the lock, correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm. That depends. If the builder wanted to keep us out, the
      key would have no obvious identifying features whatsoever, and only
      be determinable by, say, a custom spell. No, scratch that. If he or
      she <em class="calibre7">really</em> wanted to keep everyone out, there wouldn't be
      a door. You don't build doors to keep people <em class="calibre7">out</em>—that's
      what walls are for. The door could be some sort of trick... maybe
      it's a con. A shell game. <em class="calibre7">None</em> of the keys fit. This room
      was created to delay intruders until a crack team of Aurors can
      arrive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't be," Hermione countered. "Quirrell and Harry got through
      ahead of us, so there must be <em class="calibre7">some</em> way through. Maybe it's
      a test?" she suggested. "You can only pass if you can figure out
      the puzzle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But <em class="calibre7">why</em>?" Milo asked. "I see two possibilities: this
      dungeon is either some sort of test of worthiness, or it's designed
      to keep anyone out who doesn't know the trick to entering. In the
      first case... why bother? If they wanted to give the Stone to
      someone worthy, Dumbledore and Flamel could just work together and
      pick someone, avoiding this hassle. In the second case, and it's
      designed for only a select group of people to enter—say,
      Dumbledore, Flamel, maybe McGonagall—then why have any clues at
      all? Everyone in the group knows the trick. Anything and everything
      observable in the dungeon, therefore, is designed to throw
      intruders off the trail to it. It's just as likely that
      <em class="calibre7">none</em> of the keys work, and there's a secret password or
      lever—or a hidden door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My point still stands. Quirrell figured it out, remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless..." Milo used a dramatic pause as cover to reach into
      his Belt. "<em class="calibre7">Gotcha!</em>" he shouted, flinging a handful of
      garlic powder directly behind him. "Crap," he sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me guess," the corners of her lips twitched slightly. "You
      assumed he was hiding under the effects of a Disillusionment Charm,
      waiting for <em class="calibre7">us</em> to open the door so he, being a dastardly
      villain, could follow us through?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Maybe. But it was a perfectly reasonable guess, and if you
      say one word otherwise, please be reminded that <em class="calibre7">I know where
      you live</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's one more thing we haven't considered," Hermione said
      slowly. "Maybe Quirrell <em class="calibre7">is</em> one of this alleged group, and
      knows the trick?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... crap." It made sense. Quirrell was the DADA Professor,
      after all. If they were going to build a big dungeon to keep out
      dark wizards in their castle, who <em class="calibre7">else</em> would you ask for
      help? Of course Quirrell knew the way through this room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey!" Ron shouted from across the room. "You'll never guess
      what I've found?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A secret door?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Treasure?" Milo said at the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither!" Ron said. "three Comet Two-Sixties!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap. Crap. <em class="calibre7">Crap</em>." Milo was still unable to get a
      broomstick to respond to his presence <em class="calibre7">at all</em>, and Hermione
      was hardly any better. A quick glance at Hermione's face revealed
      she didn't relish the thought of flight any more than he did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And they've been slashed to pieces!" Ron added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, thank <em class="calibre7">God</em>," Hermione said explosively, releasing a
      long-held breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what were you two talking about? Figure out what we're
      supposed to do, yet?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh..." Milo said. "Sort of. We determined the door is trapped,
      and that none of the keys fit it... and that it's probably a fake
      and we have to beat a con man at a shell game, or... something. It
      got kind of complicated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... I take it we're still clueless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, screw it. <em class="calibre7">Kelgore's Fire Bolt</em>." An obsidian-black
      shard of stone glowing red with heat burst from Milo's opened palm
      and flew towards the door at just under the speed of sound, arcane
      energy crackling around it like a comet's tail. As soon as the tip
      of the stone touched the ancient oak door, it exploded into a
      searing red ball precisely five feet across, leaving their vision
      flecked with purple specks. The door splintered, and charred chunks
      of wood scattered about the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin's left foot!" Ron cursed, rubbing at his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at the door, her face a mask of abject
      terror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are going to get in <em class="calibre7">so</em> much trouble," she
      quailed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever. We'll do the paperwork, update our character sheets,
      and face the consequences of our actions later—maybe. It's the
      adventurer's way. In the meantime, there's a dungeon to crawl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron cautiously poked a large chunk of ex-door with the remains
      of a Comet-Two Sixty. The solid-looking wood crumbled into ash at
      the gentle contact, scattering in the gentle draft created by the
      fluttering wings above.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," he said almost reverently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Evocation is generally underpowered," Milo said, "but, on
      occasion, it can have its uses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next chamber was lit only by the glow of the room before
      entering through the smoldering doorway. Milo could barely make out
      large, towering armoured figures with a vaguely humanoid shape
      standing in front of him, lined up like a phalanx. He took a
      hesitant step forward, and the instant that his foot touched the
      ground in the new room, his vision flooded white. His eyes took a
      few seconds to adjust to the vision in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What Milo had taken to be armoured soldiers were, instead, giant
      black chessmen (although, as an experienced adventurer, he refused
      to rule out the possibility that they were <em class="calibre7">Animated)</em>. They
      were carved to resemble armoured soldiers, weapons and all – except
      for their faces. Some of the pieces wore helmets, but the rest had
      blank, expressionless smooth surfaces in their place. As someone
      who had never seen a mannequin before, he found the sight
      distinctly unnerving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm an idiot," Ron said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, what?" Milo asked. He was missing something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll see. I'd bet my magic that we have to play our way
      across."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before jumping to any conclusions," Hermione suggested, "how
      about we test that? <em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>." She levitated a
      large chunk of door across the oversized chessboard. The black
      players seemed to ignore it, but as it reached the white line, a
      pale pawn leapt forwards at a diagonal and ran it through with his
      spear. Milo winced. He knew that stone weaponry took a -2 penalty
      to attack and damage, but, looking at the razor-sharp edges of the
      nearby black soldiers' gear, he doubted that applied here. The
      white pawn stepped back into his original position, looking no
      different than before save for a light dusting of ash. "Okay,"
      Hermione admitted. "we have to play our way across."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fortunately," Ron said with a slightly shaky grin, "I have
      something of an advantage here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why's that?" Milo asked, "because you happened to put maximum
      ranks in Profession (Chess Player)? And here I thought those were
      wasted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just watch. Milo, do me a favour and take the place of the left
      bishop? That's the one with the pointy hat and mace. Hermione, take
      the third pawn from the right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—" Milo protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just trust me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He <em class="calibre7">is</em> the best chess player in the school, remember?"
      Hermione pointed out lightly. "We had that tournament and
      everything. Still..." she stepped into the place of the designated
      pawn. "This does seem awfully specific."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It suddenly struck Milo that he'd completely forgotten that
      'chess' was on the Plot. Cursing himself, he reluctantly took the
      place of the bishop, who mutely stepped off the board to make way
      for him. Of <em class="calibre7">course</em> chess would come up here, at the end.
      The sheer number of times it had been mentioned would be
      mind-bogglingly <em class="calibre7">pointless</em> had there not been some sort of
      chess-related puzzle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about you?" Hermione asked Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm the king, of course. Just do what I say, and we'll be fine.
      I promise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reluctantly, Milo and Hermione agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After they had taken their places, a white pawn slid forward
      towards their side. Ron ordered one of his pawns forward, looking
      not <em class="calibre7">quite</em> as confident as he sounded. Milo noticed a
      somewhat wild look to his eyes, but, after seeing the white side's
      response (another pawn), he let out a deep breath and smiled, as if
      the white side had fallen for some sort of trap. After that, Ron
      began to below orders at a shocking pace. He barely waited for each
      piece to finish moving before moving his next one. The white
      pieces, driven by silent orders, responded immediately to each
      move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was surprised, to say the least. He knew Ron was good, but
      this... it was as if Ron were reading off of a script, knowing in
      advance what he would say each turn well before he spoke. The sheer
      amount of information he must be processing to give commands that
      quickly... either Ron had been holding out on a Headband of
      Intellect +10, or he had <em class="calibre7">no</em> idea what he was doing and
      simply giving orders at random.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo swallowed nervously as it came time to act. Despite Ron's
      confidence, they were losing pieces. A lot of pieces. There were
      only two pawns, aside from Hermione, still standing on their side.
      They'd lost their other bishop early on to what <em class="calibre7">had</em> to
      have been a sheer blunder — though Ron's confident, almost bored,
      expression never changed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Ron <em class="calibre7">was</em> a better player than he had ever been.
      Milo walked diagonally across the board, standing uncomfortably
      close to a white knight. The knight completely ignored his
      presence, sitting atop his pale horse, long white blade in hand.
      While he was fully aware that the knight could only move in a
      weird, L-shape (suddenly, the Cleric spell <em class="calibre7">Knight's Move</em>
      made a lot more sense to him), and that he was perfectly safe where
      he was standing, the sword still sent shivers down Milo's
      spine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rules of chess were clear: when a piece took another piece,
      the taken piece didn't have a hope of fighting back, even a mighty
      queen against a lowly pawn. So Milo wondered what would happen if
      he was hit by that sword and survived. Would the knight simply
      repeatedly stab him until satisfied? Or would the game carry on,
      ignoring his presence completely, as he bled out on the floor?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, meanwhile, was tapping her foot impatiently. She'd
      been almost completely ignored by Ron, only moving up to allow
      another piece to pass early on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A black castle stepped up and smashed the white knight off of
      his horse with a heavy, flanged mace. The knight's horse dragged
      its rider off the board, and then there was silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Check..." Ron said quietly. Then he drew a deep breath, letting
      it out explosively. "Mate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The remaining white pieces (the ones that could still stand,
      anyway) walked to the edges of the board and bowed slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you <em class="calibre7">do that</em>?" Hermione asked, throwing her
      arms around him in a hug. "That was <em class="calibre7">incredible</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was beginning to have suspicions at that point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron simply shrugged, looking a little embarrassed at Hermione's
      outcry. "I'd played the same game before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You... what?" Hermione asked, stepping back from him. Several
      pieces clicked in Milo's head so loudly he was surprised nobody
      noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I played against Quirrell, I was really playing the
      castle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He used his little tournament to find which of us were good at
      chess," Milo said with realization. "The wily
      <em class="calibre7">bastard</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">knew</em> chess had nothing to do with Defence!" Hermione
      exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. So every time <em class="calibre7">I</em> made a move, he'd go down here
      and make the same move against the castle, then use <em class="calibre7">its</em>
      move against me. Quirrell's likely rubbish at chess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the white side's just a spell," Milo murmured. "It doesn't
      have any creativity of its own, just an elaborate set of premade
      responses. So when you made the exact same moves against it..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...It made the same moves against me," Ron finished. "It was
      the hardest game I'd ever played—but I'd already done it and knew
      how it ended."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You put all that together just by seeing the chess game down
      here?" Hermione asked. Her eyes were a little wide. Milo was having
      to make some revisions in his mind, as well. There might be more to
      Ron than he had previously thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: When I came up with the chess trick Quirrell
      played on the party, I was <em class="calibre7">so</em> proud of myself. I went
      around congratulating myself all <em class="calibre7">day</em> for my own cleverness
      and ingenuity. Within five minutes of posting the chess chapter,
      however, a reader PM'd me, guessing <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> what had
      happened. I suppose some metagamers out there flagged any mention
      of 'chess' as suspicious, considering the dungeon crawl at the
      end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now I'm curious. Was Quirrell's trick <em class="calibre7">really</em> brilliant,
      or was it transparent? Leave a review saying if you'd called it in
      advance or were caught by surprise.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
