<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 30: Troll Wanted: Dead or Alive, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover f...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 30: Troll Wanted: Dead or Alive</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Milo opened the door a crack and peeked through. The room was
      pitch dark, but his sense of smell confirmed his suspicions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crap</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He, ever so quietly, closed the door and looked back at his
      companions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," he whispered. "So, there's a Troll on the other side of
      this door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His companions stared at him blankly for a few seconds, then
      cursed sulfurously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The same one as before?" Ron asked after venting for a moment.
      "If we're lucky, it'll be so scared of Hermione here that it'll lie
      down and play dead when we enter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be," Milo said, "But I wouldn't count our lives on that.
      Frankly... I'm not sure we can take him." The last encounter he had
      had with a Troll had proved definitely, dreadfully,
      defenestratively disastrous. He looked at his comrades, whose faces
      were ashen. They'd thrown everything they'd had at it, and it had
      still gotten away. Hermione and he had been seriously injured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" Ron said, his face brightening suddenly. "Milo can just
      blast it like he did that door!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah..." Milo said, "about that. That was kind of a one-off.
      Sorry, guys. What else have we got?" Maybe they should have tried
      to solve the last puzzle after all—the fickle being that ran the
      universe appeared to be punishing him for his brute force
      approach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we had a large quantity of dust, I suppose I could use
      <em class="calibre7">Ventus</em> again," Hermione mused. "But even that didn't
      finish off the last one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about a Hippogriff?" Ron suggested. "Like back at the
      Duelling Club. That Hufflepuff was in the hospital wing for three
      days—mind, I reckon he was just trying to skive classes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't prepare Summon Monster," Milo admitted, "but I have
      something that's <em class="calibre7">almost</em> as good for this. I only give it
      even odds of winning, though, so I suggest we run past it while
      it's distracted. Sound good?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not particularly," Hermione confessed, "But I don't see that we
      have any other option."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great. This spell takes six seconds to cast, so open the door
      for me at the count of five, okay?" Ron nodded, and moved to stand
      by the heavy, iron-studded wooden door. Milo rolled up his sleeves,
      adjusted his Arcanist's Gloves slightly, and began casting. Ron
      swallowed nervously, his hand on the doorknob.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Summon Skeletal Troll!</em>" The door flew open, and a
      towering nightmare of a figure appeared before them. Without
      pausing to look closer, Milo and the others bolted through the
      door, an almost-physical wall of putrid stench assaulting their
      noses. In the darkness, he heard someone gag, but kept running
      until he hit the far wall. Undead had Darkvision out to 60 feet, so
      Milo wasn't worried about his summoned monster. If anything, the
      undead Troll likely had the advantage over the living one in this
      lighting. Milo felt around at the wall that he was touching,
      searching for an exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he encountered a problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where in the Infinite Layers of the Abyss is the thrice-damned
      door?" he hissed quietly. It was so dark that he could barely see
      the blue-and-gold of his own gloves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lumos</em>," Ron cast, and his wand glowed, clearly
      illuminating the door—and them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No!</em>" Hermione shrieked, staring at the lit wand. She
      covered her mouth in horror, looking around nervously for the
      Troll. Milo prepared to launch a salvo of magic at the Troll that
      he was sure was about to fall on them like a landslide.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nevertheless, nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you said there was a Troll," Hermione whispered
      accusingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">smelled</em> a Troll," Milo said. "I just assumed there
      was one, too. I mean, it makes sense, right? This dungeon was
      probably made by the top Hogwarts teachers, each one making a
      single room—Professor Sprout did the Devil's Snare, probably—and
      Quirrell has this whole <em class="calibre7">Troll</em> thing going on, so I
      figured—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Found him," Ron said, the light of his wand revealing the
      unmistakable cadaver of an ex-Troll. "Big ol' bugger's dead
      already. Ruddy convenient, that is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps Quirrell killed him on the way in?" Hermione suggested.
      Milo shrugged, dismissing his skeleton with a casual wave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looks like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next room simply had a large table with seven mismatched
      bottles arranged on a thick tablecloth. As soon as they entered the
      room, purple flames appeared behind them, blocking their escape.
      Black flames guarded the door on the other side of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bugger," Ron muttered. "This has 'Snape' written all over it.
      We should have brought shampoo; any fire made by that git would
      probably bugger off in fright after one whiff of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look!" Hermione pointed at a small roll of parchment on the
      table. "<em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>." The roll floated over to
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not just pick it up?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All this talks of traps must be making me paranoid," Hermione
      confessed. "I felt I couldn't be too careful—especially if
      <em class="calibre7">Professor</em> Snape" (she shot a look at Ron) "had anything to
      do with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're learning, young grasshopper," Milo said sagely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm actually older than you are," Hermione pointed out. "I'm
      twelve, after all. You're only eleven."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ish," Milo corrected. "Eleven-ish. Birth date still unknown.
      Anyways, what's on the paper?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a puzzle!" she said, a smile growing on her face. "One of
      the potions will let us through, I just need to figure out which.
      It's brilliant—a lot of wizards haven't got an ounce of logic,
      they'd be stuck in here forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't say?" Milo asked. So wanded magic <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em>
      Intelligence-based after all. <em class="calibre7">Interesting</em>. <em class="calibre7">Very</em>
      interesting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The only catch is, three of the bottles are poison—the rest are
      wine, except for one that lets the drinker go back, of course—so
      it's important I figure out which is which. Now just give me a
      second. Let's see..." Hermione looked at each bottle closely, and
      re-read the parchment several times. "I've got it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We drink from the little one," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—we drink the smallest one!" Hermione finished. "Oh. How did
      you figure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quirrell must have drunk one when he went through earlier," Ron
      said. "Harry too, for that matter. The small one is clean and the
      others have all got dust on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But don't worry about it—a lot of the greatest wizards couldn't
      notice what's right under their noses, either," Ron said
      teasingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Interesting. It's not Wisdom-based, either. Could it
      be...</em> (Milo shuddered at the thought) ...<em class="calibre7">Charisma?</em> It
      would explain why Grabbe and Coyle were failing most of their
      courses, and why Voldemort was simultaneously the greatest dark
      wizard alive (<em class="calibre7">or possibly undead,</em> Milo thought, fingering
      a wooden stake in his belt) <em class="calibre7">and</em> had an impressive cult
      following. Dumbledore, too, for that matter (except for the 'dark'
      part). Fortunately, PCs were explicitly immune to the effects of
      high-powered Diplomancy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We... have a slight problem," Hermione said in a small
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's only enough for one of us," she said. "Hardly even
      that." She was right—the bottle was <em class="calibre7">tiny</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tiny... but full.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The potion must replenish itself," Milo pointed out. "Assuming
      Quirrell and Harry came through here—and everything we've seen
      suggests that they have—they <em class="calibre7">both</em> had to have drunk from
      that bottle, which is nevertheless full to the cork. So all we have
      to do is go through one at a time. The only question is..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which order do we go in?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was going to say, 'how long does it take to refill,' but
      yours is valid. The only <em class="calibre7">two</em> questions are: which order do
      we go in, and how long does it take to refill?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That, and 'what's on the other side, and does it want to eat
      our faces,'" Ron added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Our <em class="calibre7">three</em> questions are: which order do we go
      in, how long does it take to refill, and what's on the other side,
      and does it want to eat our faces? Oh, and, how about, 'did
      Hermione pick the right bottle, or will the first drinker turn blue
      and die?' So our <em class="calibre7">four</em> questions are: which order, how
      long, what's on the other side—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and does it want to eat our faces off—" cut in Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Right, and does it want to eat our faces off, and did Hermione
      pick the right bottle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Hermione said. "Didn't you say your robes made you fire
      proof? You had me set you on fire and everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fire <em class="calibre7">resistant</em>," Milo corrected in a pained voice.
      "And it's only rated against <em class="calibre7">regular</em> fire. Against fancy
      black fire? It depends: how much does the DM hate me? The answer?
      Probably a <em class="calibre7">lot</em>." Milo could still remember the disastrous
      'Use Spontaneous Divination to get Cleric Spells' fiasco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"DM?" Ron asked in a puzzled voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Disgruntled Mechanics. If you push the rules... sometimes, the
      rules push back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"O-kay. Let's pretend I never asked, and I'll pretend you're not
      completely daft."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough. How about you two play Fighter, Rogue,
      Wide-Mouth-Spiked-Pit-Trap to determine which of you goes first,
      and I'll chance the fire. The other one waits for the potion to
      refill and charges in to save us from whatever horrific fate we've
      found ourselves in. I'm thinking the giant squid that lives in the
      lake will figure in here somehow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hesitate to ask, but... Fighter, Rogue,
      Wide-Mouth-Spiked-Pit-Trap?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure. The Fighter Power Attacks the Rogue for quintuple the
      Rogue's HP, the Rogue uses Trap Sense and discovers and disarms the
      Wide-Mouth-Spiked-Pit-Trap, the Fighter has no skill ranks or good
      abilities other than Strength and Constitution and falls into the
      Wide-Mouth-Spiked-Pit-Trap. It's abstract, I know—for example, it
      assumes the theoretically possible but, in practice, impossible
      event of a Fighter engaging a competent Rogue in a fair combat—but
      really, when it comes down to it, it's just common sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, so just like Rock, Paper, Scissors, then," Hermione
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is this Rock, Paper, Scissors of which you speak?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, rock bends the scissors, the scissors cut the paper, and
      the paper... well, I guess it wraps around the rock," Ron
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd always assumed the paper was too flexible to be beaten by
      the rock," Hermione said. "Which is why it 'wins.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Psht," Milo muttered. "The paper is probably a scroll of
      <em class="calibre7">Rock to Mud</em>. It's the only explanation that makes any
      sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Regardless," Hermione cut in, "let's play, shall we? Milo,
      count us off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three... Two... One..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Paper!" Hermione said, at the same time that Ron said
      "Wide-Mouth-Spiked-Pit-Trap!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hooboy..." Milo muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, Ron won out with rock ("I assumed you'd think I was
      the sort of person who <em class="calibre7">always</em> chose rock, so while I was
      going to trick you by choosing scissors, I realized, you might have
      <em class="calibre7">guessed</em> that I'd use my cunning ploy and that what I
      should <em class="calibre7">really</em> be using is paper, but then I remembered
      your scores in History of Magic so, taking into account the fact
      that you were a brainiac, I <em class="calibre7">one-upped you again</em>, which put
      me right back to rock. Bloody brilliant, I say.") against
      Hermione's scissors ("I assigned each move a number—paper was one,
      rock was two, scissors was three—and divided the third line of
      Snape's riddle by three, because three there are three of us (if it
      came out to four, it would wrap around and would count as 'paper,'
      of course, and five would be rock) to simulate a random move, which
      would thus be impossible to guess.")</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha!" Ron exclaimed. "I win! Who's clever <em class="calibre7">now</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were <em class="calibre7">lucky</em>," Hermione stressed. "There's a
      difference. Just because you were right doesn't mean it was the
      smart decision."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Milo said. "Drink up, and let's go rescue Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's grin vanished immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, bugger. I forgot the prize was 'almost-certain grievous
      injury, with a side of dismemberment.' I should have lost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who's clever <em class="calibre7">now</em>," Hermione muttered under her breath.
      Milo didn't think that he was supposed to hear it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo walked over to the flickering black fire, feeling the heat
      rolling off of it. This was, oddly, reassuring—it was a weak
      implication that the fire did, well, Fire damage as opposed to
      something eviller, like Cold or Negative Energy. Or (Milo shuddered
      at the possibility) Level Drain. All things being equal, death was
      generally preferable to level loss. At least <em class="calibre7">it</em> was only a
      <em class="calibre7">temporary</em> inconvenience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beside him, Ron chugged the tiny bottle and shivered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's like drinking ice water," he said, and passed the empty
      bottle to Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll follow as soon as it refills," she promised. "Be careful,
      will you? If your theory is right, and each of the Heads of Houses
      and Quirrell made a room... well, this was the last one. Good
      luck." She looked like she wanted to say more, but decided against
      it and stepped back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Best take it at a run, you think?" Ron suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agreed. Ready?" Milo asked, backing up a bit so he could Run
      through the fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ready."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: When organizing a D&amp;D game, make sure to
      tell everyone to be there half an hour early. That way, you can get
      the obligatory incessant <em class="calibre7">Monty Python</em> quoting out of the
      way and still pick the lock on the ten-by-ten room containing an
      orc guarding a chest without running overtime. At <em class="calibre7">least</em>
      half an hour. Maybe an hour. A good hour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The way I picture it, in Milo's universe, this behaviour results
      in PCs reflexively referencing <em class="calibre7">Monty Python</em> (and <em class="calibre7">the
      Princess Bride</em>, <em class="calibre7">Lord of the Rings</em>, etc.) without
      really understanding why. Milo is cut off from his Player, but the
      behaviour is deeply ingrained in him nonetheless.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
