<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 31: The Man With Two Faces, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 31: The Man With Two Faces</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: For added realism, I rolled every die for this
      chapter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"T-try harder! L-l-look at the M-Mirror and th-think about the
      g-g-<em class="calibre7">good</em> and h-h-<em class="calibre7">healing</em> you c-c-could do with
      it! Your f-f-friend is c-counting on y-you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm <em class="calibre7">trying</em>, Professor! I can see myself using the
      Stone to cure Milo, but nothing else is happening! Are you sure
      this is how it works?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo landed with a roll on the far side of the fire, feeling his
      hit points drop by one. Just his luck that the fire—which turned
      out to be rather ordinary, after all—rolled a six for damage.
      Smooth darkwood in his left hand, right hand ready for casting,
      Milo quickly took stock of the room in the way that only an
      Adventurer could. Fine details were simultaneously ignored and
      calculated for gold piece value, plot-relevant details were filed
      away for future reference, and threats were evaluated
      immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sum value of all unattended items in the stark room was a
      paltry 37gp, 4sp, and 7cp—not counting a rather familiar mirror
      that he deliberately avoided looking straight at. Standing in front
      of the Mirror of Erised was a surprised looking Harry, who was
      staring at the newcomers in astonishment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a flash, Quirrell had his wand out and was standing directly
      behind the still-amazed Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Not good</em>, Milo thought. Quirrell could kill all three
      of them before Milo could get a single spell off, most likely.
      <em class="calibre7">Best get him talking.</em> Every <em class="calibre7">villain worth his black
      robes and skull necklace likes to monologue.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you've been trying to get at the Stone this whole time,
      have you?" Milo asked. "I asked around. You've been teaching Muggle
      Studies at Hogwarts for four years before you got the Defence job.
      Were you just waiting, gaining the trust of everyone around you?"
      The specific words were unimportant to his plan — all that mattered
      was that he got Quirrell talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-you <em class="calibre7">fool!</em>" Good start. When they start calling
      people fools, it generally means they're working their way up to a
      <em class="calibre7">magnificent</em> rant. "You th-think you have any
      <em class="calibre7">inkling</em> of m-my plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well..." It was all Milo could do not to smile. "Since you're
      going to kill us anyways... could you at least tell me what the
      deal was with the Acromantula in the Forbidden Forest back in the
      fall?" Milo had been <em class="calibre7">dying</em> to figure out what that was all
      about. Harry stood with his hands up, Quirrell's wand pointed at
      his temples.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were s-s-supposed to die!" Quirrell said. "You knew t-too
      much! You even t-t-told me—said it was <em class="calibre7">obvious</em> to anyone
      with a brain—that you, your f-f-friends, and D-D-Dumbledore had
      f-f-figured it out! So kind of you t-to b-bring them h-here, b-by
      the way. Everyone except that G-G-Granger g-girl, anyway." Milo
      blinked. Figured <em class="calibre7">what</em> out? He could barely remember that
      conversation having taken place, much less the subject matter.
      "S-so I l-l-let that h-halfbreed oaf f-find out I w-was k-k-killing
      the unicorns in the f-f-forest to g-get you out in the f-f-forest
      alone. It w-was p-p-perfect... the spider would k-kill you and
      m-make it l-l-look like an accident. V-very t-tragic, I'd s-say...
      what a p-<em class="calibre7">promising</em> student you were..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Quirrell</em> was killing the unicorns? <em class="calibre7">And now he's
      trying to get the Stone...</em> What was it Milo had said? That
      there were likely followers of Voldemort out there, each competing
      to bring their master back? So... Quirrell wasn't <em class="calibre7">just</em>
      trying to get the Stone for himself. He was a Death Eater as
      well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...But you didn't count on me to kill it?" Milo asked. Except
      he <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> killed it. Investigation had shown that the
      injuries he'd dealt it weren't nearly severe enough to finish the
      monster off. Everything pointed to a Killing Curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think <em class="calibre7">you</em> k-k-killed it? <em class="calibre7">Fool!</em> It was
      m-me!" Quirrell hesitated for a second. "I'd s-sworn n-n-never to
      mention this again, b-but... s-seeing as how I'm g-g-going to
      k-kill you anyways..." Milo couldn't help himself; he leaned in a
      little closer. "I t-tripped." Quirrell paused, and Milo heard Ron
      fighting down a laugh. "I w-was watching, under the c-cloak of a
      Disillusionment s-spell, w-when I s-slipped. The g-g-ground was
      unnaturally s-slippery" Milo grinned, despite himself. He'd cast a
      <em class="calibre7">Grease</em> spell, but hadn't imagined that he'd managed to get
      the <em class="calibre7">end boss</em> with it. "And the A-Acromantula h-heard me. I
      h-had n-no choice b-but to abort the p-plan, k-kill the spider, and
      Obliviate y-you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you had <em class="calibre7">plenty</em> of opportunities to try again,"
      Milo pointed out. "Why didn't... Oh. I see. After I told you how my
      magic works, you realized that <em class="calibre7">I</em> could be used to revive
      Volde— "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">D-don't s-speak his n-name</em>!" Quirrell shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You-Know-Who, then. So, you changed gears... the Duelling Club.
      The Vampires. They weren't to kill me, they were to get me XP."
      That was so backwards, it almost hurt Milo's head. "You
      <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> me to level up, to turn me into a Philosopher's
      Stone!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It w-was one p-plan of m-many," Quirrell shrugged, though Milo
      noticed his wand remained pointed directly at Harry's head. "It
      n-never h-hurts to m-make... backups."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So..." Milo could practically hear the gears whirring inside
      his head. It was like a scaled-down Mechanus in there. "You're also
      the one who possessed Hannah and me, I take it?" He asked in a
      deceptively cool voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For a Death Eater, you seem awfully afraid of your own master.
      You flinch every time anyone says <em class="calibre7">Voldemort</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think <em class="calibre7">I</em> am a <em class="calibre7">D-Death Eater</em>?" Quirrell
      said incredulously. "You h-haven't realized <em class="calibre7">anything</em>
      yet!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One follower of Voldy is much like another," Milo shrugged. "I
      don't know, and, frankly, don't care if you have some sort of
      internal naming scheme or hierarchy. You're all just XP waiting to
      be collected, when it comes down to it." While Milo was speaking,
      Quirrell reached up with his off-hand and began unwrapping his
      turban. Milo was unconcerned—it wasn't until the Professor's wand
      hand began moving that he had anything to worry about. At worst, he
      was trying to activate some sort of magic item, and from what Milo
      had seen, the local magic items were mainly to aid in household
      activities. At worst, all potatoes in a sixty-foot radius would
      magically peel themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am s-so much m-more than a m-mere D-Death Eater," Quirrell
      sneered, the turban falling to the floor. Harry cried out in pain
      suddenly, his hand going to his forehead. It came away bloody. "I
      am the a-avatar of the D-Dark L-Lord h-himself!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A horrible, hissing voice that seemed to come from
      Quirrell—though his mouth never moved—spoke suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Kill the newcomers... we only need the boy...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell's wand came up, but Milo was faster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Nerveskitter</em>," Milo said in harmony with himself as
      time bended around him, speeding his reflexes up slightly. Though a
      minor difference, all things considered, it was enough. "So, you're
      Lord Voldemort, eh?" Milo's raised his right hand, palm outspread
      and ready to cast. "They say you once murdered an entire family of
      Muggles. The <em class="calibre7">entire</em> family—cousins, cousins-in-law,
      grandparents, nieces, nephews. Everyone bearing the same surname.
      They say you did it just because a twenty-year-old and his new wife
      had a witch—a <em class="calibre7">mudblood</em>—for a daughter. They say you're
      more demon than man, that you sold your soul for dark powers. Some
      say you never had a soul to begin with. They say that merely saying
      your name aloud is enough to call your attention." Milo stared at
      the man standing in front of him, the man he had once trusted.
      Maybe he really <em class="calibre7">was</em> part demon, but templates came at the
      cost of all-important caster levels. "But, you know? People say a
      lot of foolish things. Once, I heard a Bard reason that, since
      wearing heavy armour reduced his Hide bonus, going absolutely naked
      would render him invisible." To an outside observer, it would seem
      remarkable that Voldemort would wait for Milo to continue before
      completing his spell. However, said outside observer was likely
      unaware that talking is a Free Action, and Milo could have recited
      <em class="calibre7">The Raven</em> in its entirety before allowing anyone else to
      act. "Really, when it comes down to it, your vaunted 'Dark Magic'
      is about as useful as a Fallen Paladin without your wand," Milo
      said. "It would be a shame if it were to, unexpectedly, say...
      <em class="calibre7">Shatter</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A noise like an elder wyrm roaring echoed through the room, and
      Quirrell's alder wand exploded into splinters. Harry, taking
      advantage of the confusion, dashed away from the Mirror to join Ron
      and Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-w-well," Quirrell stammered. Something felt wrong.
      <em class="calibre7">Very</em> wrong. "It w-would appear that I h-have b-been
      beaten..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked, then realized what it was: he hadn't got any XP.
      <em class="calibre7">Quirrell wasn't defeated</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he remembered what happened after the <em class="calibre7">first</em> time
      he'd seen the Mirror of Erised...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Twelve sapient creatures. Quirrell counts as two, leaving
      ten unaccounted for.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>!" Milo cast the spell, not at Quirrell,
      but directly to his right. Milo's primary usage of the spell was
      generally to blind everyone in the area, but this time, he wanted
      it for its <em class="calibre7">other</em> purpose: revealing invisible creatures.
      Sparkly arcane doom rained down, revealing five small, heavily
      armed creatures that Milo was all-too familiar with...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...Redcaps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Invisible Redcaps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crap</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The golden particles outlined the invisible creatures, each
      carrying a heavy sword like the one in the Forbidden Forest had.
      Milo guessed—though he doubted he could push Quirrell into another
      rant to confirm it—that that one had been sent by the Professor—no,
      by <em class="calibre7">Voldemort</em>—as part of his 'Level-Grind the PC plan.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The outlined ones will only be visible for 42 seconds!" Milo
      shouted to Ron and Harry. "Stun as many as you can—I'll deal with
      the <em class="calibre7">other</em> five!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right!" Ron said. "Stun them with what, exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know! Stupefy or something!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's fourth-year—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"JUST FIGURE SOMETHING OUT!" Three of the five glowing Redcaps
      had been blinded by the golden light, but the other two were
      advancing rapidly towards them. Milo could only guess what the
      other five were up to, but, fortunately, <em class="calibre7">this</em> was the
      fight he was made for. Enough of that one-on-one insanity.
      Battlefield control was a Conjurer's specialty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Web!</em>" Thick, sticky webs appeared in the area that
      Milo guessed the still-invisible Redcaps were standing. The beauty
      of the <em class="calibre7">Web</em> spell is that even if the targets manage to
      make their Reflex saves, it doesn't really help them all that much.
      They still get a host of penalties, and requires an
      <em class="calibre7">extremely</em> difficult Strength check to move at all—and even
      then, extremely slowly. That, and at Milo's level, it lasts for
      over an hour. It is generally considered the pinnacle of the
      Conjuration school—and on top of all of that it's only a <em class="calibre7">Second
      Level</em> spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo could hear screams of frustration from the trapped
      Redcaps—but that was no guarantee that he'd caught all five.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you smell any others?" Milo asked his familiar. Rats have a
      keen sense of smell, which is one of the reasons that he had picked
      Mordy as his companion. Mordy sniffed the air for a second, then
      nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eleven o'clock, 20 feet. One straggler."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Grease</em>." The thud and metal-on-stone clatter confirmed
      the hit. <em class="calibre7">Grease</em> would only delay the Redcap, not trap it
      entirely like <em class="calibre7">Web</em> had. Milo glanced around to see how his
      companions were faring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus!</em>" Harry shouted, and one of the Redcaps'
      sword went flying behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa!</em>" Ron cast immediately afterwards,
      catching the sword in midair and lifting it up over another's head,
      dropping (hilt-first) from five feet up. The Redcap moved to dodge,
      but was too slow and went down like a Sorcerer hit by a Greatclub.
      With one Redcap disarmed, another unconscious, and the other three
      still blind, there didn't seem to be any immediate threats, but
      Milo doubted that would last.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mirror Image</em>," he cast, and six doppelgangers appeared
      around him. The unarmed Redcap didn't seem to know when it was
      beaten, and lunged at Ron, his golden hands clenching around the
      redheaded boy's throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap!" Milo was out of attack spells except for <em class="calibre7">Acid
      Splash</em>, and he didn't even <em class="calibre7">want</em> to know what kinds of
      penalties could be incurred by shooting into a Grapple. He started
      running through a list of Divinations he could cast spontaneously
      that might be helpful, but Harry was faster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus!</em>" Ron went flying out of the Redcap's
      hands. <em class="calibre7">Brilliant</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus knocks
      away</em> whatever <em class="calibre7">the target his holding, not just wands</em>.
      Harry was already starting to think like a Munchkin; Milo would
      never admit it, but he felt somewhat proud of his party member.
      <em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em> didn't provide enough detail for Milo to be
      sure, but he imagined a look of dumbfounded astonishment on the
      ugly Fey's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that Milo had an Idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey <em class="calibre7">ugly!</em>" Milo shouted at the unarmed Redcap.
      "Worried about your lack of weapon? A <em class="calibre7">real</em> Redcap doesn't
      need one—after all, I killed your buddy <em class="calibre7">unarmed</em> back in
      the Forbidden Forest." Milo couldn't tell if the Fey understood a
      word he said, but it lunged at him nevertheless. The darkwood staff
      whirled, and smashed into the creature's temple with as much force
      as Milo could manage (so, not a lot, when it comes down to it). The
      creature recovered, and attempted futilely to punch Milo through
      the protection of his Robe of Arcane Might. The bony fist slid off
      of the magically-augmented uniform and Milo attacked again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's bet paid off. He'd gambled that the Redcap hadn't taken
      the Improved Unarmed Strike feat—Hells, <em class="calibre7">nobody</em> takes
      Improved Unarmed Strike—and, therefore, would give Milo a free
      attack every time he tried to do the same. Despite Milo's slender
      build and lousy BAB, with a pair of attacks for every punch from
      the Redcap—combined with his high AC and miss chance from Mirror
      Image—the Fey didn't stand a chance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Redcap fell to Milo's sixth blow, Mordy spoke again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alert! Enemy approaching at six o'clock!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Gods damnit!</em> Milo thought, whirling around. <em class="calibre7">It must
      be the one that I</em> Greased. He'd completely forgotten about it
      when he'd gone in to play Big Stupid Fighter with the other
      one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of Milo's doubles flickered and vanished as, presumably, the
      invisible Redcap slashed at it with his wickedly curved sword. Ron
      and Harry each cast a Disarming Charm, but, without knowing exactly
      where the Redcap stood, they went wide. This was becoming
      <em class="calibre7">far</em> too hairy for a Wizard as squishy as he. For a second,
      Milo considered using <em class="calibre7">Fly</em> to reach the safety of the
      ceiling, but realized that that would leave Harry and Ron—who
      lacked his (by this world's standards) preternatural healing
      abilities and resilience—vulnerable. Instead, Milo decided that
      he'd be better to leave the battle in the hands of a
      specialist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Summon Skele</em>—" halfway through the spell, the Redcap
      swung again, this time guessing the correct target. Milo tried to
      dodge, but only succeeded in mitigating the attack somewhat. The
      sword penetrated the spell-enhanced robes and drew a thick red line
      along Milo's chest, inflicting a hefty ten damage. He screamed in
      pain, and, falling to his knees, his concentration shattered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spell failed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo spat blood and looked around the room hazily. Harry and Ron
      were still futilely shooting Disarming Charms around the room,
      trying to catch the invisible Redcap. Quirrell was standing by the
      Mirror counting silently, of all things. Milo narrowed his eyes,
      and realized what was happening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Thirty-Nine... Forty... Forty-One...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Forty-Two," Milo breathed, terror rising. The magic sustaining
      the golden particles surrounding the five Redcaps vanished, and
      they vanished. Two were unconscious, but the other three...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Normally, Milo would simply spontaneously cast <em class="calibre7">See
      Invisibility</em> and <em class="calibre7">Fly</em>, then proceed to rain blows upon
      the Redcaps' heads from above. However, despite having only two hit
      points left, he was still the best-defended of his group. Further,
      from what Milo had noticed, the Disillusionment Charm didn't make
      the wearer <em class="calibre7">technically</em> invisible, merely extremely
      well-concealed. As such, <em class="calibre7">See Invisibility</em> would be
      useless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that Milo noticed a glimmer of movement near the
      black fire of the doorway. This was unusual, as the Redcaps were
      all invisible, and both Ron and Harry were nowhere nearby...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Incendio</em>," he heard a feminine whisper. A
      barely-noticeable jet of bluebell fire, the same hue as what had
      been used against the Devil's Snare, hit a distant corner of Milo's
      <em class="calibre7">Web</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course. Hermione. She was creeping along the side of the room
      near the door, with the <em class="calibre7">Web</em> spell between her and most of
      the Redcaps—and Quirrell—blocking vision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Duck</em>!" Milo shouted. Harry and Ron, too surprised to
      do anything but comply, hit the ground immediately. The webs began
      to burn quickly—magical webs, unlike mundane webs, are highly
      inflammable. As the violet-blue flames spread throughout the
      faux-spidersilk, Milo heard Hermione's voice again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">VENTUS!"</em> A colossal gust of searing-hot air slammed
      into Milo bodily, knocking him onto his back. This was shortly
      followed by a raging-hot bluebell inferno as strands of
      inexplicably-inflammable webs were sucked up by the whirlwind and,
      suddenly oxygenated, exploded into fire. "<em class="calibre7">Ventus! Ventus!
      Ventus!</em>" Hermione, through clever use of controlled bursts of
      air, managed to direct the flame to a certain extent, causing it to
      avoid Harry and Ron. Milo's magic robes protected him (and Mordy,
      with Improved Evasion, had little to worry about), but the Redcaps
      had no such luck. As the fires began to die out, Hermione threw
      both glass bottles of wine from the potions riddle into the middle
      of it, the alcohol spilling out as the containers shattered.
      Redcaps screamed in agony as their clothes and hair burned in the
      suddenly refuelled inferno.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin's <em class="calibre7">beard</em>," Ron breathed as the fires died down.
      Invisible burning figures were sprinting around the room, trying to
      put out themselves out. One by one they began to drop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo did some rapid counting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She only got five!" he shouted. "There's three more still
      conscious!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron whirled as he heard the sudden cracking of broken glass
      behind him caused by the heavy bronze-studded boots the Redcaps
      favoured crushing the remains of a bottle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expelli</em>—Argh!" Ron went down as the Fey clubbed him
      over the head with, fortunately, the hilt of his invisible
      sword.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre7">fools</em> thought y-you c-could d-defeat <em class="calibre7">us</em>?"
      Quirrell laughed. There was something in his voice—Milo cursed his
      low Sense Motive bonus yet again—that seemed a little...
      <em class="calibre7">off</em>. Like he wasn't quite sincere, maybe. "We are—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Frankly, Milo didn't give a damn what Quirrell was going to say.
      "<em class="calibre7">Fly</em>," he muttered, ripping the Amulet of Protection from
      Evil from around his neck. Behind him, he saw Hermione spin in
      surprise and start casting something, but the wand was knocked from
      her hand by an unseen attacker. She started to back up, but was
      pushed to the ground, struggling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">WAAAAAAAGH!</em>" Milo roared and flew towards Quirrell,
      knocking the Professor from his feet <em class="calibre7">into</em> the Mirror of
      Erised, which was made of sterner stuff than it looked. The
      man-sized mirror fell to the ground with a crash, and Milo and
      Quirrell came tumbling down on top of it. As they struggled, Milo
      noticed with revulsion that there was <em class="calibre7">another face</em> on
      Quirrell's head, normally hidden by his turban. A face with
      snakelike eyes and slits for a nose...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Mind on the task</em>, he reminded himself, trying to pin
      Quirrell to the ground. This next task would take all of his mental
      ability and concentration: Grappling. First an Attack of
      Opportunity—which Quirrell was denied, being caught Flat-Footed by
      Milo's sudden attack (though Milo was fairly sure that the local
      wizards hadn't ever heard of AoO's, anyways). Then... what was it?
      A touch attack? Milo clumsily grabbed the downed wizard, an easy
      task—Quirrell was unarmoured and not particularly agile, while Milo
      had his (again, by the low standards of his competition) superior
      melee talents, augmented by the +2 bonus for charging. Then (Milo
      wracked his brain to try to remember the ridiculously complicated
      rules) there was, what, an opposed Grapple check? He struggled to
      wrap the Amulet around Quirrell's neck as the fully-grown man
      resisted with vastly superior strength and size, albeit inferior
      skill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha!" Milo gasped. "I got a 16!" His fingers struggled to work
      the clasp on the steel chain (the clasp which was
      <em class="calibre7">specifically</em> designed to be difficult to do and undo) and
      almost felt it click into place when Quirrell threw him off. Milo
      landed in a heap, astonished, as Quirrell calmly climbed to his
      feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell was holding his wand. Milo blinked, trying to process
      the image in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell—no, <em class="calibre7">Voldemort</em>— was <em class="calibre7">holding his wand</em>.
      Thirteen inches, chestnut wood, dragon heartstring core...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Good for curses," Quirrell murmured to himself, testing the
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pelor above and Nerull below," Milo cursed. Trying to use the
      amulet to cut Voldemort's influence on Quirrell was Milo's last
      plan...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, his second-last plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">True Strike</em>," he muttered reaching into his
      extra-dimensional belt for his knife. He'd avoided this—horrific
      memories of his last use of the dagger flooded into his mind—but
      now, he had no choice. Milo threw the masterwork, cold iron dagger
      in an overhand arc, aimed right for Quirrell's throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The image of Hannah's crumpled body entered his mind's eye, but
      he dismissed it. It had been <em class="calibre7">Voldemort's</em> fault that Hannah
      had been possessed, <em class="calibre7">Voldemort's</em> fault that Milo had almost
      killed her with this very dagger, and <em class="calibre7">Voldemort's</em> fault
      that Milo was in this position once again. Dice rolled in Milo's
      head as he channelled all of his rage and anguish into this final,
      desperate throw. <em class="calibre7">Twenty</em>. Milo marvelled; even the DM
      seemed to be with him for once. Quirrell, and therefore Voldemort,
      suffered from the same weakness that Hannah had: a remarkably frail
      physical body. He wouldn't stand a chance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dagger spun gracefully in the air once, twice, thrice,
      guided by the unseen force of the famed True Strike spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell's wand arm shot upwards without even looking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No</em>," the horrible face on the back of Quirrell's head
      murmured, and the dagger stopped in midair halfway between Milo and
      his target. It hovered there for a moment, then crumpled and
      fell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No..." Milo whispered weakly, his voice barely carrying to his
      own ears. "That's not fair... I call shenanigans..." Still, he
      wasn't done yet. He still had two hit points, an active
      <em class="calibre7">Fly</em> spell, and a belt full of tricks. <em class="calibre7">Quaal, don't
      fail me now</em>. All Milo had to do was fly over to Quirrell, drop
      the feather, and watch as the purple-clad Professor was crushed
      between the ceiling and a rapidly growing oak tree. He grabbed the
      feather-shaped token in his gloved hand and launched himself into
      the air, aiming for the space over the Defence Professor's
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Petrificus Totalus</em>," Quirrell muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo fell like a stone, landing painfully next to Harry, who,
      like Hermione, had been pinned by invisible hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell turned to face them—that is, he looked directly
      <em class="calibre7">away</em> from Harry, Milo, and Hermione, treating them with a
      full view of the horror on the back of his head—and began casting
      with game-breaking speed, Milo's amulet still clutched in his left
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Petrificus Totalus, Petrificus Totalus," Harry and Hermione
      suddenly stopped fighting against their invisible attackers.
      "Finite Incantatem," all ten Redcaps—five of them critically
      injured from burns, two unconscious, two grappling Hermione and one
      grappling Harry—suddenly became visible. They looked around in
      surprise, clearly not counting on this unexpected turn of events.
      Then they began to die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Avada Kedavra, Avada Kedavra, Avada Kedavra..." One by one,
      Quirrell—Voldemort—methodically shot and killed the Fey, all the
      while his expression remaining neutral, almost bored. "<em class="calibre7">Horrible
      creatures</em>," the voice said in a strained, snakelike hiss.
      "<em class="calibre7">Still, not</em> quite <em class="calibre7">as useless as</em> some <em class="calibre7">of
      the... servants... I have had to... deal with... recently...</em>"
      Milo was unsure if the weird pauses in his dialogue were a dramatic
      affectation, or a result of his unnatural half-life.
      "<em class="calibre7">Disappointingly, I have... guessed incorrectly... about the
      nature of this Mirror...</em>" Voldemort waved his wand lazily, and
      the Mirror of Erised turned to dust, scattering about the room.
      "<em class="calibre7">It being a puzzle created by that... sentimental fool... I
      assumed one such as</em> him," Quirrell glanced at Harry, and for
      once the glimmer of emotion was visible in his snakelike eyes. In
      all, Milo was happier <em class="calibre7">before</em> knowing what the Dark Lord
      looked like when filled with barely controllable rage. "<em class="calibre7">would
      be able to crack it... some sort of frame of mind, perhaps
      benevolence... or a desire to do good... Alas... but fortune...
      favours me again...</em>" Voldemort paused to gasp for air. Milo
      wondered, briefly, how the <em class="calibre7">internals</em>, so to speak, of
      Quirrell and Voldemort's setup worked—where the esophagus went, and
      such—before deciding he didn't want to know. "<em class="calibre7">It... seems that
      my... so-called downfall... has been delivered directly into my
      hands...</em>" The tips of Voldemort's mouth bent upwards into a
      horrific semblance of a grin, and Milo decided that he preferred
      wrath to pleasure on that horrific face. "<em class="calibre7">Blood of the
      enemy...</em>" he murmured, though Milo wasn't sure what he meant
      by that. <em class="calibre7">"Oh, and...</em> Crucio." Harry screamed, straining
      against the bonds of his Full-Body-Bind curse. His scar started
      bleeding as his body was wracked with the worst pain magic could
      produce. Milo had once been the target of a <em class="calibre7">Power Word:
      Pain</em> spell, but this looked <em class="calibre7">significantly</em> worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">And now... young Milo... I no longer have need... of
      your... specialized abilities...</em> Avada Keda—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Click</em>. As soon as Voldemort started casting with his
      right hand, Quirrell's <em class="calibre7">left</em> hand reached around his neck
      and snapped the Amulet of Protection from Evil into place. There
      was a brief moment of silence, and then Voldemort—or
      Quirrel—collapsed to the ground. The magical bonds trapping Milo
      and the others vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did..." Harry said. "Did Voldemort just finish himself off?"
      Hermione, meanwhile, rushed over to check on Ron, who was blearily
      regaining consciousness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bit anticlimactic, if you ask me," Milo said. "Still, could be
      some sort of trick..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said, climbing to his feet shakily. "Trick us into
      thinking that he's tricking us into thinking he's dead by offing
      himself. Brilliant, that is. Well, we saw through his cunning ploy.
      Go team."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mage Hand</em>." Milo floated his wand away from Quirrell,
      then quickly drew his 11-foot pole (sometimes, you just need that
      extra foot) and prodded the body gently. There was no response.
      "Huh. Well, looks like we got him. Time to loot the corpses." His
      companions looked at him, a mix of shock and revulsion on his
      faces, as he patted down the Redcaps for loose change. Not finding
      any, he settled for pocketing their swords in his Belt of Hidden
      Pouches, and proceeded to the <em class="calibre7">real</em> prize: the boss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think this went rather well," Milo said happily, walking over
      to Quirrell. "We stopped the Philosopher's Stone from being stolen,
      defeated the Dark Lord Voldemort once and for all—sort of?
      Maybe?—rescued the princess," (Milo nodded at Harry, ignoring his
      'Hey!') "and we don't even need to shell out for a single <em class="calibre7">True
      Resurrection</em>. Not bad, all things considered. All that remains
      is to divvy up the loot—<em class="calibre7">Holycraphe'sbreathing</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell, it appeared, was merely unconscious—but of the face on
      the back of his head, there was no sign, merely a normal (but
      shaved) scalp. Milo reached for the amulet around Quirrell's neck,
      but decided against it. For all he knew, it was the only thing
      keeping Voldemort at bay. Still, he patted down Quirrell's pockets
      nevertheless. Not much, really, when it came down to it—just a few
      sickles, some garlic, a holy symbol... and a tattered old book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Hello</em>!" Milo exclaimed, turning over the shabby,
      leather-bound diary. There was a faded date on the cover (Milo did
      some arithmetic and figured it was just over fifty years old).
      "What have we here? Book of evil plans? Tome of Clear Thought? Book
      of spells? Let's find out... <em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em>." Milo paused
      for a second while the spell read the book in its entirety.
      "...Huh. It's empty. That's... unexpected. As far as treasure goes,
      this kind of sucks." Behind him, Ron blearily stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it really <em class="calibre7">is</em> just an old book?" Hermione
      suggested. "We can ask Quirrell when he wakes up. No, just wait,
      Ron—you really shouldn't be moving around yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I see it?" Ron asked groggily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Milo said, and tossed it over to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron flipped through a few pages. "Anyone know who "T. M. Riddle
      is?" Seeing them all shaking their heads, Ron pocketed the book.
      "What?" he asked defensively. "Ginny will be starting school next
      year; she'll need a notebook." Ron was always very self-conscious
      of his family's wealth (or lack thereof) and parchment <em class="calibre7">was</em>
      kind of expensive (by non-PC standards, anyway), so Milo let the
      issue drop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should probably grab the Professor and work our way
      backwards through the challenges," Harry suggested. "We should
      really tell Dumbledore about all this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paled. "We are in <em class="calibre7">so much trouble</em>," she said.
      "We broke into the <em class="calibre7">expressly-forbidden third-floor
      corridor!</em>" she paused for a second. "And then nearly
      <em class="calibre7">killed</em> the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have an even bigger problem than that," Milo said. "How in
      the Nine Hells do we get <em class="calibre7">out</em>?" The black fire was still
      guarding the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all looked at him. Milo sighed. "<em class="calibre7">Fine</em>." He
      proceeded to wade through the flames, grab the little black bottle,
      carry it out, have someone drink it and walk back, wait for it to
      replenish, then wade through fire <em class="calibre7">again</em>. Rinse and repeat
      for his three companions and Quirrell, who was still unconscious
      (they had to pour the bottle down his throat and hope for the best,
      though, to be honest, none of them much cared if he was trapped
      down there or not). Then again for the purple flames. The whole
      process took more than an hour, but, blessedly, was
      timeskipped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was far too distracted thinking up what to do with his new
      level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: And so, the Epic Boss Fight of Climacticity +5
      comes to an end. As I mentioned above, I rolled all the attack,
      damage, saving throw, initiative, etc. dice for this battle (using
      modified Redcap stats from the MMIII and Super Secret stats for
      Quirrellmort). I must say, I cackled somewhat at Milo's Crit, and
      the feeble attempts of the unarmed Redcap trying to defeat Milo's
      multi-layered defences.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">See you next chapter for the dénouement! (Fear not, true
      believers—Book 2 is already in the works)</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
