<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 33: Epilogue, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s30" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 33: Epilogue One, Rebuilding</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Sorry for the lateness (as usual). Term ends
      tomorrow, and then there's exams, but after that I'll have a lot
      more time to make sure updates are regular-ish, like last
      Spring/Summer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In other news, my fic so far (including the two omakes, but not
      the author's notes) clocks in at 265 pages, font-size 11,
      single-spaced. It's roughly double the length of <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter
      and the Philosopher's Stone</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In other other news, the first chapter of <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and
      the Confirmed Critical</em> will likely be ready in two weeks.
      Maybe three. I want to plan ahead a little bit more in advance this
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In other other other news, Less Wrong gave an extremely
      favourable review of <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and the Natural 20</em> on
      his website ( /notes/progress-13-04-01/), which I am strongly
      considering framing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo does some fairly obscure and convoluted, but not
      particularly plot-relevant munchkinry in this chapter. I glossed
      over it in the prose, but, if you're interested, the details can be
      seen at the end of the epilogue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>

      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, Milo, you should be revising for History of Magic,"
      Hermione chided as Milo stumbled into the Great Hall for breakfast.
      The exam was less than a fortnight away, but he'd hardly even
      glanced at his notes. The Hall was full of students, with the usual
      comforting white noise of hundreds of conversations going on in the
      background. For a time, the only topic of conversation was
      Professor Quirrell's sudden absence, which continued well after
      Dumbledore's announcement that he had suffered a nervous breakdown
      and was recuperating at St. Mungo's—which, as far as Milo could
      tell, was true. Dumbledore had been as close-mouthed and mysterious
      about it as he was about everything, however. Eventually, the
      Hogwarts students had found other topics to amuse
      themselves—Quidditch (Gryffindor had surprised everyone as the
      clear leader, with Ravenclaw and Slytherin competing neck-to-neck
      for second), the upcoming exams, Fred and George's latest hijinks
      (Hogwarts had awoken to find one of the legs of every chair in
      every classroom was shortened by a quarter of an inch; nobody could
      figure out how they'd done it), various Ministry scandals, the
      illustrious deeds of Gilderoy Lockhart, and, most recently, the
      death of some Death Eater bigshot at Azkaban. In short, as far as
      Milo was concerned, nothing of relevance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No time," Milo said sleepily. "It's almost done." He'd barely
      slept for weeks. There was too much to do: spell research, item
      crafting, and—most recently—a major feat of munchkinry. He'd
      discovered that there simply wasn't enough time in a day to do
      everything that had to be done, and that the only way for him to
      carry on without keeling over dead was with some magical assistance
      by way of a Dedicated Wright. These creatures, a form of
      Homunculus, were cat-sized magical automata created by spellcasters
      to help them craft items, both magical and mundane. Milo still had
      to provide the spells, and raw materials worth half the value of
      the finished product, but the Wright would do the actual crafting.
      This would free up eight hours a day from Milo's packed schedule
      for frivolous luxuries, such as sleep and adventuring. However,
      Milo lacked some of the prerequisites for creating the Wright, and
      so had to, through convoluted means, retrain a number of his class
      levels to Artificer from Wizard, then back again. While he was at
      it, he made a few modifications to his current build. Many of his
      abilities had been chosen under duress and with very specific needs
      in mind—needs that no longer existed—and he was in dire need of
      some streamlining.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is?" Neville asked, pouring an (un)healthy amount of salt
      onto his dinner. He seemed distracted, even by his usual
      standards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Careful with that!" Milo said. "Do you have <em class="calibre7">any</em> idea
      what that's worth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville stared at him blankly, utter incomprehension evident on
      his round face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh... sorry? What what's worth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre7">salt!</em> It's worth its weight in silver!" Milo was
      aghast that anyone would just <em class="calibre7">pour</em> it onto their food like
      some sort of <em class="calibre7">condiment</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm pretty sure you're wrong about that," Neville said, giving
      him a look that Hogwarts students reserved for Milo when he
      exclaimed 'Natural Twenty!' after a Chaser made a particularly
      impressive goal. "Salt's just... well, it's salt. You can get it
      anywhere, it's on everything, they give it out for free in tiny
      paper packages at restaurants. It's <em class="calibre7">salt</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, you're serious?" Milo asked. "They just <em class="calibre7">give</em> it
      away?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Course. It's just <em class="calibre7">salt</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. Crafting magic items required a specific value of
      unspecified materials, so, really, anything valuable could work as
      long as Milo 'used it up' in the production of his gear. However,
      this price was measured as a <em class="calibre7">gold piece</em> value, not a
      galleon or Muggle currency value. Salt had a fixed price of five
      gold pieces per pound as far as his magic was concerned, but if the
      local conditions meant that he could get it for a small fraction of
      that...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha...ha...MWAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Epilogue Two: Charms Final</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Abbot, Hannah!" Flitwick called from the front of the room.
      Hannah shot Milo, Harry, Ron, and Hermione a nervous look and
      walked to the front of the room, wand clenched with white knuckles.
      Harry and Ron, on Milo's left, looked somewhat pale and shaky,
      while Hermione, on his right, was rocking back and forth in her
      chair, her mouth moving soundlessly at a tremendous speed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of them, only Milo was unconcerned. Pretty much the only spell
      that they'd actually learned in Charms was the Hover Charm, which
      was, fortunately, one of the few spells that he could actually
      mimic. More or less. More pressing was the debate of which, if any,
      prestige classes Milo should adopt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Up at the front of the room, Hannah stuttered slightly but
      managed, in the end, to lift the heavy textbook from the desk and
      hover it in the air for a few seconds before lowering it to the
      table. Flitwick, at the front, looked pleased, and Hannah scurried
      off through one of the side doors. Milo hardly noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Paragnostic Apostle has dead easy requirements</em>, Milo
      mused, <em class="calibre7">but the benefits are so-so.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amastacia-Liadon, Milo!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'd have to be a member of the 'Paragnostic Assembly,' which
      doesn't exist here—or back in Azel, for that matter—but, when it
      comes down to it, I could probably just paint a sign on the door of
      my dorm that says 'WELCOME TO THE PARAGNOSTIC ASSEMBLY, NEW MEMBERS
      WELCOME' and ordain Mordy as the 'Exalted Philosopher of
      Paragnostic Truths'... fluff requirements are so
      irritating...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er... Milo?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Master Specialist isn't bad, but the benefits don't really
      help me all that much. Besides, it takes Spell Focus
      (Conjuration)</em>. Milo had been planning to swap that out. The
      locals almost never failed to fail a save as it stood—it was almost
      as if they didn't even <em class="calibre7">have</em> Will save bonuses!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick coughed expectantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right!" Milo said absentmindedly, and tried to walk out of
      the aisle of students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I might just stay as a full Wizard, then,</em> Milo decided.
      <em class="calibre7">Mordy would chew me out if I dipped into a PrC that didn't
      advance Familiars, anyway.</em> He could swap some of his bonus
      feats for the Domain Granted Power ability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just hover the textbook," Flitwick urged gently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, yeah, whatever." Milo lazily drew his wand and waved it
      around more-or-less at random. <em class="calibre7">Not that the feats wouldn't come
      in handy, what with all the item crafting I've been doing</em>. He
      still couldn't believe that he was willingly sacrificing his
      experience points for <em class="calibre7">anything</em>. "Wing Guardian
      <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>-iosa," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">With all the close-quarters combat that's been happening,
      maybe I should take some levels of Eldritch Knight...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo fought down a chuckle. Theoretically, Eldritch Knight only
      held back spellcasting by one level—not including the level in a
      martial class needed to meet the prerequisites. However, this
      remained strictly in the hypothetical, as nobody had yet taken two
      levels in Eldritch Knight and lived to talk about it. The last
      adventurer who came close was slain by a kitten in a fair
      fight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That," Flitwick said sternly, "was the worst Hover Charm I have
      <em class="calibre7">ever</em> seen. Your wandwork—and footwork!—was sloppy in the
      extreme. Your incantation was thoroughly botched,
      and...and...<em class="calibre7">put me down this instant</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">On the other hand...</em> <em class="calibre7">there really</em> has <em class="calibre7">been
      a lot of fighting.</em> He'd have to see if there were any magic
      items he could make, or spells to research, to increase his combat
      skills without sacrificing magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, sorry," Milo said, and dismissed <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>.
      Professor Flitwick, who Milo had inadvertently lifted eight feet
      off the ground, fell with a crash. The textbook remained on the
      table, completely unmoved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In <em class="calibre7">all</em> my years teaching at Hogwarts, I've only
      <em class="calibre7">twice</em> seen such... such..." Milo winced as Flitwick drew
      himself up to his full (but still tiny) height, brushing dust off
      of his shoulders. "such an <em class="calibre7">audacious</em> display of magic from
      a first year student at Hogwarts!" Flitwick stretched up to Milo's
      ear and whispered in a conspiratorial manner, "I shouldn't be
      surprised, if I were you, to find that you'd received an
      <em class="calibre7">Outstanding</em> mark, if you catch my drift."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For those interested, here's how Milo made the Dedicated Wright
      (ECS 285):</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dedicated Wright requires five things to create: the Craft
      Construct feat, <em class="calibre7">Arcane Eye</em>, <em class="calibre7">Fabricate</em>, a DC 14
      Craft (Pottery) check, and a body composed of "clay, glazed with a
      mixture of arcane unguents and the creator's blood, and fired in a
      kiln."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Craft (Pottery) check was easy, seeing as how it was DC 14
      and Milo already possesses a +6 modifier to Craft from Intelligence
      (not even including a bonus from tools and the various spells he
      could have used)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The materials for the body are easy: much of anything found at
      Hogwarts and Diagon Alley can count as "arcane unguents." Milo used
      powdered mistletoe berry, belladonna, and garlic, with the
      reasoning that there was no reason why his Homunculus
      <em class="calibre7">shouldn't</em> be a remedy for Lycanthropy, a Divine Spell
      Focus for Druids, and immune to vampires. To make up the 100 gp
      cost requirement, he used Craft (Engraving) to carve a the
      homunculus into a work of art, resembling tiny little dwarf with
      the eye of Boccob on his forehead (incidentally making the
      Homunculus into a holy symbol—<em class="calibre7">just in case</em>). The Wright
      is, obviously, riddled in invisible <em class="calibre7">Arcane Marks</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tricky bit comes from the Craft Construct feat and
      <em class="calibre7">Fabricate</em>. The only way to get around this is retraining.
      Using the Philosopher's Stone dungeon as his Rebuild quest (see
      PHBII, 197-199), Milo swaps out his 7 of his 8 Wizard levels for
      Artificer. However, each dungeon run only allows him to swap 1/5 of
      his levels, so he simply goes back to Fluffy's room and does it
      again three times. He needs one level of Wizard—I'm not sure what
      would happen to Mordenkainen if Milo ceased being a Wizard
      altogether, and neither is Milo. Nothing good, to be sure.
      Completing the dungeon run again is no problem, as he knows which
      potion to drink, knows the weakness of the Devil's Snare, and can
      use the same set of moves as Ron did to beat the chess game every
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As an Artificer, Milo can craft magic items without knowing the
      requisite spells. <em class="calibre7">Fabricate</em> is a mere third-level spell
      for the Trapsmith class (from Dungeonscape), so it can be easily
      copied. <em class="calibre7">Arcane Eye</em>, likewise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo can likewise retrain one of his feats for Craft
      Construct</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the Wright is finished, Milo can rebuild his character
      back to Wizard. This all has to be finished in a short timeframe,
      as the Philosopher's Stone run will presumably be dismantled and
      lose its dungeon-status after the Stone is moved.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
