<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 7: The Potions Master, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: The Potions Master</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just sad I didn't get to see his face when he read the
      <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>," Malfoy sniggered. Several Slytherins
      laughed as well. "I'll bet he was like, '<em class="calibre7">BWAH,</em>'" he said,
      making a face that would match '<em class="calibre7">BWAH'</em> rather well, in
      fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Teach him to mess with Slytherin in our own dungeon," Crabbe
      (or Goyle) said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, shows him to mess with us in our own classroom," said
      Goyle (or Crabbe).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And for that time on the train," Crabbe (probably) added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that time on the Hogwarts express," said Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, and for when Potter got the Remembrall from you," Crabbed
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, for that time he showed you up in flying in front of
      everyone and got Longbottom's Remembrall," Goyle clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then when he got put on the Quidditch team even though
      first years aren't allowed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, for when the teachers were so impressed at how great his
      flying was that he became the youngest Seeker in a century," said
      Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In future," Malfoy said coldly, "could you two <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      list out every time they've shown us up whenever I have a
      victory?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry boss," said Crabbe. "It's just that they have so, you
      know, many of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah boss," said Goyle. "They have so many, and they're real
      easy to remember, because everyone always talks about them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy sighed. He wondered if the warranty had expired, or if he
      couldn't just send these two back for a pair of shiny, new
      goons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't help but feel like there was something I was supposed
      to do this morning," Milo said as he walked back to the castle from
      the forest, "but I just can't remember what it was. Can't have been
      very important."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was forced to admit to herself, however reluctantly,
      that she was dead bored. The three boys were total morons, but they
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> make things interesting. She wondered if there was
      some way she could work her way back into their preposterous plan
      without looking exceedingly foolish. She applied her towering
      intellect to the problem, hypothesized various scenarios and
      predicted their likely outcomes, and thirty seconds later said:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed. It wasn't even that their points were even
      slightly convincing, it was just that it was sort of fun, in a dark
      way, to imagine that You-Know-Who really <em class="calibre7">was</em> returning and
      that he was after the Stone and Snape was a dark wizard...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I can't go back on my position," she reminded herself. "Or
      I'll look like an idiot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but just think," she countered, "what if it <em class="calibre7">is</em>
      true? What if Snape is trying to get the Stone for You-Know-Who?
      Shouldn't I be helping put a stop to this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it is, Dumbledore would know, and he would do something.
      He's the only one You-Know-Who was ever afraid of, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Dumbledore is just one person," the other side of her
      argued, "he could get caught by surprise, or called away, or be
      sleeping, or distracted, or <em class="calibre7">anything</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if <em class="calibre7">Dumbledore</em> isn't enough, how could I
      <em class="calibre7">possibly</em> help? I'm barely twelve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that what <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> said in the last war?" she
      questioned herself. "Did they just say, 'I'm only a dressmaker,
      Dumbledore will take care of it, and in any case my marks in
      Defence Against the Dark Arts were rubbish,' and <em class="calibre7">nobody</em>
      did anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doing the opposite and going on a witch hunt now will only make
      things <em class="calibre7">worse</em>," she protested. "There's no knowing where it
      will end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Without a witch hunt, you'll never catch witches."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">am</em> a witch!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You—er, I—know what I mean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I'll just wait until there's proof," she said, "and then
      I'll help in any way that I can. How is that not reasonable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just think, Hermione, <em class="calibre7">think</em>. You—er, I—know what the
      problem is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's that it's <em class="calibre7">Harry</em> and <em class="calibre7">Ron</em> that I'm
      depending on to find conclusive proof," she said defeatedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," Harry asked the ghost of Professor Binns politely,
      "Ron and I were wondering if you could help us on a little
      independent research?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Research—<em class="calibre7">my h</em>elp—independent—why, I'd be
      <em class="calibre7">delighted</em>!" the ghost said. "Would you believe that in all
      my years of teaching, no student has <em class="calibre7">ever</em> asked me that?
      What is it you need to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nicolas Flamel," Ron said. "He just seemed like such a... a...
      uh, a dynamic and interesting—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—historically significant—" Harry added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—yeah, historically significant, dynamic, interesting,
      historical, erm a, figure." Ron finished lamely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we'd love to hear everything you know about him," Harry
      said. For some unimaginable reason, most of the library seemed to
      be checked out already (maybe they were doing some re-organizing?)
      so they'd resorted to actually asking a professor for help. It
      seemed to rub Harry the wrong way, somehow, going to an adult, but
      it was all they could come up with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry diligently tried, he really did, to listen to everything
      Binns said about Flamel and to stay awake while doing so, but the
      stone's texture in the floor was just so much more
      <em class="calibre7">interesting</em>. Ron's eyes developed a glassy look in under
      five minutes (glassier than usual, that is), and by the third hour
      Harry wasn't quite sure that he didn't look the at least as
      bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," he said after they'd (finally) left Binns' office, "that
      was, uh, interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was it?" Ron asked. "Glad to hear it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," Harry said, "that we might need Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was hoping you wouldn't say that, mate," Ron said with a
      sigh. "Did we learn anything important, though?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Flamel's a big, powerful wizard and master alchemist who found
      out how to create a Philosopher's Stone—turns out, it's not
      necessarily a unique object, but he only ever made the one,
      anyway—which can turn lead into gold and create the Elixir of Life.
      He used to fight Dark Wizards, but decided to retire with his wife
      way back, and he's been sort of neutral since then. Keeps to
      himself, mostly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, nothing we didn't already know," Ron said. "Great, just
      <em class="calibre7">great</em>. Well, there went our Saturday, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said. "I hope Milo found something more useful in
      the Forbidden Forest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that he didn't get eaten by werewolves," Ron added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo, in a rare moment of luck, made a Listen check
      successfully. He almost wished he hadn't. He'd hoped to get out of
      the woods without the mandatory random encounter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Invisibility,</em>" he said as he faded from sight.
      <em class="calibre7">Hope it's not a false alarm</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">That was my
      last 2</em><em class="calibre7">nd</em><em class="calibre7">-level spell</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All he'd heard was movement in the shrubs, and it could have
      been caused by anything. Really, when it came down to it, Milo not
      only didn't know what kind of creatures lived in this forest, but
      this <em class="calibre7">world</em>. Bugbears? Owlbears? Dire bears? Giant bears?
      Shapeshifted druids in the form of bears? Gods help him,
      <em class="calibre7">grizzly</em> bears?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it turned out, it was far, far worse than any form of bear or
      bear-like monstrosity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Professor Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Is he here looking for me? Or is</em> he <em class="calibre7">the one killing
      unicorns, and he's going for another one?</em> <em class="calibre7">I could follow
      him</em>, Milo thought, <em class="calibre7">but</em> Invisibility <em class="calibre7">only lasts
      four minutes</em>. <em class="calibre7">And if I run into trouble, I'm already out
      of spells</em>. Milo bit his lip. <em class="calibre7">I feel like Harry Potter
      would for sure, but... well...</em> <em class="calibre7">this is a job for a Rogue.
      I've got no business sneaking around in a forest, tailing people.
      I'm a</em> Wizard<em class="calibre7">, I should have people for this.</em> He
      frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Mordy," he whispered, "time to put that +10 bonus to Move
      Silently to use." Mordenkainen, who had been sitting on his
      shoulder, nodded gravely (although Milo couldn't see, because the
      familiar was as invisible as he was) and scampered noiselessly
      after the Potions Master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're late," Lucius hissed. "You were supposed to be here
      forty-seven seconds ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need a favour," Lucius said. "It would do well for you to
      comply."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go on," Snape shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is a certain individual who, I understand, is a
      first-year student attending Hogwarts," Lucius said. "He has no
      business here. Have him expelled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Potter boy?" Snape grinned. He'd wondered when Lucius was
      going to make his move against the Dark Lord's mortal enemy.
      Fortunately, he and Dumbledore had prepared for this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we can deal with Potter later; I speak of one Mr. ...
      Amastacia-Liadon," Lucius said. <em class="calibre7">He... no,</em> it <em class="calibre7">knows too
      much, whatever it is that we summoned</em>, Lucius
      thought<em class="calibre7">.</em> "Whatever you have to do, get him out of that
      school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It shall be as you say," Snape said. <em class="calibre7">Now,</em> this <em class="calibre7">is
      good news</em>, Snape thought. <em class="calibre7">Time to get back at that</em>
      boy <em class="calibre7">for insulting my house and attacking my students. And
      unlike Potter, I'm under no obligation to protect him.</em> Snape
      smiled briefly before masking it. <em class="calibre7">No sense letting Lucius know
      I'd do this one for free.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It shouldn't be too hard for you," Lucius said. "He's not a
      wizard." <em class="calibre7">I doubt he's even human</em>. <em class="calibre7">We may have
      accidentally created some sort of ... Homunculus. An artificial
      human. There's no telling what it might do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Milo returned to the castle, it was late afternoon. He was
      glad to make it to safety—not because he thought he was really in
      any mortal danger, after what he'd discovered in the forest, but
      because without any powerful spells he was as good as useless if
      another plot hook appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What he had to do was find Harry. He had a right to know about
      Milo's discovery—it directly affected the Boy-Who-Lived, after
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-M-Milo," Milo heard a familiar voice from behind him.
      "M-m-m-ight I have a w-w-w-word with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Milo said. "What's up, Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"E-enjoying the sun, I s-s-see?" Quirrell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was sunny?" Milo asked. Nobody ever paid much attention to
      weather where he was from, unless it was an ominous thunderstorm.
      "Well, then I guess I was. And I went to check out that spider
      thingy I killed the other day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, did you?" Quirrell asked. "Whatever for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just that something seemed wrong about the whole thing.
      The tree really shouldn't have killed it," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It looked like a pretty heavy tree to me," Quirrell said.
      "Maybe it was an extraordinarily lucky hit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Falling objects can't critical hit, because they don't make
      attack rolls," Milo said. "It would be different if I threw
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, what did you just say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, nevermind. I'll figure it out eventually. I don't suppose
      you noticed anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Quirrell. "I did not—although just a moment ago, I
      did see the Potions Master heading into the forest." Quirrell
      looked Milo directly in the eye when he did, as if expecting
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, did you?" Milo said. "Wonder what he was doing. Gathering
      rare potions ingredients or something. Probably. Yeah, totally
      that." <em class="calibre7">Natural 1 on Bluff. Great. Just</em> great<em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. Well, I'll be seeing you in class Monday," Quirrell
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Not a Wizard?</em> Snape mused. <em class="calibre7">What could that possibly
      mean? How could he be in Hogwarts and</em> not <em class="calibre7">be a
      Wizard?</em> <em class="calibre7">I'll have to keep a closer eye on him in
      class...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape's breath caught. <em class="calibre7">The only reason Lucius would have an
      interest in him is if the boy's tale were true,</em> he thought.
      <em class="calibre7">So, impossible as it seems, he really</em> is <em class="calibre7">from another
      world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape was caught in a dilemma. If he refused to do as Lucius
      asked, it would blow his cover with the Death Eaters, and his
      position there would be necessary in the next war. And, though he
      tried to keep it from influencing his decision, he <em class="calibre7">did</em>
      want to get his revenge with Milo for 'accidentally' blinding his
      students. But... Snape was under no illusions about what Lucius
      would do to Milo once the boy was outside of the wards and away
      from Dumbledore's protection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Snape that everyone knew, the pawn of Lucius, would comply.
      If he didn't, it would confirm any suspicions Lucius had about him
      being a double agent. And besides, if Milo really <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> a
      wizard, then it would be Snape's duty as professor to make sure he
      was expelled. Besides, Milo wasn't anyone <em class="calibre7">important</em>. It
      was unfortunate, perhaps, but the boy had become a pawn that needed
      to be sacrificed to protect the king.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape was broken out of his reverie when he bumped into the
      Defence Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-s-s-sorry, S-S-Severus," Quirrell stammered and scurried
      away. Snape shook his head. <em class="calibre7">It should have been me with that
      position</em>, Snape thought. <em class="calibre7">Quirrell is much more suited to
      his old job as Professor of Muggle Studies</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hang on,</em> Snape thought. He could practically hear the
      wheels clicking in his brain. <em class="calibre7">What was it Quirrell said about
      Milo? That he was impressed with his magical abilities?</em> From
      what Snape had heard, Milo was one of the least gifted students
      that Hogwarts had seen, apart from his occasional demonstration of
      wandless magic. And after that acromantula attack, Quirrell had
      tried pretty desperately to save the boy... most unusual. The
      Quirrell that Snape knew fainted whenever he saw a spider.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Most unusual, indeed.</em> With everything going on
      involving Milo, nothing, Snape decided, should be treated as
      coincidence. Snape resolved to keep a closer eye on the Defence
      Professor, and watch for an opportunity to prove Milo's lack of
      magic. <em class="calibre7">Shouldn't be too hard</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">I'll just
      have to wait for the other students to progress somewhat. When he
      fails to do so as well, that will be evidence enough.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Sometimes I'm so clever I outsmart myself</em>, Milo thought
      bitterly. <em class="calibre7">This is one of those times</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak squeak <em class="calibre7">squeak squeak</em>," Mordy said excitedly.
      "Squeak squeak SQUEAK."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mordenkainen: <em class="calibre7">I don't speak Rat,</em>" Milo said, his voice
      tinged with an edge of frustration. Though they shared an empathic
      link, which let each know the other's general mood and condition,
      they couldn't actually <em class="calibre7">speak</em> until Milo hit level
      five.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's up, mate?" Ron asked him. Milo was sitting in Gryffindor
      Common Room, trying to figure out what Mordy had seen Snape do.
      From what he could tell, there was a great deal of squeaking
      involved. Ron and Harry had just walked through the portal, looking
      despondent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I found Snape sneaking about in the forest and had Mordy tail
      him, but I evidently didn't think very far ahead when I did. You
      ever hear of a spell that lets you talk to animals?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Ron said. "Except for Parselmouths, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Parcel mouths?" Milo asked. "What are those, aside from the
      worst thing to get in the mail imaginable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey!" Ron exclaimed. "<em class="calibre7">Everyone</em> knows about
      Parselmouths."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, I thought I asked you to stop doing that?" Potter said. "I
      was raised by Muggles, and Milo's from another planet or
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right. Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We know as much about Parselmouths as we did about Quidditch,"
      Harry continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is to say absolutely nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because we, unlike you, were not raised in Magical
      Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just saying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo coughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Parselmouths?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right," Ron said. "Well, it's this really rare ability some
      people have that lets them talk to snakes," Ron said. "It's said
      Slytherin was one—Salazar Slytherin, that is—and You-Know-Who. It's
      a sign of Dark Wizards, for sure. I've never heard of any after
      You-Know-Who, and it's just snakes, anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo said. "Well, that's pretty useless." Harry, however,
      had gone completely white.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have to—that is, I should probably—I'll just go. Er. Bye."
      Harry said, and fled the Common Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was weird," Ron said. "Wonder what that was all
      about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something significant, probably," Milo said. "But I don't think
      it has anything to do with us, yet. We can always ask him later,
      but right <em class="calibre7">now</em>, I have to figure out how to speak with this
      rat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you can find out what evil things Snape was up to in the
      forest?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Milo said. "then you can use it to get Hermione to help
      you figure out what's going on with the Philosopher's Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know we need help?" Ron asked defensively. "For all
      you know, we learned everything we needed today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh? Did you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe. I wasn't really listening, to be honest," Ron
      admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is why we need Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is why you need to make your rat speak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bollocks," Ron said. "Best of luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a spell Milo knew of that would help, called <em class="calibre7">Speak
      With Animals</em>. Unfortunately, it was only available to Rangers,
      Druids, and Bards—and Milo would sooner die than become any of
      those. If he could get his hands on a gnome—a proper gnome, not one
      of those garden gnomes that Ron kept complaining about—then they
      could maybe help, because they could speak with animals a few times
      a day. Only burrowing animals, though. Milo wondered if rats
      counted as burrowing animals or, if not, merely digging a hole once
      would count. He would, technically be "burrowing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. He didn't have a gnome, he didn't have a Ranger, he
      didn't have a Druid, and he neither had nor particularly wanted a
      Bard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak, squeak squeak," Mordy continued without pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were only two options, as Milo saw it. He could attempt to
      push the rules past breaking point and test if his Spontaneous
      Divination ability could mimic Druid spells, or he could wait until
      levelling up to find out. The first option risked calling righteous
      fury upon himself from above, while the second took time and
      monster slaying. Unfortunately, patience was a virtue, and Milo was
      True Neutral.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Speak with Animals</em>," Milo tried to cast, attempting to
      swap out <em class="calibre7">Protection from Evil</em>. Other than losing the spell
      from his memorized list, nothing happened—but Milo felt a distinct
      sense of <em class="calibre7">wrongness</em>. It was as if the universe recoiled
      from him slightly, pondered for a moment, then...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me," Lavender Brown said to him, "Professor McGonagall
      told me to tell you that Professor Snape wants to talk to you,
      like, right this second."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure it's totally a coincidence," Milo said nervously as he
      started to sweat. "Heh, heh. Hah. Coincidence.
      OhmygodsI'mgoingtodie." Lavender gave him a sympathetic look, but
      said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo supposed he would just have to wait until he gained another
      level before finding out what Snape was up to in the Forbidden
      Forest. <em class="calibre7">And this</em>, he thought as he walked towards Snape's
      dungeon, <em class="calibre7">is why you don't try to stretch the Rules as Written
      to allow more than 150% as much as the Rules as Intended, er,
      intended.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I just hope I'll have the opportunity to live long enough to
      learn from my mistake.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo knocked on the heavy wooden door to Snape's office, which
      created a surprisingly loud echo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enter," a voice said sternly from the other side of the door.
      Milo quickly ran through his assets before opening the door: a pair
      of <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitations</em> and <em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em>, an
      <em class="calibre7">Acid Splash</em>, a <em class="calibre7">Protection from Evil</em>, a <em class="calibre7">Silent
      Image</em>, anda <em class="calibre7">Feather Fall</em>, as well as the contents of
      his <em class="calibre7">Belt of Hidden Pouches</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, not much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo cautiously opened the door and walked in. Snape's office
      was... uniquely atmospheric. There was an eyeball floating in a
      jar, and it was probably the <em class="calibre7">least</em> creepy thing there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, mister Amastacia-Liadon," Snape said. "I've been expecting
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo whimpered quietly. Sitting on Snape's desk was a lustrous
      black flask inlaid with a silver skull pattern. There was a
      skull-shaped stopper with reflective red eyes. To complete the
      image, the eyes glowed slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Pomfrey has instructed me to give you this," he said,
      gesturing at the very, <em class="calibre7">very</em> evil flask. "It contains a
      week's worth of antidote for acromantula venom," Snape continued.
      "You are to drink one teaspoon every night, ideally within a minute
      or two of midnight for full effect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-why midnight?" Milo stammered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, just so your body has time to process it before
      breakfast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-why the sk-skulls?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the only flask I had in the correct size."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." That didn't, of course, answer the question of why he
      possessed such a flask in the first place. It looked more suited to
      holding the blood of sacrificial maidens than medicine. Well, no
      matter, Milo could just cast <em class="calibre7">Detect Poison</em> on it as soon
      as he left the office to see if it was dangerous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, before you go, make sure you don't drink more than your
      prescribed amount," Snape warned. "That's a powerful poison in
      large quantities." <em class="calibre7">Well,</em> Milo thought, <em class="calibre7">there goes that
      plan. It would just register as poisonous anyways. The safest
      option is to just toss a teaspoon of it down the drain every night
      and hope for the best.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And make sure you don't miss a night, either," Snape said. "Or
      the venom could relapse, and you'll most likely die." <em class="calibre7">Oh,
      come</em> on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Um, thanks," Milo said. "I'll just, ah, go now. Bye,
      Professor." Milo fled the room, and didn't stop running until he
      was in front of the Fat Lady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Password?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak," Milo said, and the painting swung open to reveal
      Gryffindor Tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo found Ron and Harry sitting at a table by themselves
      playing Wizard Chess. Harry had evidently returned from his weird
      flight earlier, but still looked a little shaken. Milo was no chess
      expert, but judging by the fact that Harry only had two pieces
      left, Ron was winning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo collapsed into an overstuffed armchair and slammed the
      accursed flask on the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Detect Poison</em>, <em class="calibre7">Detect Magic</em>," he started
      casting rapidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell, mate," Ron said, staring at the skulled flask.
      "What's in there, You-Know-Who's tears?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Identify, Ancient Knowledge, Appraising Touch,</em>" Milo
      continued casting uninterrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that you're muttering?" Harry said. "Are you sweating?
      What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's poisonous and apparently nonmagical," Milo said to
      himself. "But that broomstick didn't appear to be magical, either.
      It could have a <em class="calibre7">Magic Aura</em> cast on it to conceal it from
      detection," Milo said, "or something more powerful. Otherwise I
      don't know at all what's in there... And it could <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      be poisonous, and Snape was just saying 'it's poisonous in large
      quantities' as an excuse to make me ignore the results of
      <em class="calibre7">Detect Poison</em>. Although Snape can't have known that I
      could do that, could he? Nobody here knows what my capabilities
      are, right? Unless he can read minds... Nah. Will is my highest
      save, that would never work. But <em class="calibre7">Detect Poison</em> only
      detects, like, actual, literal <em class="calibre7">poison</em>," he continued. "It
      wouldn't say anything was wrong if this were say, a <em class="calibre7">Potion
      of</em> Bestow Curse or Potion of Horrid Wilting... No, potions
      only go up to 3rd-level spells... so the worst it could be is, say,
      a Potion of Inflict Critical Wounds, maybe, which would still be
      more than enough to kill me. Or whatever the closest analogue is in
      this world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, what?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if Snape is telling the truth and I don't drink tonight it
      I'll <em class="calibre7">die</em>." Milo ran his fingers through his hair. "Did
      Snape <em class="calibre7">really</em> give me an antidote that's technically
      poisonous just to fool my <em class="calibre7">Detect Poison</em> spell? And then
      make it into a lethal, but technically non-poisonous potion of some
      horrendous instant death spell once I'd concluded it wasn't really
      poisonous, at least in small doses, and therefore it's safe? Surely
      <em class="calibre7">nobody's</em> brain is that twisty..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yours is, mate," Ron pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if this is going to kill me, why did he put it in such an
      over-the-top flask?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Harry said, "I'm not really sure what you're talking
      about, but maybe he gave you that flask of doom so you'd think
      '<em class="calibre7">surely no-one would put actual poison in something like
      this</em>' and then you'd drink it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah!" Milo exclaimed. "You could be right! I'm going to
      <em class="calibre7">die</em> I never should have tried to speak to this useless
      rat!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Over on the other side of the common room, Hermione rolled her
      eyes, put her book aside, and stood up exasperatedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't help but overhear your anguished shrieks of, well,
      anguish," Hermione said walking over. "And why would Snape poison
      you with something everyone knows he gave you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you <em class="calibre7">do</em> think Snape's evil!" Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, dimwit," Hermione said, rolling her eyes again. "I said
      'assuming your half-brained theory is correct and Snape is evil,'
      first. Remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did?" Ron frowned. "I <em class="calibre7">don't</em> remember that,
      actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then try listening, next time, maybe?" Hermione asked testily.
      "Anyway," she continued as if Ron hadn't spoken, "if you drunk that
      and died, everyone would know Snape did it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd still be dead!" Milo protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I <em class="calibre7">meant</em> is, he wouldn't do it if it would reveal
      himself. Obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, because he explicitly stated it would kill me if I either
      didn't drink it or if I drank too much," Milo countered, speaking
      rapidly. "So say I do drink it and I die, he could just say, 'oh,
      that poor stupid boy, he must have overdosed himself by accident,
      what a tragedy, oh, me, I'm so sorry, he showed so much promise,
      mwa ha ha, we're all worse off for his untimely death, oh, the
      humanity.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, ask Madam Pomfrey," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ask her what?" Milo asked, perplexed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that's actually the antidote," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because she'd tell you. She's a mediwitch; she knows what she's
      doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't understand," Milo confessed. Asking adults for help was
      not something he, as an adventurer, had ever considered doing
      before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll use short, simple sentences so that even <em class="calibre7">you</em> can
      understand," Hermione said sharply. "Take this flask. Go to the
      hospital wing. Say, 'Madam Pomfrey, can you check that this is
      really acromantula antidote? I'm worried Snape gave me the wrong
      flask by accident.' She'll look at it and say, 'yes, this is the
      antidote, it's very dangerous so follow the directions precisely,'
      or, alternatively, say, 'no, that's distilled nightshade, among the
      deadlier poisons known to man.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's... a little unorthodox, but it just might work," Milo
      admitted. "But how do I know I can trust Madam Pomfrey? Actually,
      what if Snape <em class="calibre7">assumed</em> I would ask Pomfrey and deliberately
      made this here elixir of death to pass whatever test she would
      think of?" he asked. "Because he certainly outsmarted
      <em class="calibre7">mine</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione said. "<em class="calibre7">You</em> outsmarted <em class="calibre7">yourself</em>.
      Just drink it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the plus side," Ron said. "If you do drink it and die, that
      will prove you were right and Snape's evil and Hermione will help
      us stop him! It's a win-win."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...but I'll be dead," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't have everything, mate," Ron shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been outsmarted," Milo decided. "Whatever I decide, I'm
      probably falling for Snape's evil plan. I'll just... I'll flip a
      copper piece. Emperor, I drink it; Hydra, I don't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pulled out a copper from his Belt, and flipped it. It twirled
      four times in the air, and landed with a heavy thud on the
      table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The four of them stared at it in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," said Ron. "I... I didn't think that was even
      <em class="calibre7">possible</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is, without a doubt, highly improbable," Hermione
      conceded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The coin was sitting on the heavy wooden table, balanced
      perfectly on its edge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape leaned back in his leather chair, smiling. He knew he
      wasn't supposed to use Legilimency on students for his own
      amusement, but...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Even if I get sacked for this</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">it was,
      without a doubt, worth it.</em> He could only imagine the agony and
      indecision going through Milo's head after he'd left.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
