<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 9: Hallowe'en, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: Hallowe'en</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">When Milo walked downstairs Hallowe'en morning, he was greeted
      by utter bedlam:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I—I never thought this day would come," said Seamus. "Me mum
      always said it would, but... I guess I never really believed
      her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I, mean, it's surprising, but really, we've been ready
      for it," said Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I say it's about time it happened," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keeps us from having to live out the rest of our lives in
      suspense, just waiting for it to come," said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I lost everything," said Lee Jordan soberly.
      "Everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" asked Milo. "Did Vol—did You-Know-Who
      return?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" asked Fred. "You've lost it, mate, it's nothing like
      that—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Although to some, like our dear Lee here, it's arguably
      <em class="calibre7">worse</em>—" continued George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Teaches him to bet the farm on a sure thing—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Don't be snide, you're only happy because it's your farm,
      now—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Our farm, Fred, <em class="calibre7">our</em> farm—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, guys," Milo interrupted. "Can one of you just give me a
      straight answer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am led to believe," said Hermione Granger, sitting casually
      in an armchair, "that the Chudley Cannons went up against the
      Wigtown Wanderers this morning and actually <em class="calibre7">won</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, and this is supposed to be important?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey, <em class="calibre7">important</em>, mate!" said Ron, "That was the
      <em class="calibre7">Northwestern Regional Semi-Finals!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, to answer your question, <em class="calibre7">apparently,</em>" said
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Cannons haven't won a match in decades!" Ron exclaimed.
      "Their fan club, back when they had a fan club that is, well, its
      motto was <em class="calibre7">Let's all just keep our fingers crossed and hope for
      the best</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yawn," stated Milo. "Anyways, I have a sidequest to prepare
      for—and, for that matter, classes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of," Hermione said coyly, "what are you going to dress
      up as?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't actually have to <em class="calibre7">do</em> that, do I?" Milo
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, my, yes," said Hermione. "It's a prerequisite."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, that settled it. You can't ignore prerequisites. You can
      bend them, re-interpret them favourably, work around them, or
      barrel your way on through them, but you <em class="calibre7">can't</em> ignore
      them. Milo sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," he said. "So I'll survive all my classes, stop a dark
      vampire wizard from returning from the dead, foil an evil
      professor's schemes, and make a Hallowe'en costume before the start
      of my sidequest, which is at five o'clock sharp."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, before you go," Hermione said, as if she'd only just
      remembered, "make sure you take this with you. Wouldn't want you to
      be late for your... <em class="calibre7">sidequest</em>... with Ms. Abbot." She held
      out a small, pink strap of some sort. There was a sort of a doodad
      in the middle, Milo wasn't sure how to describe it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," he said, "thanks, I think. What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't even know what a watch – no. No, I'm not saying it.
      It's called a watch, Milo, it tells the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go figure. How's it work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's two hands, the short one points to the hour, the long
      one points to the minute... only, it's the hour times five. It's a
      bit complicated. Here..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She spent the next ten minutes trying to explain how the watch
      worked, before giving up and bewitching it. She assured him that it
      would remind him when it was time to leave, and there would be no
      possible way for him to miss it. She then apologized, saying she
      had a bad case of hiccups coming on and fled the common room
      cackling. Milo had read that the Muggles here had a ridiculous
      stereotype of witches, flying around in broomsticks with mad hair
      cackling away under a full moon. <em class="calibre7">Turns out all stereotypes
      really</em> are <em class="calibre7">grounded in fact somewhere down the line</em>,
      he thought. <em class="calibre7">Go figure.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was particularly wary when he went down to get breakfast.
      The other Gryffindors seemed absorbed in their discussion of the
      Cannons' latest victory, so they lingered behind. <em class="calibre7">At this
      rate</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">they'll miss their precious
      breakfast</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was vaguely aware that the food was sort of holiday themed
      (there was much orange and black in attendance), but as usual,
      stuck to his Everlasting Rations. As long as he had 'about a pound
      of decent food' per day, he'd be fine, and this was really just
      more convenient than all this <em class="calibre7">cutlery</em> business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hey Milo," said a round-faced boy sitting next to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Nev." Milo said. "What's new and relevant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I forgot where I left my Remembrall, I was wondering if
      you could do your trick...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's in your right pocket," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow! And I didn't even hear you cast it this time!" Neville
      said, grabbing the ball from his pocket. Like any other time it
      touched Neville's hands, it was glowing slightly red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't. You always keep it in your right pocket."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right—whoops!" the ball dropped out of his grasp, and fell
      towards the floor. The smoke in the glass ball turned black as soon
      it as left Neville's hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo reached to catch it, but with the distinct feeling of a
      failed Reflex Save, his fingers closed a second too late and he
      just wound up knocking it further away. It hit the cold stone floor
      and shattered all over the ground, but Milo was too distracted to
      care: in the instant that Milo's hands touched the ball, it glowed
      bright red. Brief as it was, there was no missing it. Before Milo
      could properly consider the problem, his thought process was
      interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Had a little accident, have we?" Milo heard an all-too familiar
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Malfoy, Mr. Coyle, Mr. Grabbe, pleased to see you," Milo
      said cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, after all that trouble Potter went through to get
      that ball back for you," Malfoy said to Neville with a sneer,
      "you'd think you'd take better care of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you just here to exchange banter, or is this more than
      purely a social call?" Milo asked. "I'm on a schedule, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Are you</em>, now?" Malfoy asked, his eyes suddenly alight.
      "The pressure starting to get to you? Distressed at seeing your
      plan fall all to pieces now, are we? I know what you're up to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What in the Hells is he</em> talking <em class="calibre7">about?</em> Milo
      wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't prove anything," Milo said, because it seemed
      appropriate. "And even if you could, you can <em class="calibre7">never</em> stop
      phase three," Milo said. He liked the sound of that <em class="calibre7">phase
      three</em>. It implied that there had already been not one, but
      <em class="calibre7">two</em> successful phases in whatever it was that Malfoy
      thought he was up to. Malfoy looked him up and down, closely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're bluffing," Malfoy determined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I am," Milo said. "Everything I said to you today was
      already a lie. Except this, of course." Milo leaned in close, and
      whispered, "or <em class="calibre7">is</em> it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy looked briefly perplexed, but recovered admirably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You act all tough," he said, "but <em class="calibre7">I know where you really
      come from</em>," he hissed. "And I know what you're trying to do.
      But it'll never work. My father's much too clever, and has too many
      friends, for it to work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...<em class="calibre7">What?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, we'll see about that," Milo said. <em class="calibre7">If I keep him
      talking, maybe he'll let something else slip.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed we shall," said Malfoy. "Why don't you just ask your
      friends in the Wigtown Wanderers what they think, eh? See if
      they've still got your back <em class="calibre7">now</em>," Malfoy laughed and
      walked away, flanked by his goons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was weird," Milo said to Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's really cool how you stand up to Malfoy," Neville
      said. "And, listen, are you going to eat your treacle tart? Can't
      remember where mine went."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No, it's all yours," Milo said absently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," said Neville from around the tart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, say Neville, any decent ideas for a Hallowe'en costume?
      Only apparently I need one for later this evening," Milo said.
      "It's got to look like a monster, but also allow enough movement
      that I can fight off <em class="calibre7">actual</em> monsters in it, if the need
      arises. Which it will, I'm sure of it. And I need easy access to my
      Belt of Hidden Pouches. No ideas, huh? That's cool, I'll think of
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It occurred to Milo that Neville wasn't responding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo glanced over at the boy, who was now slouched over the
      table, his face lying flat in a pumpkin pie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's odd," Milo said as he looked around the Great Hall for
      help; but was surprised to find that, now that Malfoy had left, it
      was empty. <em class="calibre7">What?</em> He wondered. <em class="calibre7">How is that even
      possible? This place is</em> never <em class="calibre7">empty...</em> Frantically,
      Milo reached into his Belt of Hidden Pouches and grabbed his small
      vial of Antitoxin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, Nev, we got to get you to the Hospital Wing.
      Upsie-Daisy," he said, pouring the Antitoxin down Neville's throat.
      It wasn't an antidote by any means, but it should help somewhat. He
      attempted to lift the (fairly heavy) boy, but failed to have much
      success. "Agh! Curse this 8 Strength! There's no helping it,
      <em class="calibre7">Levitate</em>." <em class="calibre7">I'd hoped to get to the evening with all of
      my 2</em><em class="calibre7">nd</em><em class="calibre7">-level spell slots intact. Never seems to
      work that way, does it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville floated gently off the floor, and Milo gave him a solid
      push in the general direction of the door. He followed along,
      pushing Neville occasionally to keep him moving. Once he made it to
      the corridor, he broke into a run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Out of my way!" he shouted, scattering a bunch of students Milo
      didn't recognize. <em class="calibre7">Probably Hufflepuffs, then</em>. Neville was
      floating in front of him, looking decidedly unhealthy. The boy was
      shaking and growing increasingly pale as Milo pushed him along in
      front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Why was the Great Hall empty?</em> Milo wondered. <em class="calibre7">How
      could that happen?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ickle wickle firsties," Milo heard an aggravating voice taunt
      from above. "Why is the ickle firstie floating? Are we using magic
      in the halls? Naughty, naughty firsties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have time for this, Peeves!" Milo snarled, rounding a
      corner. "I think Neville could <em class="calibre7">die</em>, so don't try
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Firsties always so <em class="calibre7">dramatic</em>," said the still-invisible
      poltergeist, "never see the joke, never see the laughs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo decided to just ignore the taunting spectre. If he
      absolutely <em class="calibre7">had</em> to, he could use a <em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em> to
      chase him away with an image of the Baron again, but Milo really
      had to conserve his magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo, running at maximum speed and <em class="calibre7">decidedly</em> distracted
      (the most commonly forgotten -5 penalty to Spot checks known to
      man), never noticed the oil slick Peeves had placed in the
      corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo slipped backwards, hitting his head on the floor. Neville,
      however, continued to float at Milo's running speed down the wrong
      corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"PEEVES!" Milo shouted. "Come out and face me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Face</em> you?" Peeves asked. "But of course!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A cream pie (nobody knew where Peeves got them from; the
      house-elves stopped making cream pies two hundred and thirty five
      years ago to try and discourage him. It didn't work.) materialized
      out of thin air and hit Milo in the face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a coward, you know that?" Milo asked. "You're even
      scared of a <em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em> of the Bloody Baron." Alright, it
      wasn't the smoothest sounding sentence ever, but Milo had to find
      some way to work <em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em> into conversation without
      making it obvious he was casting a spell. An image of the Baron
      drifted towards them from around the corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lies and Tricks!" Peeves shouted. "Lies and Tricks! Lies and
      Lies and Lies and Tricks! The Baron is in the Dungeons!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was already late for Potions, and hed'd lost sight of
      Neville. Milo stood up and wiped the cream out of his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, Peeves, you leave me no choice but to destroy you,"
      Milo said, lying through his teeth. "I call upon the fell arcane
      might of Corellon Larethian!" Corellon was the god of elves, but
      there was no <em class="calibre7">possible</em> way that Peeves could know that.
      Milo, who still had an active and alterable <em class="calibre7">Silent Image</em>
      available, made the Baron vanish and redirected the spell at
      himself. His eyes started to glow white, and thirteen slender
      columns of white fire appeared about him in slowly rotating circle.
      Milo had once seen a Meteor Storm cast by an epic Sorcerer, and it
      hadn't looked half so impressive as this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic in the halls! Magic in the halls! Filch!" Peeves called
      from wherever he was hiding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the name of Corellon Larethian, God of... of <em class="calibre7">Doom</em>,
      I abjure thee!" Milo shouted. He threw in some illusory mist for
      atmosphere and made it appear as though a pair of giant, purple
      eyes slowly opened from behind him. Milo was making this up
      entirely as he went by now, and wasn't really sure what he would do
      if Peeves didn't run away. Fortunately, bravery was not the
      poltergeist's strong suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! No! No doom, no doom!" Peeves wailed, and fled. Milo
      dismissed the spell and ran after Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What," Madam Pomfrey asked as the cream-covered Milo entered
      her domain at the speed of sound, pushing a floating Neville
      Longbottom in front of him. "is the meaning of this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn't... have... dumped... Constitution..." Milo panted
      between breaths.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, what about the Constitution?" Pomfrey asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poison," Milo managed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've poisoned the Constitution?" Pomfrey asked. "Isn't it,
      you know, a sheet of parchment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville!" Milo sputtered. He <em class="calibre7">really</em> needed to catch
      his breath; he felt like he was going to faint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean to suggest that <em class="calibre7">Neville</em> poisoned the
      Constitution?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo groaned. Why did this keep happening to him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville's... been... poisoned!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, my lord! Why didn't you say so at once? Quick, get him on
      the cot!" The stern mediwitch grabbed her wand immediately and
      started casting what Milo presumed where diagnostic
      divinations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were just in the Great Hall," Milo said. "He was having
      breakfast, then I turned around and found him face down in some
      pie. So I rushed him here as fast as I could."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the food made him float, did it? Most unusual..." Pomfrey
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No, I Levitated him," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh? Impressive. Now get out, so I can try and save his life
      without distractions. He'll probably wind up in St. Mungo's
      again... poor boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Milo said, and bolted from the room. He had to make it
      to the Dungeons in... negative twelve minutes. <em class="calibre7">Ah,
      Hells.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He eventually stumbled into the Potions class twenty minutes
      late, still covered in cream and bits of pie crust, drenched in
      sweat, and gasping for air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're late," Snape said shortly, "by twenty-one minutes.
      Twenty-one points from Gryffindor, and detention this evening
      immediately after your Defence Class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But... Peeves..." Milo started to say, but immediately knew it
      was the wrong choice of words. Peeves hadn't been an acceptable
      excuse for tardiness for years. Snape just shook his head silently,
      then went back to berating Harry for his latest minor mistake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo groaned. He hadn't been awake for an hour and he'd already
      lost twenty-one House Points and two of his very limited number of
      spells per day. And now he'd have to suffer the humiliation of
      utterly failing to make a potion again. <em class="calibre7">Well, there's nothing
      else to do</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">than follow the directions on the
      chalk board and hope for the best</em>. <em class="calibre7">Sigh.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy gave him a smug look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Ron," Milo whispered, "where was everyone during
      breakfast?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, most of the Gryffindors were too busy caught up talking
      about the Cannons' latest victory to bother eating, and I imagine
      it was more-or-less the same with the other Houses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Hermione loathes Quidditch, why didn't she come down?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't say for sure," Ron said slyly, "but I <em class="calibre7">think</em>
      she was enjoying making snide remarks too much to leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Neville? He was there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dunno, mate," Ron admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nev was rushed to St. Mungo's yesterday," Harry supplied,
      "after one of Fred and George's pranks got out of hand. I guess he
      only just got back. Where is he, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poisoned," Milo said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No talking!" Snape snapped. "Five points from each of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione groaned. Gryffindor was rapidly approaching zero
      points, and it was largely their fault.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rest of Potions was uneventful, with the exception that
      Snape seemed incredibly pleased with himself. <em class="calibre7">If he were a
      normal human</em>, Milo thought, <em class="calibre7">he'd probably be humming to
      himself.</em> As it stood, he was simply sneering just a little
      less – not that this made him any more pleasant to be around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo ran his fingers through his hair nervously as he left the
      Dungeons. Detention after Defence class... well, the class normally
      ran until three, but Quirrell had said he had something special
      planned for his Hallowe'en lesson. <em class="calibre7">That should still leave me
      with plenty of time to make my costume for five, assuming Snape
      doesn't go overboard.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">My plan relies on Snape's mercy.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crap.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've got half an hour before Transfiguration," Harry said from
      behind him. "Want to visit Nev?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Milo asked distractedly. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhm," said Harry. "Because he's our friend? And he's sick?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right, yeah. Friendship. Let's go, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, really, it's fine," Neville said, lying on his hospital
      bed. "Actually, it's a shame it wasn't more severe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Why?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's just that if I go to St. Mungo's one more time, I
      get a free ice cream," Neville said. Harry chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what happened, anyway?" Potter asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Pomfrey says I ingested lethal quantities of arsenic,
      deadly nightshade, cyanide, chlorine, and ricin this morning," the
      round-faced boy explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave a low whistle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't even know what half of those even <em class="calibre7">are</em>," he
      admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's no problem at all," Neville said. "Madam Pomfrey says that
      as soon as I regain feeling in my limbs, I can go back to
      class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would anyone want to poison you, Nev?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They weren't trying to poison him," Milo said simply. "They
      were trying to poison <em class="calibre7">me</em>. What's more, I know who did
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Who?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh, that's unusual. The scene's supposed to change after I
      make a dramatic announcement like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. We should head to Transfiguration, or we'll be late and
      lose more points."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it turned out, they were late anyways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two points from Gryffindor," McGonagall said sternly. The rest
      of the class sat down and attempted, with varying levels of
      success, to turn pumpkins into teapots. Milo, however, was given
      the same matchstick he'd had at the start of the year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't let you start on teapots until you've managed to
      transfigure more than just the colour of the stick, young man. I'm
      sorry," she explained, then sighed. "If you can manage to change
      its weight, sound—that is, the sound it makes when
      dropped—<em class="calibre7">or</em> shape <em class="calibre7">at all</em>," she added, "then I'll
      let you move on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frantically pulled out his spellbook and re-read the
      description of <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>. There was nothing in
      there about anything beyond colour. He bit his lip. There was a
      sewing needle in his Belt of Hidden Pouches, but Milo assumed that
      other students had tried to pull that one in the past and
      McGonagall probably had a way to tell the difference. He hadn't
      prepared <em class="calibre7">Ghost Sound</em>, which could create illusory sounds,
      but even if he had he probably couldn't get the timing right to
      make a <em class="calibre7">ping!</em> sound at the exact moment the pin hit the
      table. If he'd prepared <em class="calibre7">Mage Hand</em>, a weak telekinesis
      spell, he could <em class="calibre7">maybe</em> push down <em class="calibre7">very gently</em> on
      the pin to simulate the metal's higher density, but his only
      0th-level spells were <em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em>,
      <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>, and <em class="calibre7">Acid Splash</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo ran his fingers through his hair nervously. There was
      absolutely no way he could turn this stick into a pin using his
      arcane magic. He had one last, desperate ploy...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He slowly withdrew his wand from its pocket and, following the
      directions that Milo had only ever half-listened to, focused on the
      image of a pin in his mind. He imagined every curve, the metallic
      glint, the <em class="calibre7">slightly</em> heavier mass, and the steely sound a
      pin makes when dropped. With all of that in his mind he, very
      carefully, tapped the wand on the matchstick and held his breath.
      He closed his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come on, secret wizard powers, activate!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't <em class="calibre7">feel</em> anything happen, and very slowly opened
      one eye to peer at, hopefully, a shiny new pin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nuts," Milo muttered. It was probably for the best, though as
      he might have been stuck multiclassing into two primary casting
      classes—or in layman's terms, permanently magically handicapped.
      Milo could use the oil he kept in his Belt of Hidden Pouches to
      create a fire and sneak out in the ensuing chaos... no, these
      wizards could create water. Milo sighed. He raised his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" asked McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," Milo said quietly, then stopped. He looked around
      at the other Gryffindors in the room. Harry was looking at him with
      an unreadable expression, Ron was trying to find his wand on the
      ground under his desk, and Hermione was studiously examining her
      newly-transfigured teakettle. He'd never been quite sure what they
      thought about him. Milo was certain none of them
      <em class="calibre7">completely</em> believed his story about being from another
      world altogether, so they probably thought he was mad. Milo was
      okay with that. All the <em class="calibre7">really</em> brilliant Wizards looked at
      least a little mad to outsiders. At times, they were
      impressed—<em class="calibre7">seriously</em> impressed—with what he could do with
      magic. He was the only student below fourth year who could
      efficiently deal with Peeves, and his defeat of the Acromantula in
      September was very nearly legendary. His nightly <em class="calibre7">Scholar's
      Touch</em>-enhanced studying had made him the top student in
      <em class="calibre7">History of Magic</em>, much to Hermione's chagrin. But... other
      times, times when he didn't have the right spell prepared, times
      when he asked "what's Quidditch?", times when he'd run out of
      spells per day, times when Arcane magic just <em class="calibre7">couldn't do
      something</em> – times like <em class="calibre7">this</em>, they just looked at him
      with pity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" the Professor asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But there was more at stake here than his own pride, although
      there was that, too. What would Mordenkainen—the legendary wizard,
      not the rat—say about this? What about Elminster, Treantmonk, and
      Otiluke? <em class="calibre7">Sorry, legendary wizards, it turns out I found another
      universe and their magic is superior to ours. Best put away your
      spellbooks, start naming your currency after sailing ships, and
      drop by Ollivanders for wands if you want to keep up.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But what <em class="calibre7">could</em> he do? <em class="calibre7">Polymorph Any Object</em> was
      <em class="calibre7">eighth level</em>. Eighth! Most Wizards never made it past
      3rd-level spells. By the time Milo could turn this match into a
      pin, if he ever even got that high level, he'd be able to alter
      reality to his liking. He'd be going toe-to-toe with Wyrms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Even</em> <em class="calibre7">Wizards can't do everything</em>, he reminded
      himself, <em class="calibre7">so there's no shame in admitting defeat</em>. <em class="calibre7">It
      takes a Cleric to heal... well, actually, a Wizard could just
      summon a monster that can heal people for him. It takes a Rogue to
      pick a lock... actually, that's not true, a Wizard could just
      cast</em> Knock<em class="calibre7">. Okay, a Rogue to sneak around... no, Wizards
      can cast</em> Invisibility<em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Ah, screw it. So maybe Wizards</em> can <em class="calibre7">do everything.
      But not all at once, not all in one day, not with only one Wizard,
      and not all at level three.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I – I can't do it," Milo admitted bitterly. "I can't turn one
      thing into another like this. It just can't be done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall remained silent for a moment, her eyes boring holes
      into his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," she said simply. "Well then. Drop by my office after
      your Defence class and we'll decide what to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have, uh, prior arrangements," Milo confessed. The other
      students avoided making eye contact with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then cancel them," McGonagall said simply. "Your education must
      come first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll, ah, have to take that up with Professor Snape," Milo
      said. "I've got detention. Again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall briefly covered her face with her hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. Come afterwards as soon as you can," she said, then
      left to go help Ron, who had only managed to transfigure his
      pumpkin into another pumpkin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo then realized his mistake: there was still half an hour
      left to Transfiguration class, and it was going to be
      <em class="calibre7">awkward</em> without anything to do. <em class="calibre7">Next time</em>, he
      thought, <em class="calibre7">if there ever is a next time, never admit defeat
      without an exit strategy.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo spent the time trying to figure out what to use as his
      Hallowe'en costume, but hadn't made any progress by the time the
      Professor dismissed them for lunch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Harry asked him expectantly as they walked towards the
      Great Hall, "Who did it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did what, convinced the capricious, adolescent, vengeful,
      <em class="calibre7">petty</em> being who runs the universe to make my life as
      difficult as possible? Me. It's my fault for trying to push
      Spontaneous Divination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You shouldn't talk like that," Hermione said. "You might offend
      someone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he's already pretty offended," Milo said. "That's sort
      of what I was getting at."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione asked. "Wait, you think you offended God? Wait,
      <em class="calibre7">you believe in God?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wha?" Milo asked. "Gods? Sure, there's loads of 'em. Not
      believing in them is like not believing in magic. In fact, it's
      <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> like not believing in magic—ask a Cleric."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, no, I meant—" Hermione began as they entered the Great
      Hall, but Harry, uncharacteristically, cut her off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre7">I</em> meant, who poisoned Neville?" Harry said. Milo
      waited to respond until they'd approached the person he was looking
      for. Milo crept up directly behind him</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Draco Malfoy</em>," Milo said, simultaneously to answer
      Harry's question and get Malfoy's attention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it's you," said the blond Slytherin, jumping slightly.
      "What do you wa—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This morning Neville Longbottom was poisoned," Milo cut him
      off. "It was by someone attempting to get at me. Someone, probably,
      with access to Snape's storerooms, someone with an inexplicable
      grudge against me, someone with access to my food, and someone
      <em class="calibre7">stupid</em> enough not to watch me long enough to realize I
      never eat any food offered me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you blabbering on ab—" Malfoy began, but was cut off
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would narrow it down to a limited list of suspects, but
      you even practically told me who did it. You arrogantly bragged
      <em class="calibre7">something</em> about the Quidditch game, frankly I wasn't
      really listening, but you seemed to think a victory for the
      Wrongton Wunderbars, or whatever, was a problem for me. So I
      thought, <em class="calibre7">what made you think I care about Quidditch?</em> And
      realized, nothing. You <em class="calibre7">knew</em> I don't care about Quidditch,
      no, you wanted the Great Hall empty this morning. So the
      <em class="calibre7">ridiculously</em> circuitous plot that your twisted brain
      invented was to somehow rig the Quidditch Midwestern Final
      Pseudo-Regionals so that <em class="calibre7">all the students in Hogwarts</em>
      would be so busy being flabbergasted about their beloved Cuddly
      Cannons losing that they'd skip breakfast. All the students except
      for <em class="calibre7">me</em>, that is – me and Neville, who came in from St.
      Mungo's. And so you poisoned my treacle tart where there would be
      no-one to help me. Draco Malfoy, <em class="calibre7">you tried to poison me</em>.
      And you would have gotten away with it, if it wasn't for my
      Everlasting Rations. And the fact that you came by to gloat in the
      middle of the assassination attempt. I mean,
      <em class="calibre7">seriously</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He had me up until 'Wrongton Wunderbars,'" Ron said quietly to
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was the Pseudo-Regionals that got me," admitted the
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Cuddly Cannons</em>," Hermione laughed. An uncharitable
      person would call the sound she made a giggle, because while it was
      still politically correct to have giggling girls in a piece of
      literature in 1991, this is no longer the case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy stared at Milo completely disbelievingly for a moment,
      then laughed. His laugh was like a Wizard's power progression by
      level: it started slow and weak enough to lose a fair fight with a
      cat on occasion, worked its way up gradually to defeating, with
      some difficulty, Hobgoblins and Bugbears, then in the snap of a
      finger was suplexing the laws of physics and ruling the universe
      before breakfast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You seriously think I tried to <em class="calibre7">poison</em> you? Milo, if my
      family wanted you dead, you wouldn't still be standing here. And
      besides, that's not why I rigged the Quidditch game, and you know
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, he <em class="calibre7">actually</em>—" said Ron, flabbergasted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This whole wild accusation is just to divert attention from the
      blow I struck to your <em class="calibre7">real</em> masters," Malfoy sneered, "and
      only serves to underscore your own defeat. <em class="calibre7">Fool</em>." With
      that, Draco spun on his heels, and started walking away. Then he
      paused, and turned around. "Actually, this is <em class="calibre7">my</em> table.
      Gryffindor's is back over there. <em class="calibre7">You</em> leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap," Milo muttered when they got back to their table. "I was
      pretty sure, like, 70% <em class="calibre7">at least</em>, that it was Malfoy who
      did it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno," Ron said. "I still think it could have been him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," Milo said. "If it was, he either would have denied
      <em class="calibre7">everything</em>, or fessed up and challenged me to an honour
      duel or something. He admitted to being behind the Quidditch thing,
      so it can't have been him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what <em class="calibre7">was</em> he trying to do? What did he mean by 'your
      real masters?'" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who knows? Who cares?" Milo shrugged. "Anybody want my treacle
      tart?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
