<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 11: The Troll and the Dementor, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fa...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: The Troll and the Dementor</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: I've gone back and changed the scene breaks on
      earlier chapters to the o—o that I use now, which actually appears
      on Fanfiction. Also, I've edited some cases of the word Wizard to
      standardize capitalization: Capital W refers to the D&amp;D Wizard
      class, lower-case wizard refers to Harry Potter wizards. However,
      I've probably missed a lot of them, but that's what I'll be using
      from here on out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All students, return <em class="calibre7">immediately</em> to your Common
      Rooms," said a beleaguered Professor Trelawney—an attack by a Troll
      was enough to knock even the Divinations Professor out of her usual
      half-asleep daze—to a group of Gryffindors lounging in the Great
      Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me, Professor," said Percy, the Gryffindor Prefect.
      "what's going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a Troll loose on the second floor!" she said anxiously.
      "And to think of all the poor students who saw the Grim
      today..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right! Just leave it to me, Professor," said Percy, standing to
      his full height (as if that would do much against the
      twelve-foot-tall monstrosity on the loose). "Gryffindors, come with
      me! Are we missing anyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Gryffindors, mostly first years, looked around at each
      other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hannah's outside, by the Lake," said Lavender Brown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Milo's with Snape," said Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Professor</em> Snape, Ronald," corrected Percy. "And he'll
      be fine if he's with a professor. I'll find Hannah after I've
      walked you all to the tower, come along—<em class="calibre7">quickly</em>, now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, Ron, and Hermione shared a quick look as the other
      Gryffindors started filing out of the massive room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape must have released the Troll!" Harry exclaimed to the
      others. "We've got to go find Milo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Professor</em> Snape can't have released the Troll, the key
      was in the Headmaster's office," said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what, Dumbledore set the Troll loose? <em class="calibre7">Obviously</em>
      someone must have pulled a fast one on him," said Ron. "And now
      Milo's alone with old batface, and it's a <em class="calibre7">perfect</em> time to
      just throw him out a window and say the Troll did it. Let's
      <em class="calibre7">go</em>, Hermione," Ron pleaded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm done talking," Harry said. "Our friend could be in danger
      <em class="calibre7">right now</em>. Hannah's outside, she's probably the safest of
      all of us. I'm going, with or without you two," and with that,
      Harry stood up from his table and walked away from the group.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter!" said Percy. "Where are you <em class="calibre7">going</em>? The
      Common Room is <em class="calibre7">that</em> way!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Going with Trelawney," lied Harry. "To help find the
      Hufflepuffs—you know how they are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good man!" said Percy. "Best take Ronald with you—he could use
      someone like you as a role model. Well—good luck," he said, and
      left leading the others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Someone like you as a role model</em>," sneered Ron.
      "Wonder what he'd say about that if you knew you lied right to his
      face? Grumblegrumblegrumble..." Ron trailed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, I'm coming with you. <em class="calibre7">Someone</em> has to keep
      you two from getting into trouble," she said airily. Secretly, her
      heart was racing with excitement and anticipation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great job you've done so far," said Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough talking," snapped Harry. "Wands out, and let's
      <em class="calibre7">go</em>, already. Hermione—ask the paintings if they've seen
      Milo or Snape anywhere. They'll talk to you, you're top of all our
      classes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not History of Magic," said Hermione, her face flushing
      slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, keep an eye out for teachers and prefects," said Harry.
      "Oh, and rampaging Trolls."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Why</em>, Milo wondered (briefly), <em class="calibre7">am I looking</em> up
      <em class="calibre7">at the floor?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre7">Thud</em>—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo hit the ground—<em class="calibre7">hard</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have to stop <em class="calibre7">doing</em> that," he groaned. He'd gotten
      lucky and made his Reflex Save for half damage when the Troll
      dropped a wall on his face, but was somewhat less fortunate on his
      follow-up Grapple check to avoid being thrown across the room. A
      normal human would have broken numerous bones or died, but
      adventurers are somewhat more resilient than that. In total, he'd
      taken 8 points of damage—and for those of you keeping track back
      home, that put him at precisely 0 hp. That left him Disabled,
      meaning he can <em class="calibre7">either</em> shuffle about slowly <em class="calibre7">or</em> try
      to attack (or cast a spell), but doing the latter will knock him
      unconscious and dying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo crawled slowly around a corner, and tried to stay as silent
      as possible. <em class="calibre7">Next time</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">make sure there's
      a Potion of Cure Light Wounds in your Belt of Hidden
      Pouches.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape was nowhere to be seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I need a distraction</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Mordy," he whispered to his familiar. He had a bad
      feeling that, in a few levels, when Mordy could speak back, he'd be
      getting an earful for this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordenkainen, rodent extraordinaire, leapt out of his home in
      Milo's belt and scurried around the corner to the Troll. Milo
      couldn't see what happened, but heard a mighty roar worthy of an
      Elder Wyrm, and then a loud crash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the alleged Troll was occupied, Milo got to work. Reaching
      into his Belt, he grabbed his flasks of oil and unstoppered their
      lids. Oil from his universe goes a long way, and was enough to
      cover a five-foot square. The hallway was closer to ten feet wide,
      and so Milo used four flasks to cover the whole hallway ten feet
      deep. He then spread caltrops (nasty, spiky contraptions) across
      the hallway as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lastly, he (very carefully) took out a small, extremely valuable
      feather. The feather, much stiffer and heavier than a mundane
      feather, was one of Milo's most treasured possessions. It only
      worked once, and, while he had three of them, he wasn't getting any
      more until he could return home. Gingerly, he placed it on the
      ground in the oil, surrounded by caltrops.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, <em class="calibre7">ugly</em>!" Milo shouted around the corner. "Leave my
      friend alone!" On cue, Mordy scurried away from the Troll, up
      Milo's leg, and into his magic belt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Troll gave a mighty roar and charged Milo's position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned an evil sort of grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Troll placed its first heavy footstep on the oil-slick
      polished stone floor, it lost its balance. It slid forwards a few
      feet, an almost comical expression of surprise on its ugly
      features. It then fell backwards onto the hard floor—and the
      scattered caltrops. They weren't even close to powerful enough to
      deal any real damage, but all Milo needed was to keep the troll in
      position for a round. The Troll let loose a bellow of pain that
      shook the castle as Milo muttered the command word to his
      <em class="calibre7">Feather Token</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For those unfamiliar, the <em class="calibre7">Tree Feather Token</em> is the
      most useful magic item ever devised. On command, it instantly
      creates an entirely real, nonmagical oak tree five feet wide and
      sixty feet tall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a swift, sudden breeze and a loud <em class="calibre7">pop</em> as a
      tree <em class="calibre7">appeared</em> in front of Milo. It didn't <em class="calibre7">grow</em>,
      it didn't start small and swell up, it was just <em class="calibre7">there</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ceilings in Hogwarts were as varied as the halls, paintings,
      and geography on a day-to-day basis, but <em class="calibre7">here</em> they were
      only eight feet tall (the Troll had to stoop). The tree, which
      appeared <em class="calibre7">directly underneath</em> the Troll, blasted it through
      the ceiling. And the one after that. And the one after
      <em class="calibre7">that</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In total, the Troll was pushed bodily through seven floors,
      including three hallways, two unused classrooms, Professor Binn's
      quarters, and the Hufflepuff common room, which was now home to the
      forty-foot-wide canopy of a great oak tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quaal," Milo said weakly to the mythical inventor of the
      <em class="calibre7">Feather Tokens</em>, "I'm leaving <em class="calibre7">everything</em> to you in
      my will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crash</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," said Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crash</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre7">really</em> can't be good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crash</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll just hobble away at half speed, shall I?" Milo limped down
      the hallway, which ended in a dead-end, and a large window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crash.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo!" Milo heard someone say. "We're here, to, ah, rescue
      you..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crash.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey, was this great, dirty old tree always here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Crash.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron!" said a sharp, female voice, "Careful, watch where you
      step. Someone's booby trapped the ha—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">CRASH.</em> The ceiling caved in, and the Troll (heavily
      battered and bruised, but still in the game, so to speak) landed,
      gracelessly, directly behind Milo. Fortunately, it was looking away
      from him. Milo stood there breathlessly, trying to make as little
      noise as possible. <em class="calibre7">Maybe it will just... go away? That could
      happen, ri</em>—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's watch chimed, loudly, and then started to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Milo's got a da-ate, Milo's got a da-ate!</em>" it sang
      cheerfully. "<em class="calibre7">Don't be late, don't be late, 'cause Milo's got a
      da-ate!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, uh, hi there. See, the thing with the tree, that was
      nothing personal, right?" Milo said weakly. "So, why don't we just
      put this behind us—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Troll grabbed Milo with one arm, and, with a casual
      underhanded swing, neatly defenestrated him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, who had boldly ran across the slick, spiky hallway,
      frantically tried to help; but the young Wizard was out of sight
      before Harry was halfway through "<em class="calibre7">Wingardium</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the Troll turned to face the three under-trained,
      under-prepared, under-aged wizards (well, two wizards and a
      witch).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The glass shredded Milo's already scorched and torn robes, but
      fortunately his <em class="calibre7">Mage Armour</em> protected his skin from the
      worst of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo made a high, graceful arc over the Hogwarts Lake before he
      managed to stop blubbering long enough to cast <em class="calibre7">Feather
      Fall</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Our Hero, covered in dust and soot, his black robes in tatters,
      his hat missing, his shoelaces untied, slowly floated to the
      ground, landing, as it would happen, in the arms of a giant pink
      bunny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amazing Dementor costume!" Hannah (in fancy dress) exclaimed.
      "Nice entrance, too!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned briefly, then collapsed as his hit points dropped
      into the negatives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Concealed by his <em class="calibre7">Disillusionment</em> charm, Snape
      waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Cerberus slept, the low rumble of its triple snore shaking
      the floor slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Snape waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outside, the Troll was very likely killing one of his
      students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Snape waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His quarry was as invisible as he, but Snape had an advantage:
      the bane of all invisible wizards, everywhere. One that would stop
      the Dark Lord himself, were he invisible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door was closed. Quirrell would make his move—soon.
      Releasing the Troll was an obvious distraction to allow him to get
      in here unnoticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Snape waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The good-natured Muggle Studies Professor had come back from
      Romania... different. Something had happened to him there, and it
      hadn't been vampires. The good-natured Muggle Studies Professor was
      gone, now. The Headmaster knew something, but whatever it was, he
      kept it to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Snape waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The castle shook, and a deafeningly loud <em class="calibre7">CRASH</em> shook
      the room. One of the Cerberus's heads, jostled out of its slumber,
      perked up curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Snape waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The doorknob turned slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Snape waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Roots, of all things, slipped through the cracks in the masonry,
      breaking apart the mortar. The walls buckled slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Snape waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened, and closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Snape waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, Hermione," said Ron anxiously. "If you were planning on
      doing anything <em class="calibre7">smart</em>, now would be the time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione simply stood staring up at the Troll, her face
      pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron!" Harry shouted, barely dodging a large stone block. "What
      spells do we know?" The block, thrown by the Troll, exploded on the
      wall behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh. There's the one that makes our wands glow," he said. "and
      we can Transfigure teakettles. Sh-should we Transfigure
      teakettles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about <em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>?" Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno," Ron said skeptically. "That Troll looks a
      <em class="calibre7">little</em> heavier than a textbook to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not the Troll, the blocks!" Harry realized. Desperately, they
      began Levitating anything in sight—stone blocks, the weird spiky
      metal things, paintings—over the Troll's head and dropping them. It
      was, it appeared, only marginally effective. The Troll's thick
      skull was made of sterner stuff than even the thousand-year-old
      masonry. <em class="calibre7">If I get out of this</em>, Harry resolved, <em class="calibre7">I'm
      going to learn how wizards fight</em>. <em class="calibre7">And I'm going to be the
      best there is.</em> Nothing <em class="calibre7">is going to threaten my home</em>
      ever <em class="calibre7">again.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...to all those who ask," Harry heard Hermione whisper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that?" Harry asked, his brow drenched in sweat from
      the effort of Levitating the stone blocks that once made up the
      walls of his beloved castle. <em class="calibre7">His</em> castle. This Troll would
      regret the <em class="calibre7">second</em> it scuffed the first
      <em class="calibre7">candlestick</em> in his castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Portraits of Hogwarts!</em>" Hermione roared. "Run! Run to
      your neighbours, shout, scream, <em class="calibre7">anything</em>. Find the
      Headmaster, or McGonagall, or Flitwick, Filch, <em class="calibre7">anyone</em>." A
      nearby painting of a knight drew its sword and saluted, and with a
      cry of "Yes, My Lady!" rode away on its stallion. The others just
      stared at her, stunned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, <em class="calibre7">I never</em>," said a portrait of a fat lady (but not
      <em class="calibre7">the</em> Fat Lady) in an evening gown. "The <em class="calibre7">nerve</em> of
      students these days, why, in <em class="calibre7">my</em> day, they employed the
      <em class="calibre7">whip</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Couldn't have said it better myself, Agnes," said a
      bespectacled man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">RUN!</em>" she screamed at the paintings again. She didn't
      need to tell them a third time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right!" said Harry. "Now we just need to slow it down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Ron dismally, "assuming we can rely on
      <em class="calibre7">Agnes</em> to talk to Dumbledore about anything other than the
      state of today's youth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, do you know any spell to create fire? Or sparks?"
      Harry asked. Hermione shot a questioning look at him, before
      realizing what his plan was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Incendio</em>," she cast, pointing her wand at Milo's
      oilslick. The lantern oil erupted in flame, which quickly spread to
      the great oak tree. There wasn't enough flammable material to
      create anything so impressive as a wall of fire, but it
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> create a lot of smoke. Fortunately for the paint-based
      residents of Hogwarts, all of the living portraits had fled the
      area at Hermione's instructions earlier; unfortunately, their homes
      were caught in the inferno. The Troll was blinded by smoke, and
      started coughing hoarsely as it flailed its fists around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about wind? Harry asked. "We need as much dust in there as
      possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, there's the Gust Jinx," admitted Hermione skeptically,
      "but it's advanced. third-year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, can you cast it or not?" Harry pushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well... I've read about it," she said hesitantly. "I've never,
      you know, actually <em class="calibre7">tried</em> it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No pressure or anything," urged Ron, "but if you mess up, we'll
      probably all die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's forehead wrinkled in concentration. She very
      carefully (and slowly) placed her feet in the fencing-like casting
      position used when performing complicated magic, and pictured the
      page in <em class="calibre7">The Standard Book of Spells, Volume 3</em> that
      described the wand motions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Swish, flick, counter-swirl, three-quarters-twirl-clockwise,
      diamond-inside-a-circle, <em class="calibre7">VENTUS!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It started gradually, building up strength somewhere behind
      Hermione. She felt her robes stir gently, and her hair started to
      rustle. At first, she thought she must have botched the spell (a
      thought which mortified her to her core), and then it happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a rush of air that nearly knocked her from her feet,
      whipping her curly hair around her head. Dust from the ruined
      hallway was picked up from the walls, floors, the children's
      clothes, and from under the heavy masonry. Hermione
      <em class="calibre7">thought</em> Harry's plan was to fan the flames with more air,
      until...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The third-floor window that Milo had flown out of exploded. A
      blossom of red fire erupted from the remains of the frame, leaving
      spots in Hannah's eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That," she said, "<em class="calibre7">can't</em> be good." She drew her wand
      anxiously, but wasn't sure, exactly, what she should be doing with
      it. She was, technically, a witch... but needing magic for a
      potentially life-or-death situation wasn't something she thought
      would ever happen. In fact, needing magic for <em class="calibre7">anything</em>
      outside of class had simply never occurred to her. Imagine suddenly
      finding yourself having to calculate how long it would take a sedan
      accelerating at 6 m/s2 to a maximum of 80 km/h to catch up to a
      truck moving at 60 km/h with a forty-five-minute head start...
      <em class="calibre7">to save the Prime Minister</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That, in a nutshell, is what Hannah felt like.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">First things first</em>, she thought, <em class="calibre7">deal with the
      unconscious boy</em>. What Hannah <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> know was that
      Milo, not simply unconscious, was, in fact, <em class="calibre7">dying</em>. Every
      six seconds he'd drop one hit point until hitting negative ten,
      when he'd buy the proverbial Outer Plane farm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That leaves her, for those of you keeping score, fifty-four
      seconds to stabilize him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fifty-three...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fifty-two...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, I should, uh, probably get you to the hostpital—uh,
      hopsital, uh. Ah. Hospital wing," she said. In another life, Hannah
      was a Hufflepuff. And Hufflepuffs, not that there's anything wrong
      with them, wonderful, wonderful people, are not typically noted
      (with the notable exception of the dreamy third-year Cedric
      Diggory) for keeping their heads in a crisis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Locomotor Mortis!"</em> she cast, and Milo's legs locked
      together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Forty-two...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, wait! Wrong spell, I'm sorry!" she stressed. It was that
      last bit, the <em class="calibre7">Mortis</em> part. "<em class="calibre7">Locomotor Milo!</em>" she
      cast, and Milo floated into the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirty-six...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, maybe I should counter that Leg-Locker Curse, now that I
      think about it," she said. "<em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem</em>," she cast.
      Milo fell back to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirty...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, of course, that cancelled <em class="calibre7">Locomotor</em> as well.
      <em class="calibre7">Locomotor Milo!</em>" she cast again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty-four...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, to the Hospital Wing it is, then!" she said, and set off.
      Milo drifted along behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty-three...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty-two...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which one of you used the Blasting Charm?" Hermione asked,
      stunned, as she picked herself up from the rubble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" asked Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said, <em class="calibre7">which one of you used the Blasting Charm</em>," she
      repeated loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" asked Ron, who had been deafened by the
      blast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody here knows the Blasting Charm, Hermione," said Harry
      weakly. He'd been thrown halfway across the room in the
      explosion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then, what spell <em class="calibre7">was</em> that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No spell," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" said Hermione and Ron simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, this one time Dudley fell asleep watching cartoons and I
      got to watch Discovery," Harry said, "hiding in my cupboard, of
      course, in case my Aunt or Uncle saw, and it turns out if you throw
      enough dust at a fire, it, well, it—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—explodes?" finished Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, basically. That's why I asked you to conjure up a
      windstorm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's clever. I <em class="calibre7">strongly</em> disapprove, you broke about
      a <em class="calibre7">thousand</em> school rules, and maybe my ribs; also, I know
      for a <em class="calibre7">fact</em> '<em class="calibre7">no explosions in the hallways—</em>NO
      EXCEPTIONS<em class="calibre7">'</em> is a rule, I saw it posted outside Filch's
      office, but it <em class="calibre7">was</em> clever, but sometimes even when a plan
      is clever, <em class="calibre7">even</em> when it's really clever, <em class="calibre7">you should
      really warn me when you're going to blow something up</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll do that next time," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre7">shut up</em>, Ron!" snapped Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">know</em> you can't hear me, but <em class="calibre7">what</em> you really
      expect to gain by saying '<em class="calibre7">what?</em>' over and over I don't
      even—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was cut off when a huge, ugly, scorched hand reached
      out from the smoke and picked her up by the shoulder. She
      reflexively reached for her wand, but realized she'd dropped it in
      the explosion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Troll held her up close to its face, gazing at her with a
      curious expression. Then it opened its gaping maw. A fell odour of
      rotting meat and <em class="calibre7">extreme</em> halitosis blasted her senses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, please don't eat me, Mr. Troll..." she begged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead of eating her or charging down the injured Ron and
      Harry, the Troll decided to take a third option.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape waited. Quirrell, Snape knew (though he could not see
      him), was likely deciding what to do about Hagrid's dog. Whatever
      action he took would be proof enough for Snape to bring Dumbledore,
      or even the Ministry, down on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Any moment now, the Defence Professor would kill the dog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unexpectedly, nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What is he</em> doing<em class="calibre7">?</em> Snape wondered. Then the
      Troll made an entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Literally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stone bricks flew across the room when Quirrell's beast tore its
      way through the wall as if it were made of paper, carrying the
      Granger girl in one hand as if she were a rag doll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Cerberus awoke and leapt. Snape, though he would never admit
      it, was reminded of the time he'd seen <em class="calibre7">Godzilla Versus
      Mothra</em> as a boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stunned, Snape fumbled for his wand while the Cerberus collided
      with the Troll, knocking it to the ground. Granger was tossed
      across the room, and slid limply along the ground. She didn't
      move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Troll wrestled the larger beast off of it and grabbed an
      enormous flagstone that used to make up part of the third floor's
      ceiling. With a mighty heave, it brought the heavy chunk of stone
      down on one of the hound's heads. There was a sickening crunch, and
      the other two heads led out bellows of rage; blood and spit
      speckling the Troll. The Cerberus raked the Troll with sharp claws,
      gouging thick slashes in its tough hide. One of is heads went for
      the Troll's neck, but the Troll managed to wrestle its jaws open
      with its hands; the other head went for Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape began to cast a spell, but someone beat him to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em>," Snape heard someone say, and there was
      a blinding green flash. The Cerberus lay dead, and Quirrell stood
      in the centre of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A-a-are you a-alright, Miss G-G-Granger?" Quirrell asked, his
      voice full of concern. When Hermione didn't respond, Quirrell
      frantically tore a strip of cloth from his robe and tied it around
      her bleeding head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Episkey,</em>" he cast, and several of her smaller cuts and
      injuries healed rapidly. "I'm s-s-sorry," he said, "that's the
      b-b-best I c-can do until h-help arrives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell, Snape noticed, never seemed to stammer when casting a
      spell. <em class="calibre7">Well, at least now his plan is clear. Really, it was
      obvious in hindsight</em>, Snape sighed. He should have seen it
      coming. Quirrell released the Troll not only as a distraction, but
      as an excuse to enter the forbidden corridor and kill Fluffy. He
      used a Forbidden Curse, but even those were technically legal
      against non-humans. It did further cement Snape's view that
      Quirrell had gone Dark, however. On top of everything, Quirrell
      would now be a hero in everyone's eyes. What this had to do with
      Milo, however, Snape still couldn't figure out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Wait</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">why was the Troll holding Miss
      Granger?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused. <em class="calibre7">Granger must have been in the hallways, and where
      there's Granger...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...there's Harry Potter.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Climbing over debris and deceased dog, Snape rushed through the
      Troll's wall entrance. The Troll itself lay gasping for breath
      under the hound's body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outside, in the hallway, was an... interesting sight. The window
      had been blown open, taking much of the surrounding frame with it.
      The ceiling had not one, but <em class="calibre7">two</em> troll-sized holes in it;
      one of them was at least <em class="calibre7">mostly</em> filled... by a great oak
      tree, which was, incidentally, on fire. Just down the hallway was
      <em class="calibre7">another</em> flattened wall, where the Troll had first entered.
      The sheer level of damage was unlike anything Snape had ever seen
      before—not even Fred and George... not even <em class="calibre7">James</em> and
      <em class="calibre7">Sirius</em> had ever... <em class="calibre7">no-one</em>, so far as Snape knew,
      had ever done so much raw, physical damage to the Hogwarts school
      in a thousand years, much less under a minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Surely, the Dark Lord's hand must be at work,
      here...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape shook himself out of his reverie, and began searching for
      Potter. The boy <em class="calibre7">must</em> live, everything—and everyone—else
      was expendable. Dimly, he was aware of movement behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief, blinding flash as Dumbledore arrived, carried
      by his fiery bird.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can come out, now," said the Headmaster. The eccentric
      Headmaster, it seemed, had not taken Hallowe'en lightly, and was
      wearing an uncharacteristically sombre gray robe and hat. Of all
      things, a sword was buckled to his side. At first, Snape thought
      Dumbledore had directed the remark at him, but the Headmaster
      looked right at him and winked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Troll, burnt and bloody, staggered out of the forbidden
      third-floor corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have damaged my school," the Headmaster said gravely. "You
      have injured my students." The Troll cocked its head to the side,
      as if it actually understood what he was saying. "And for these
      things that you have done," the Headmaster continued, "you will
      <em class="calibre7">leave</em>. Now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no threat, just a simple statement of fact. The Troll
      stared at the Headmaster blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fly, you fool," Dumbledore said quietly. The Troll turned and
      leapt out the window. Snape, dismissing his Disillusionment Charm,
      walked over to the edge. The Troll was running towards the
      Forbidden Forest as fast as it could go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," Snape heard a weak voice from behind them.
      Dumbledore turned to see Harry and Ron lying, partially buried by
      (surprisingly dust-free) stone bricks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter! Mr. Weasley! We have to get you to the hospital
      wing at once!" the Headmaster said in alarm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, worry about us later," Harry said stoically. "Milo... was
      thrown out the window. He—I'm sure he—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Say no more, I'll take care of it," Dumbledore said
      reassuringly. "Snape, make sure these two—and Miss Granger, she
      should be around here somewhere—get to the hospital wing." With
      that, and a flash, he and his Phoenix vanished as quickly as they'd
      appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-w-w-wingard... Wing... <em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>!" Hannah
      shouted, lifting Milo into the sky. She was sure—okay,
      <em class="calibre7">pretty</em> sure—okay, she <em class="calibre7">hoped</em> she'd found the
      window to the hospital wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo slowly floated up to the fourth-storey window. Hannah hoped
      that <em class="calibre7">someone</em> inside would see him and help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nine...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She considered sending up sparks with her wand, or even using
      magic to break the window, but she wasn't sure she could do that
      <em class="calibre7">and</em> hold Milo at the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eight...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other hand, if necessary, she could always just shove him
      <em class="calibre7">through</em> the window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seven...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What would that accomplish? If there's nobody in there,
      there won't be anyone to help him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Six...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo dropped to -9 hit points, not that Hannah knew that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Five...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm sure someone will notice him eventually</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Four...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Though I'm not sure for how long I can keep this levitate
      running.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a loud <em class="calibre7">Crack</em> and a blinding flash. Dumbledore
      appeared in front of her, with a fiery bird perched on his
      shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah's concentration broke, and abruptly she felt the strain
      of her Levitation Charm vanish. Milo, no longer protected by his
      Feather Fall, started to fall to the ground. Fawkes, with a mighty
      cry, leapt from Dumbledore's shoulder and flew towards the falling
      boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo awoke to an all-too-familiar ceiling. He heard raised
      voices from the other side of the curtain surrounding his hospital
      bunk. He felt... well, pretty great, actually. It was sort of hard
      to put his finger on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No,</em> I <em class="calibre7">don't</em> know when he'll wake up!" said
      the frustrated voice of Madam Pomfrey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre7">are</em> a mediwitch, aren't you?" said the stern voice
      of McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and I'm fully trained and qualified to heal
      <em class="calibre7">humans</em>. <em class="calibre7">What</em> he is, I don't even—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're telling me you don't have a clue whether he's going
      to live or die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm <em class="calibre7">telling you</em> that he's survived life threatening
      injuries in the past; I don't even know if he <em class="calibre7">can</em>
      die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Milo said cheerfully. "I'm awake! Hello?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Abruptly, the curtain was drawn back from around his bed.
      McGonagall looked concerned, and Pomfrey looked terrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh-what, already?" she asked, trembling. "You should have
      been... I mean, you shouldn't have..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What Madam Pomfrey is trying to say," said McGonagall, "is that
      we're very relieved to hear that you're all right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup, just dandy. Can anyone tell me what happened? The last
      thing I remember is nearly killing myself casting <em class="calibre7">Feather
      Fall...</em> of all the ways to die, I think that would have been
      the most humiliating. I can't believe it actually <em class="calibre7">was</em> the
      fall that killed me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you mean to tell me that you were performing dangerous
      magic—" McGonagall started, but Pomfrey cut her off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I can only assume we have Fawkes to thank," said the
      mediwitch. "although as to <em class="calibre7">why</em> the Headmaster's been
      keeping a miracle cure like Phoenix Tears locked away in his
      office, I suppose I'll have to bring that up with <em class="calibre7">him</em>..."
      she said, trailing off into a series of angry grumbles. Milo
      thought he caught the words "<em class="calibre7">puts me completely out of the
      job</em>" and "<em class="calibre7">could have saved that Longbottom boy a world of
      hurt</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," said Milo, "could anyone tell me what happened to the
      Troll?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore drove it away," said McGonagall. "I
      believe it's likely still running, actually. Although your friends
      performed more than their share of Gryffindor heroism, and, not
      that I'd like to encourage this sort of thing, together you've all
      earned <em class="calibre7">more</em> than enough points to offset your...
      <em class="calibre7">unruly</em>... behaviour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How come I'm not dead?" Milo asked, bluntly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Abbot carried you back to the castle, and I rather think
      she was about to break the door down when the Headmaster found
      you—his Phoenix, Fawkes, has certain powerful healing abilities.
      She's quite distraught, in fact, and has hardly left your
      side."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose <em class="calibre7">you</em> could tell <em class="calibre7">us</em> why you're
      awake?" asked Pomfrey. "Everything I know tells me you should have
      either been completely restored when the Phoenix healed you, or,
      failing that, unconscious for days. It's only been three
      hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I've got a hit point. If I had to guess, that Phoenix
      cured me into the positives, and I was just sleeping since then. It
      was your shouting that woke me up. Still, I feel sort of...
      weird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lumos</em>," she whispered. "Right, follow my wand with
      your eyes..." she waved the wand slowly back in front of his face.
      When he, presumably, responded normally; she followed up with a
      number of diagnostic spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I feel <em class="calibre7">fine</em>," he said. "Better than fine,
      actually; sort of like... I could go toe-to-toe with a Ghoul or
      armwrestle a Bugbear. Like I could <em class="calibre7">be</em> or <em class="calibre7">do</em>...
      well, <em class="calibre7">anything</em>. Like I'm <em class="calibre7">full</em> of untapped
      potential..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Phoenixes have been known to have a sort of euphoric
      effect—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's not that. I think... I think I... my gods!" he said as
      he realized what had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" asked McGonagall, alarmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've levelled up!" It had never happened while he was
      unconscious before. "Leave me alone for a minute, I need to pick
      skills."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall gave him a peculiar look and turned to leave with
      Madam Pomfrey, but Milo ignored them both.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, by the way," said Madam Pomfrey as she left. "You're not to
      leave your bed for at least 24 hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, whatever," Milo said absently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Skills is easy</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">I'll just add another
      rank in what I've already got. As for feats...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This part was really difficult for Milo. As a level five Wizard,
      he got a bonus metamagic or item creation feat. <em class="calibre7">Under normal
      circumstances I'd go for Extend Spell, but...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I might have to face the fact that I'm going to be stuck
      here for a while,</em> Milo thought bitterly. <em class="calibre7">I have to be
      self-sufficient. I have to be a whole party, a whole</em> economy,
      <em class="calibre7">by myself. If I keep being tossed into encounters above my ECL
      like this, I'm going to wind up dead.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What are my assets?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I have time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">With Harry Potter, I have money.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Feeling somewhat sick, Milo did something he swore he would
      never, ever do. Mentally, he wrote down "Craft Wondrous Item" on
      the character sheet in his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If I ever get to go home</em>, he reassured himself,
      <em class="calibre7">I'll just retrain it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When it came to spells, Milo felt like he might cry. <em class="calibre7">I only
      get two. How can I live with only two?! There are</em> dozens
      <em class="calibre7">of third level spells I absolutely</em> have <em class="calibre7">to have.</em>
      Haste. Fireball. Shrink Item. Fly. Summon Monster III. Heroics.
      With tears in his eyes, Milo chose <em class="calibre7">Fly</em> and <em class="calibre7">Summon
      Monster III</em>. <em class="calibre7">Next level,</em> he promised himself.
      <em class="calibre7">Next level, I learn something that goes boom.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that?" Milo heard a familiar voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Nev. This place has me talking to myself," Milo
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not so bad," he heard Neville say from next cot over.
      "Though I'd like to try sleeping in our dorm once, if only for the
      novelty of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've <em class="calibre7">never</em> slept in Gryffindor Tower?" Milo heard
      Hermione say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey," said Ron. "Now that I think about it, I don't think
      I've ever seen him in there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My suitcase isn't even unpacked," Neville said sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked around. Harry, Ron, and Hermione were all lying in
      hospital beds as well. Hermione's bushy brown hair was hidden by
      thick bandages around her head, with more wrapped around her chest.
      Harry and Ron were similarly bandaged, albeit to a lesser
      extent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Holy crap," Milo said, stunned. "What happened to <em class="calibre7">you</em>
      guys?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they filled him in on the events of their day (Milo was
      <em class="calibre7">stunned</em> at the revelation that dust could explode; the
      possible applications for that were <em class="calibre7">endless</em>. Okay, well,
      really there was only <em class="calibre7">one</em> application for it, and that was
      for making things go boom on the cheap.) That these three "wizards"
      very nearly took out that "Troll" made Milo's respect for them go
      up several notches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So all they were keeping in the chamber of die-a-horrible-death
      was a gigantic three-headed dog?" Milo asked. "Huh. I always had it
      figured for the Philosopher's Stone. Guess that explains why
      Hogwarts had a gigantic ultra-secure cage, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo was talking, the door to the hospital wing opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah Abbot, in full rabbit regalia, entered, followed by a
      hovering trolley <em class="calibre7">covered</em> in food.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seeing as how you're missing the Hallowe'en feast," she said,
      "McGonagall made a special exemption and let me bring the feast to
      <em class="calibre7">you</em>. Also," she added, "you lot—Milo excluded, of course;
      very spooky as a Dementor—wouldn't be allowed in there without a
      costume, anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The eyes on Harry's, Ron's, Hermione's, and Neville's eyes lit
      up simultaneously. Milo shrugged and reached for his Everlasting
      Rations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She also said to tell you that it came with a twenty Gryffindor
      House Points for each of you (except you, Neville, sorry), and five
      for me," she said happily. "Oh, also," she said, looking archly at
      Milo. "If you even <em class="calibre7">think</em> about eating those bland,
      tasteless Rations, I will personally throw you through another
      window."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron choked slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">McGonagall</em> said <em class="calibre7">that?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Hannah. "That was me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah walked past her grievously injured friends, passing out
      plates piled high with food. Milo felt that elaborate descriptions
      were in order, but, frankly, he didn't know what three-quarters of
      the stuff was even <em class="calibre7">called</em>. Hannah sat down on the bed next
      to Milo and passed him a plate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sniffed it suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Detect Poison</em>," he muttered. Everything
      <em class="calibre7">looked</em> clean (except Neville, who still had enough poison
      in him to be flagged as 'poisonous'), but that paradoxically only
      made him <em class="calibre7">more</em> nervous. The poison might be <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      well hidden...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, just eat it," Hannah said. "What could happen? You're
      <em class="calibre7">already</em> in the hospital wing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Milo said reluctantly. He took a tiny bite of something
      sort of orange-ish. His hand was already reaching for Antitoxin
      before he finished chewing, but, surprisingly, he felt fine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," he said, stunned. "This... this is pretty
      <em class="calibre7">good</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See? I told you so," Hannah said with a grin. Where Milo came
      from, taste was only ever described when it was dramatically
      required, but <em class="calibre7">here</em>... everything was so full of
      <em class="calibre7">flavour</em>, even—or, perhaps, <em class="calibre7">especially</em>—when it was
      completely inconsequential.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Beans," he said suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, what was that, mate?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Gringotts Every-Flavoured Beans," Milo said. "I want some.
      <em class="calibre7">Now</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're <em class="calibre7">Bertie Botts</em> Every-Flavoured Beans," Ron
      muttered. "And there's a box on the trolley, but, blimey, Harry
      made me swear to warn anyone before their first time—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can handle it," Milo said, grabbing the box. He licked his
      lips hungrily and downed a handful at a time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo passed out from sensory overload.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This," said Harry as Milo came to, "was the best Hallowe'en
      <em class="calibre7">ever</em>. Normally, the Muggles only let me have the candies
      they took from Dudley because they think they have razor blades in
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was forced to agree, and not only because it was the only
      Hallowe'en he'd ever had. He'd fought monsters, survived by the
      skin of his teeth, levelled up, discovered the wonders of a whole
      new sense, and felt, for the first time in a long time, like he was
      part of a party again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was, rather, like coming home.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
