<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 12: Of Rats and Bowler Caps, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: Of Rats and Bowler Caps</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: Milo's new level five character sheet can be
      found here: ?sheetid=421496. because Fanfiction seems to dislike
      entire URLS.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thanks to everyone for your nice reviews! If this story were a
      Wizard, those reviews would be his spells per day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Ron were released on Friday evening, but Milo and
      Hermione were obliged to stay in the hospital wing for the weekend.
      Gryffindor (and even a few Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw) well-wishers
      had brought in flowers, candy, and cards to speed their recovery.
      Milo wondered idly where the students had got them from, because it
      wasn't like there were any shops in the castle, and students
      couldn't just leave the grounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Owl-order," answered Hermione when he asked on Sunday evening.
      "Also, third-years and above can go to Hogsmeade a few times a
      year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was disappointed at how... <em class="calibre7">mundane</em> the answer was,
      but liked the sound of the Hogsmeade trips once he hit third
      year...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo cut off that line of thought quickly. <em class="calibre7">There's no way
      I'm still going to be here in two years,</em> he thought
      firmly<em class="calibre7">. Why, Zook and the others are probably already paying to
      have a whole battery of Divinations cast to find out where I
      am.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Totally.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...and the reason that's been two months, why, they're
      probably just trying to find a really good Diviner to do it. Yeah.
      Totally. Or a Conjurer to Plane Shift me home.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">They could have at least sent a Sending once in a while, is
      that too much to ask?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Of course, this all assumes they weren't TPK'd by Thamior
      because they didn't have me to do, well, everything.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why the long face?" Hermione asked, full of concern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," said Milo, "that all of my friends back home might be
      dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" she asked, her face gone white. "That's
      terrible! What... why... who... Oh, Milo, I'm sorry. I'm
      <em class="calibre7">so</em> sorry; that's about the worst thing I've ever
      heard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. He'd forgotten that the people here seemed to view
      death as more than a mild inconvenience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not so bad," he said. "I mean, this isn't the first time
      it's happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have to put on such a brave face," she said. "It's
      only me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where I come from, you can pay to have people brought back from
      the dead," Milo said simply. "It's really not such a big deal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just stared, thunderstruck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's... so..." Hermione paused to collect her thoughts. "You
      really <em class="calibre7">are</em> from another world, aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Milo said quietly. "Everything was really—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Milo heard a small, sharp voice say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, Hermione, did you say something?" Milo asked</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen!" the voice said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em>" Milo asked, irritated. Milo got a flash of
      <em class="calibre7">Irritation, Frustration, Annoyance</em> from his empathic bond.
      "Mordy? Was that you? Since when can you <em class="calibre7">talk?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's <em class="calibre7">amazing</em>, really, it is," the voice (presumably
      Mordy) said. "You remembered to put a skill rank in Decipher
      Script, as if you'll ever find any use for that, but you
      <em class="calibre7">forgot</em> that I got the Speak With Master ability?" Mordy
      crawled out of his home in Milo's bag, and up his robes to talk to
      him face-to-face. Hermione had an odd look on her face, watching
      the exchange.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I feel like that's more <em class="calibre7">your</em> business to keep
      track of—" Milo protested weakly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm <em class="calibre7">your</em> class feature," said Mordy firmly. "Bet you
      forgot my Natural Armour increased, too, didn't you? No, don't tell
      me; I don't think my poor, adorable little rodent heart could take
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well, but—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it's been <em class="calibre7">ages</em> since I got any share of the loot,"
      Mordenkainen continued as if Milo hadn't spoken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Share of the</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's right, my fair share of the loot. I do all the most
      dangerous jobs—distracting the Troll, spying on Snape's secret
      meeting with Lucius—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, <em class="calibre7">what</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and what do I get in return?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Supernatural power above and beyond that of an ordinary rat,
      humanlike Intelligence, magical knowledge rivalling my own, the
      Skill Ranks of a level five Wizard—but that's beside the point.
      What's this about Snape's secret meeting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right after you were doing your '<em class="calibre7">Crime Scene
      Investigating</em>' in the Forbidden Forest—I'm sorry, are you not
      taking me seriously? You're laughing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's hard to maintain a straight face," Milo said between
      laughs, "when you see a rat make little air-quotes like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stay on topic, would you? Snape snuck out to meet the Smarmy
      Git's father, before you ask, yes, I could tell by his scent who he
      was but also because the Oily One called him 'Lucius Malfoy.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And? What did they talk about?" Milo asked, intrigued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I got mauled by a cat once, helping you," Mordy
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened to 'Stay on topic?'" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just wanted you to appreciate how difficult my job is,
      sometimes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes, you're very appreciated, now <em class="calibre7">get on with
      it</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, the Sire of Smarm told the Oily One that you weren't a
      wizard—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Not a Wizard?</em>" Milo asked, enraged. "I will
      <em class="calibre7">end</em> him! I'll show him which one of us <em class="calibre7">isn't a
      Wizard</em> when I shove some high-powered arcana down his—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and that he wants the Oily One to have you expelled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Huh," said Milo flatly. "Expelled? That's it?" From where he
      was from, enemies generally wanted you, dead, undead, re-dead,
      disgraced, disintegrated, detained, and/or devoured. Being expelled
      seemed so... unimportant. "It must only be Phase One of his plan.
      First, get me expelled, then, eaten by Bugbears."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I assumed as well. So, boss, what's the plan? Oh,
      before I forget, there's this one other th—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," said Hermione, as if it had taken her this long to work
      up the courage to mention it. "<em class="calibre7">What</em> are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Talking to Mordenkainen," he said. "Can't you tell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Hermione. "It sounded like you were spouting
      gibberish. You can—wait, you can talk to rats? You're a... a...
      huh. I don't actually know if there's a word for that. A
      rodenttongue? Rattongue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, just to this one. I'm the one-and-only Mordytongue," Milo
      said. He'd forgotten that the Speak With Master ability magically
      prevented anyone from understanding what he said to Mordy, and
      vice-versa. <em class="calibre7">Handy</em>, he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what are you saying?" Hermione asked curiously. "Er, that
      was rude. I didn't meant to pry, or interrupt a conversation, or
      anything, it's just that it's not every day that—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mordy was telling me that Snape and Lucius Malfoy met secretly
      in the forest," Milo explained, "and that Lucius asked Snape to get
      me expelled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This was when you went to the forest to investigate the
      Acromantula?" Hermione asked. "I'd been meaning to ask—what did you
      end up finding?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Acromantula had a missing fang," Milo said. "And that I
      couldn't have killed it with the log."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, that means..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone else must have done it, though I didn't see it happen.
      I would have thought it was Quirrell, but he was very clear about
      the fact that he was nowhere near the scene at the time. Also, the
      math on the Experience Points checks out if I split it fifty-fifty
      with a more experienced character than myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, when I was in school, people said <em class="calibre7">I</em> was
      weird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Must be nice," Milo said, "to have a backstory. Seems like a
      lot of work, mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You... you don't remember your childhood <em class="calibre7">at
      all?</em>"Hermione was shocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before I became an adventurer? Not really. I know that at some
      point, I became a vagabond street thief, but I'm not really sure
      how that happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's so <em class="calibre7">sad</em>," Hermione said, her eyes misting
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It let me become a Wizard younger," Milo said. "It's sort of
      complicated, and it doesn't stand up to close inspection. It's...
      weird. For me. This only became a problem when I came to this
      world, it's like... I'm cut off from something. I don't suppose we
      can change the subject?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What were we talking about?" Hermione asked. "Oh, right. Snape
      trying to get you expelled. Only Professor McGonagall and Professor
      Dumbledore have the authority for that," she said, "short of the
      Minister for Magic stepping in personally. It's out of Snape's
      hands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess Snape could try to set it up so that they had no choice
      but to—aw, <em class="calibre7">crap</em>. The potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Milo</em>!" Hermione said. "Language!" she paused for a
      moment. "Also, what potion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For Snape's detention on Hallowe'en," Milo said. "I thought he
      was trying to kill me, having me make an exploding potion, but it
      was a test. I failed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Failing Potions isn't enough to have you expelled," Hermione
      said. "I mean, take Neville."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" said Neville from his bunk. He was back in the hospital
      wing after being mauled by (and they wouldn't have believed it if
      there hadn't been twelve witnesses) a Flobberworm. Flobberworms
      have no teeth, fangs, spikes, poison, spit, <em class="calibre7">anything</em>.
      Their one claim to fame is their (harmless) slimy mucous. They'd
      quite forgotten about him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Nev," Hermione said, her face pink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's not just about being even more hopelessly incompetent
      than Neville," Milo said as if Neville hadn't spoken. PCs could be
      like that around NPCs, sometimes. "Snape told me himself: a newborn
      with a <em class="calibre7">hint</em> of magical blood could make that potion. All
      you have to do is <em class="calibre7">stir</em> it, you don't need to think about
      it or concentrate or anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So?" asked Hermione. "What's your point?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't make the potion," Milo said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a meaningful silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe you had the ingredients wrong?" asked Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, they were perfect. Snape even checked them beforehand. It's
      not like I kept it a secret, I'm <em class="calibre7">not</em> a wizard like you
      are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Witch, <em class="calibre7">actually</em>," said Hermione pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the only thing keeping me here is that Dumbledore thinks
      I'm like <em class="calibre7">you</em>," said Milo, "only crazy and deluded—and even
      worse at magic than <em class="calibre7">Neville</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that can't be," said Hermione. "If you weren't a wizard,
      the wards wouldn't let you enter Hogsmeade or Hogwarts. You'd
      suddenly remember an important meeting and run off, I believe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose it depends on the <em class="calibre7">exact</em> wording of the
      spell. Maybe the wards target everyone who isn't '<em class="calibre7">a wizard,
      witch, squib, or magical creature,</em>' or something. I don't
      suppose you have the spell description in the library?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," said Hermione. "I... don't think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More importantly, I've..." Milo's tongue tripped over itself.
      "I've..." he sighed. "I've already <em class="calibre7">lost</em>. Snape won. I'm
      going to be expelled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I think it would take more than Snape's word for something
      like this. It's completely unprecedented; the Ministry will want to
      be involved, Dumbledore too—and McGonagall, of course—the
      department that handles underage magic... the point is, I don't
      think we need to worry until ministry officials start showing
      up—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello!" said a cheerful voice, interrupting Hermione
      mid-sentence. Milo turned to see a portly (one) little (two) man in
      a pinstriped cloak and green bowler cap (three! Major NPC) standing
      at the entrance to the hospital wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gasped, her face completely white.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm," said Milo. "Hello, ah, sir?" he was guessing wildly, but
      judging by Hermione's reaction, this was either a local king, evil
      vizier, or Lord Voldemort himself. Milo carefully re-arranged his
      blankets so they wouldn't impede him if he made a run for the
      window, and stuffed Mordenkainen back into his belt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that won't be necessary," said the man. "I'm Cornelius
      Fudge, the Minister for Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Aw,</em> crap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-M-Milo Amastacia—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Liadon," Fudge interrupted as he moved to sit next to Milo.
      "Yes, yes, I know who you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo licked his lips, which had gone suddenly dry. He wouldn't
      be up to full hit points until midnight, when his second day of
      full bed rest finished. He slowly pulled both hands out from under
      his blankets so they wouldn't interfere with Somatic spell
      components. This man, as Milo understood it, was king of an
      <em class="calibre7">entire country of wizards</em>. He probably had access to
      enough Arcane power to rewrite reality according to his whims.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid there's been a spot of trouble," the Minister said.
      "I'm sure it's nothing, but it has a lot of us at the Ministry
      scratching our heads. I'm here with some colleagues—who are waiting
      in the hall; your mediwitch was quite... <em class="calibre7">severe</em> with them,
      demanded no more than one of us be let in at a time—who are here to
      sort it out and solve the little mystery. Shouldn't take more than
      a moment, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shot Milo a look of absolute panic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-how can I help, m-m-my lord?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Really</em> now," said Fudge, "I'm not a lord, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"F-forgive me, your Divine Imperial Majesty!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fat little man sighed and removed his bowler cap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just Mister Fudge will do, Milo. And to answer your question
      earlier, all you have to do is follow me, answer a few questions,
      and brew a potion. We can have you back to your bed and friends in
      a few minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo panicked. It was the end of the day, and he was almost out
      of spells. He couldn't prepare new ones until Monday.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, ah, I'd love to but I'm afraid I'm... I'm grievously
      injured," Milo stammered. "I was thrown out a window just the other
      day, you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The lovely Ms. Pomfrey assures me that you're in good enough
      shape to move about, if only for a short time," said Fudge. "And
      I'm afraid I have to insist. It's quite out of my hands, you
      see..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you're the—" Milo said, before remembering who he was
      talking to. Fudge could probably lay waste to armies with a wave of
      his hand. "...okay. I'll go with you," he said meekly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good lad!" said the Minister as Milo climbed to his feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to go with him," Hermione said firmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," said the Minister. "Well, shouldn't you stay here and
      rest?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she insisted. "I'll be fine, Pomfrey is just being
      over-protective. I'm not letting him go <em class="calibre7">anywhere</em> alone—you
      wouldn't believe what happens." Milo grinned; it looked like she
      was finally grasping Adventurer Rule One: <em class="calibre7">you</em> never
      <em class="calibre7">split the party</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, um, very well, but let it be known this wasn't my
      idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione weakly struggled to her feet. Her head was still
      tightly bandaged, as was her chest. From what Milo could
      understand, witches and wizards—and Muggles, too, likely—had a
      completely different healing process from what he was familiar
      with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo moved next to Hermione (just in case) and together they
      followed the Minister for Magic. Outside the hospital wing's large
      double doors were four of his flunkies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These are my colleagues," Fudge gestured at his underlings,
      "Mafilda Hopkirk from the Improper Use of Magic Office," he said,
      pointing at a stern, gray-haired witch, "Dolores Umbridge, Senior
      Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic," Fudge pointed at what
      Milo could only assume to be a Half-Toad clad all in pink, "and
      Broderick Bode of the Department of Mysteries," Fudge pointed at a
      sallow-skinned wizard. "In the back there is Walden Macnair of the,
      er, the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical
      Creatures. I'm sure he won't be necessary." Fudge pointed at a
      <em class="calibre7">huge</em> wizard standing head-and-shoulders taller than the
      others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This the little beastie?" Macnair asked in a low rumble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Fudge awkwardly. "That, er, has, ah, yet to be
      determined. If you'll all follow me?" Fudge asked, with a small
      gesture. Milo frowned. <em class="calibre7">Is his timid incompetence an act, as
      obfuscation? Or is he</em> really <em class="calibre7">this anxious all the time? If
      so,</em> how <em class="calibre7">did he become ruler of en empire of what are,
      essentially, demigods?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">He can't have</em>, Milo realized. <em class="calibre7">Either he's a
      brilliant chessmaster behind this facade, or...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fudge led the group into the dungeons, but Milo barely
      noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...or someone else is the real power behind the throne. But
      is it Dumbledore, Lucius, Voldemort, or some third party?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Either way, I</em> really <em class="calibre7">need to figure out how to pass
      Snape's test.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't <em class="calibre7">that</em> impossible, really. All he had to do was
      get a cauldron to bubble instead of exploding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only catch was that he hardly had any spells left; he'd been
      using <em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em> to catch up on his reading.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo ran his fingers through his hair. He hadn't quite realized
      how vulnerable that made him at night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long is it to midnight?" he asked Hermione, who checked her
      watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Less than two hours," she said with a yawn. "It's <em class="calibre7">way</em>
      past my bedtime."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo chewed his lip. He had a plan, of sorts. He just had to
      delay until midnight, and <em class="calibre7">then</em> delay for an hour while he
      prepared spells. And <em class="calibre7">then</em> he had to figure out how to make
      a handful of spells designed for killing orcs in ten-by-ten stone
      rooms do something they were <em class="calibre7">never</em> intended to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the while with the most powerful men in the country
      breathing down his neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Wonderful</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure if you just double-check your measuring," Hermione
      said in an attempt to be reassuring, "you'll do fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned nervously, then steeled himself. He had the
      beginnings of a plan in mind, but for that he would need
      spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, erm, Milo my boy, where did you say you came from?" Fudge
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Myra," Milo said proudly. "City of light! City of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic</em>!" The Myrari government, though completely inept at
      dealing with dragons, goblins, and bandits, nonetheless had a
      sophisticated system of Divinations set up to detect citizens who
      <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> add the legally-mandated city motto after saying
      the city's name. Milo wasn't sure exactly how far-reaching the
      effects were, so even <em class="calibre7">here</em> he made sure to say it—and, for
      that matter, <em class="calibre7">think</em> it. Nobody knew exactly what the
      punishment was for breaking that particular law, because nobody
      knew <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> who had ever done it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Personally, Milo suspected that lawbreakers were retroactively
      erased from the timeline altogether.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where is that, exactly?" asked Fudge. "America? Europe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," said Milo. He wasn't sure, exactly, how secret he was
      supposed to keep his otherworldy nature. On the other hand, Fudge
      was probably watching him with a battery of Divinations (or
      whatever the local equivalent was called) to catch him lying.
      <em class="calibre7">So, I can't tell the truth, and I probably can't tell a
      lie.</em> "No," Milo said. "Not America or Europe." <em class="calibre7">And now I
      need a diversion...</em> "Did you see that ludicrous display last
      week?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I daresay! I had more Galleons riding on a Wanderer's victory
      than were in the Spanish Armada," Fudge said. "Mind, the Cannons
      were all riding <em class="calibre7">Nimbus Two Thousands</em>," he said. "That must
      have been the reason. Donated at the last minute by an anonymous
      benefactor. The Wanderers, though; rumour has it they were on an
      experimental new broom. Must have been rubbish, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's curiosity was perked. If there's one thing <em class="calibre7">every</em>
      adventurer listens to, it's unfounded rumours told by fat little
      men. He knew his present situation was dire, but he just
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> to dig for more information.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An experimental broom?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I'd heard. Made by a total unknown in Wales somewhere,
      doesn't even have a proper name yet. It's all very hush-hush, even
      to me—and I'm the Minister!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, your, ah, Ministership, sir, do you have any guesses about
      who donated all the broomsticks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Off the record? There's only one family with the wealth and
      influence to afford a team's set of Nimbuses with a vested interest
      in seeing the broomstick succeed," Fudge said conspiratorially,
      "and that's the Malfoys. Mr. Malfoy is on the Nimbus board of
      directors, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had no idea what a board of directors was, but he didn't
      care. Everything he heard seemed to be pointing to that family: the
      manor he first woke up in, Draco's very existence (and at the
      <em class="calibre7">exact</em> same age as him, too), Lucius in the forest —and
      wasn't Draco taunting him about Quidditch just the other day?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo knew an adventure hook when he saw one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Later</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">First, I need to avoid being
      expelled</em>. Expulsion would be inconvenient and annoying, but it
      wasn't as if Milo had any vested interest in obtaining a magic
      education in the wrong sort of magic. Mostly, he just wanted to
      stay in Hogwarts because Lucius, for some reason, wanted him
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, here we are," said Fudge as they approached Snape's
      classroom in the dungeons. "You know, when I attended this school,
      this was where they used to lock us when we misbehaved. Ah, the
      joys of youth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without even being prompted, Macnair and Bode each opened one of
      the double doors, allowing Fudge to enter. Milo was still unsure if
      the man's bumbling nature was an act or not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo and Hermione followed, with Fudge's underlings behind
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore, McGonagall, Snape, and a small group of men Milo
      didn't recognize were waiting in the classroom for them. Something
      about the way the group of men stood, and the fact that they were
      all dressed the same, made Milo think they were some form of wizard
      police or military. <em class="calibre7">What was the word for that? They had a word
      for that</em>¸ Milo thought, trying to remember. It was in one of
      the books he'd read with <em class="calibre7">Scholar's Touch</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sitting in the middle of the classroom was a small, pewter
      cauldron. Next to it were the ingredients, such as they were, for
      Snape's test potion. Snape looked excited, McGonagall worried, and
      Dumbledore as enigmatic as always.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In accordance with Section Thirty-Two-Point-One-Four-One-Alpha
      of the 1634 Statute on Inexplicable Phenomena of a Magical Nature,"
      Umbridge declared in an authoritative voice, reading from a scroll
      she'd been carrying somewhere on her person, "which states, in the
      words of the Great Wizard Peabody, '<em class="calibre7">When something really,
      really,</em> really <em class="calibre7">wyrd happens, and hear ye me I do mean</em>
      REALLY <em class="calibre7">wyrd, and lo, it hath never happened before, and neither
      sir nor gentle lady knoweth what to do, let the goddamned
      Department of Mysteries handle it, y'hear? And forsooth, maketh
      sure there are at</em> least <em class="calibre7">a half-dozen Aurors around, if ye
      know what be good for ye,</em>' the first preliminary inquiry to
      determine the nature of one entity known as '<em class="calibre7">Milo
      Amastacia-Liadon,</em>' of a species yet to be determined, is to be
      convened, under the supervision of one Broderick Bode of the
      Department of Mysteries and in the presence of six fully-qualified
      Aurors of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. Also in
      attendance are Hogwarts Professors Albus Dumbledore, Minerva
      McGonagall, and Severus Snape, Dolores Umbridge, Senior
      Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic, Cornelius Fudge, Minister
      for Magic, Walden McNair of the Department for the Regulation and
      Control of Magical Creatures, Mafilda Hopkirk from the Improper Use
      of Magic Office, and... <em class="calibre7">Ms.</em> Hermione Granger. The
      objective of the inquiry is 1) to determine the species of the
      individual in question, 2) if he turns out to be human, whether he
      is a wizard, squib, or... otherwise, 3) if <em class="calibre7">not</em> a wizard,
      determine how he got past the magical wards protecting this castle
      and the village known as Hogsmeade, 4)if <em class="calibre7">not</em> human, to
      turn the inquiries over to the Department for the Regulation and
      Control of Magical Creatures for study and, if deemed appropriate,
      execution. Let the inquisition commence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge put away her parchment and stepped back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. <em class="calibre7">Well</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre7">this is
      unexpected</em>. Bode, the strange, somber man from the Department
      of Mysteries moved forwards slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, Milo, I want you to understand that these are just
      <em class="calibre7">preliminary</em> inquiries. There are a lot of unanswered
      questions, and we're just going to try and see if they're worth
      looking into is all. That business about the execution is just a
      formality," he said in a dry voice. Milo had just started sighing
      with relief when he continued. "Unless, of course, you
      <em class="calibre7">aren't</em> human, and are some form of hitherto-undiscovered
      magical creature, in which case you'll be staked, beheaded, buried
      upside-down in sanctified concrete for a year and a day, then dug
      up, salted, shot with thirteen silver bullets, cremated, and
      Disapparated into the sun. In my experience, that'll kill anything
      short of a Dementor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo laughed weakly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Milo said nervously. "How, exactly, are we going to go
      about this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The first test is easy enough. Your Potions Master was good
      enough to brew us up some Veritaserum. You just have to drink a
      drop."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what will that do, exactly?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll make it impossible for you to tell a lie," Bode said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, hit me," Milo said, and reached out. Snape, with a grin,
      produced a tiny vial of clear potion from his robes. For one brief,
      <em class="calibre7">extremely</em> embarrassing moment, Milo wished he were a Bard
      in order to cast <em class="calibre7">Glibness</em>. Snape poured out a single, tiny
      drop of Veritaserum into a glass of water, stirred it slowly, and
      passed it to Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," Milo asked. "How long will this last for? It's not
      permanent, is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unfortunately," Snape said, "It will wear off in a few
      hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay then," Milo said, and gulped the potion down in one go. To
      his surprise, it didn't really taste like anything, and he didn't
      even <em class="calibre7">feel</em> different. <em class="calibre7">Dangerous</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">A
      colourless, tasteless potion that makes one tell the
      truth.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," said Bode. "Are you a human?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seriously?" Milo asked. "That's your test? Yes, I'm a
      human."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What town or city are you from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Myra (cityoflight!cityof<em class="calibre7">Magic</em>!)"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And in which country is Myra situated?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Azel Empire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And on which continent is this... Azel Empire located?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Azel continent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo, are you, in fact, from another world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Milo said simply. Feeling he had to elaborate, he
      continued rapidly, the words almost spilling over themselves in an
      effort to be said. "A few months ago, I was summoned, without
      warning, to a manor near the village I later learned was Hogsmeade
      by a group of Death Eaters—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre7">surely</em> we're not believing this nonsense?"
      interrupted Fudge rudely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I must remind you," Dumbledore said calmly, "that he
      <em class="calibre7">is</em> under the effects of Veritaserum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then he must be deluded. His wild tales are proof of
      that—<em class="calibre7">surely</em> you can see that, Albus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should wait for Bode to finish," Dumbledore said. "And then
      make a judgement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. Carry on, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo, I'll be as direct as I can here," Bode said. "Are you a
      Muggle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you a Squib?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are your parents wizards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you an orphan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you a wizard?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Hells</em> yes I am," Milo said fiercely. "And anyone who
      says otherwise has another thing coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a low murmur from the Aurors present.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, there you have it," Dumbledore said. "From his own mouth
      and under Veritaserum. I don't think this breach of my student's
      privacy has to go any further, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He could be Confunded," Fudge said stubbornly. "In fact, I'd
      bet my hat that he is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you were going to come to that conclusion in any case,"
      Dumbledore said with a slight edge to his voice, "then, pray tell
      me, <em class="calibre7">why</em> bother questioning him at all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Board of Governors insisted, Dumbledore. It was out of my
      hands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder how many of the Governors are under the
      impression—mistaken, I'm sure—that their families would be put in
      danger if they didn't insist?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus!" Fudge gasped, sounding scandalized. "What are you
      suggesting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," he said. "I was just thinking out loud. Don't mind
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I am led to believe," Bode said. "Your Potions Master has
      developed a test which he believes can prove conclusively whether
      or not you do, in fact, possess any magic. Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape stood up from his desk. He looked... almost
      <em class="calibre7">happy</em>. Snape happy terrified Milo far more than Snape
      wrathful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most conventional tests of magic," Snape said in a lecturing
      tone, "could be fooled if the subject is merely <em class="calibre7">extremely</em>
      incompetent or weak. Even the simplest of charms can be fumbled by
      the mentally deficient. That Milo is the <em class="calibre7">worst</em> student of
      magic to enter this school in a century at least is not in
      question. What remains to be seen is whether he possesses
      <em class="calibre7">any</em> magic <em class="calibre7">at all</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Magic isn't a thing you just</em> have, Milo thought
      angrily. <em class="calibre7">It's something you have to work at. Something you</em>
      earn. <em class="calibre7">You have to</em> take <em class="calibre7">magic for yourself; it isn't
      simply handed to you.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To that end, I have developed a test," Snape continued. "A
      potion that requires no thought, concentration, knowledge, or
      effort in the slightest. I will measure out the <em class="calibre7">exact</em>
      proportions of the ingredients, which will be checked by Albus
      Dumbledore and any others who wish to. All the <em class="calibre7">boy</em> has to
      do is pour them into the cauldron and stir once, counterclockwise.
      If the potion is created, he is a wizard. If not... it will
      explode, and I will leave him in the <em class="calibre7">more</em> than capable
      hands of the Ministry to deal with as you see fit." Snape's
      expression harboured no doubt about what <em class="calibre7">he</em> thought should
      be done with '<em class="calibre7">the boy</em>.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, excuse me," Milo said. He could feel everyone's eyes on
      him. "Does anyone have the time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence. Eventually, Fudge fished a gold
      pocketwatch out from under his cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Half past eleven," Fudge said. "So could we hurry this up?
      <em class="calibre7">Some</em> of us have to be up early tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This</em> has <em class="calibre7">to have been deliberate</em>, Milo
      thought. <em class="calibre7">Someone knows I have limited spells per day—they might
      even know that I routinely burn my remaining spell slots on</em>
      Scholar's Touch <em class="calibre7">before bed—and scheduled this accordingly</em>.
      <em class="calibre7">Why else would the</em> Minister for Magic himself <em class="calibre7">consent
      to an inquisition at this hour? Surely he has other things to be
      doing.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's been established that I'm rubbish at Potions,"
      Milo said nervously. He had to kill time until he could prepare
      spells. "Would anyone mind if I did a quick read-through of my
      Potions textbook to make sure I did this right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you <em class="calibre7">just</em> have to stir it!" Fudge said
      exasperatedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Better safe than sorry," Milo said. "If I mess up the stir, the
      whole experiment is void and I get buried in concrete. I might need
      the extra help. After all, '<em class="calibre7">help will always be given at
      Hogwarts</em>—'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—<em class="calibre7">To those who ask for it</em>," Dumbledore finished his
      motto softly. "Very well," he said to the assembled government
      types, "I think the request is reasonable enough." Dumbledore said
      it without any particular weight to it, but somehow it was
      <em class="calibre7">very</em> clear that, even if he wasn't technically in charge
      here, his word on the matter was final.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I'll just run off and grab my text—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">don't</em> think so," Bode said firmly. "If you
      <em class="calibre7">are</em> some sort of magical creature with powers unknown, I
      don't think we should let you out of our sight. Professor Snape, do
      you have a copy of whatever your first year textbook is on
      hand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Accio Magical Drafts and Potions</em>," Snape said, and,
      with a flick of his wand, a textbook flew out of a nearby bookshelf
      and into his hand. <em class="calibre7">Convenient</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre7">And a lot
      less expensive than</em> Drawmij's Instant Summons<em class="calibre7">, that's for
      sure.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without a word, the Potions Master passed Milo the heavy, and
      more importantly, <em class="calibre7">large</em> textbook. If there's one thing
      about wizards (and Wizards), it's that they <em class="calibre7">never</em> use
      standardized sheets of A4.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo made a big show of opening up the book and reading it
      studiously. <em class="calibre7">Very</em> studiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty-eight eyes bored into Milo's head as he,
      <em class="calibre7">eventually</em>, turned a page and continued reading at a
      snail's pace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre7">surely</em> this isn't necessary," Fudge said
      impatiently. "Just go and stir the ruddy pot, boy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How far from the rim?" Milo asked. "How fast? With what length
      of spoon? No, I'm sorry Minister, but my <em class="calibre7">life</em> is on the
      line here. If I'm going to stir it, I'm going to stir it
      <em class="calibre7">right</em>. I'll just be a minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo turned another page.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minutes rolled by. Fudge glanced at his watch every few seconds,
      and began tapping his foot in irritation. Eventually...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's after <em class="calibre7">midnight</em>!" Fudge muttered. "Must we play
      along with this charade?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it's not <em class="calibre7">so</em> bad," McGonagall said. "I can't
      <em class="calibre7">remember</em> the last time I've seen someone his age—except
      for you, Miss Granger, of course—studying so diligently."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if he's delaying until the Veritaserum wears off?" Fudge
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A simple enough question to answer," said Dumbledore. "Milo, if
      you would be so kind as to answer, are you studying with the
      intention of delaying until the Veritaserum wears off?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir," Milo said truthfully, and had to stifle a laugh.
      <em class="calibre7">That is</em> not <em class="calibre7">why I'm delaying.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, there you have it," said Dumbledore. Fudge grumbled
      quietly to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo slowly reached into his Belt of Hidden Pouches and
      recovered his most precious possession: his spellbook. Slowly,
      <em class="calibre7">very</em> slowly, he lifted the thick (but small in terms of
      height and width) tome and placed it such that it was hidden by
      <em class="calibre7">Magical Drafts and Potions</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned as he began preparing spells. <em class="calibre7">Good thing I was
      bedridden all day</em>, he thought. <em class="calibre7">Gave me my required eight
      hours of 'rest.'</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Spell preparation is a bit of an odd quirk of the Wizard class.
      It involved carefully poring over every intricate detail of the
      magic and memorizing it, but also, at the same time, casting the
      vast majority of the spell. Ninety-five percent of the casting was
      done during preparation so that only the very final stage had to be
      done on the fly. The result was that every Wizard went about their
      day holding, depending on their level, potentially dozens of
      unimaginably complicated spells all at the point of being
      <em class="calibre7">almost</em> finished. Each spell was like a sentence that just
      didn't <em class="calibre7">quite</em>. Was it any wonder that so many powerful
      Wizards went mad?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not like I have anything better to do," Fudge muttered. "Just a
      country to run, that's all. Don't mind me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It takes a Wizard exactly one hour to prepare all of their
      spells, regardless of how many there are. However, a very
      infrequently used rule allows them to prepare a <em class="calibre7">fraction</em>
      of their daily allotment of spells in the same fraction of time, to
      a minimum of fifteen minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo could prepare at most seventeen spells per day, so in
      fifteen minutes he could prepare one-quarter of that (four spells).
      He chose <em class="calibre7">Prestidigitation</em>, <em class="calibre7">Tenser's Floating
      Disk</em>, <em class="calibre7">Mage Hand,</em> and <em class="calibre7">Invisibility</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He quickly stashed his spellbook back into his belt and stood
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," he said. "Let's do this thing. But if we're doing it,
      we're doing it <em class="calibre7">right</em>. I'm a Wizard. I shouldn't have to
      <em class="calibre7">prove</em> that to you—but seeing as how you're forcing me, I
      want to make sure there are <em class="calibre7">absolutely</em> no doubts after the
      fact. And for that, I demand your largest cauldron."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
