<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 11, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gone?" Sirius repeated hollowly later that night when Harry
      snuck out to meet him. "Gone? What do you <em class="calibre8">mean</em> he's
      gone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "I suppose it was too much to hope for that you
      had completely ignored my explicit instructions and taken them
      early."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would I have? You said you were going to take care of it,"
      Sirius pointed out. "I still can't believe he's gone. I mean, I was
      <strong class="calibre9">so</strong> close…so close...and now he's gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not he," Harry corrected. "They. The Diary Horcrux is gone,
      too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius groaned. "You know, I may have been rotting away in
      Azkaban at this point the last time you were a second year, but
      given that Wormtail was with the Weasley's in Egypt, I can still be
      fairly certain that this didn't happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right," Harry agreed. "The only question is, why did it
      happen? Why would Pettigrew have taken off with the diary?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shot Harry a look. "Oh, I don't know. Maybe it was when
      you announced that I was your pet <em class="calibre8">Padfoot</em>. Maybe even
      though Wormtail managed to not spook when I escaped Azkaban because
      I didn't really show any inclination to make your life harder by
      showing a vested interest in getting into Hogwarts, he heard my
      name and decided that it was either the most incredible
      coincidence, or I was here and out to get him. As to why he took
      the diary…I don't know. Maybe he recognized it from when Voldemort
      gave it to Lucius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glared at Sirius, completely ignoring the last part of his
      statement. "Well maybe that wasn't the best idea to call you that,
      but I don't recall you coming up with any better suggestions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure I did," Sirius argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, Snuffles? Sorry Sirius, no pet of mine will
      <strong class="calibre9">ever</strong> go by such a cutesy name. Seriously, if you
      want me to come up with a more badass way to have survived
      Voldemort than the Power of Love, then you've got to come up with a
      more badass alias than 'Snuffles.' Seriously, that sounds like
      something Ginny would have picked out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius started laughing. "Really? She can't have been that
      bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wanna bet? We got a rabbit last year and guess what Ginny named
      it. Flopsy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what did you want to call it?" Sirius managed to ask between
      his laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mega Ultra Flame Deathsman. Hey, that's a perfectly respectable
      name for a rabbit!" Harry insisted, crossing his arms as Sirius
      literally fell to the ground howling. "You know, if you're not
      going to take this seriously, I'm going back to bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few moments, Sirius composed himself. "But Harry, I'm
      ALWAYS Siri-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One serious pun and I'm going back to bed," Harry warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine…" Sirius pouted. "So what are we going to do? We know that
      Pettigrew is off somewhere with the diary, but we don't know if he
      knows it's a Horcrux or not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not. After all, if the likes of Lucius Malfoy and
      Bellatrix Lestrange, who, by all accounts, were two of Voldemort's
      favorites, never knew, I can't imagine why a spy would be told. No
      one ever trusts a spy. After all, if they can be a double agent,
      they can be a triple agent just as easily."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of-" Sirius began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "YES, Sirius, I'm positive Snape really
      is on our side. You really should let this go. It's not healthy to
      carry a grudge for twenty years or so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try telling that to him…" Sirius muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, to be fair, you did try to kill him when he was sixteen
      and that was probably very traumatic," Harry said diplomatically.
      "I mean, I know I was traumatized when Remus transformed that night
      at the Shrieking Shack, and he didn't even get a chance to try and
      kill me. Thanks for that, by the way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't mention it. After all, what are godfathers for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I do tell him this. On a regular basis. But to my credit, I
      think I've managed to annoy him so much that he's somewhat stopped
      seeing me as my father and now sees me as my own extremely
      irritating person," Harry said proudly. With a little effort, he'd
      managed in one year what he previously hadn't been able to
      accomplish in six.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Way to go," Sirius said appreciatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Getting back on topic, even though Wormtail won't know what the
      diary is, he'll probably end up writing in it at some point. When
      he does, he'll realize that this is the closest he's going to get
      to Voldemort's orders. He'll keep writing and probably get
      possessed. When he does…" Harry sighed heavily. "When he does, the
      Chamber of Secrets will probably be opened again."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew he had forgotten something. It was bugging him all
      morning; he just couldn't quite remember what it was. This was a
      rare instance in which Neville's Remembrall might have been useful,
      except that Harry already knew that he'd forgotten something and as
      the magical mood ring wouldn't tell him what, exactly, he'd
      forgotten, Harry knew he'd probably have just gotten frustrated and
      thrown it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, it wasn't realistic to expect Harry to remember
      everything. On the other hand, now the platform had sealed itself
      and he and Ron were trapped outside while everyone else was trapped
      inside and the train had just left. Last time, of course, they'd
      flown the Weasley's car to school. Of course, that was incredibly
      dangerous and highly irresponsible and they should really wait for
      Ron's parents and…Oh, who was he kidding?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll drive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Climbing into the passenger seat, Ron looked at Harry
      skeptically. "Do you even know how to drive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Harry said matter-of-factly. "Everyone who's lived
      in the Muggle world knows how to drive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it's like the Muggle version of flying?" Ron asked as Harry
      took off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um…kind of…" Harry lied. He did, in fact, know how to drive,
      having been bullied into getting a license by Hermione shortly
      after he defeated Voldemort. "They have a sport based on it at any
      rate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like Quidditch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A little. It's more about racing the cars and hoping they don't
      crash into each other or into the wall or spontaneously combust in
      the process," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggles are strange," Ron commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That they are, Ron. That they are," Harry said absently as he
      sped up, looking for the train. It was pretty simple, just
      following the tracks. After about ten minutes, they found had
      caught up to the Express. Harry started to slowly descend, aiming
      to land on the top of the train.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you crazy? You can't land here!" Ron shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Harry asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll get us both killed!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I will not. It'll be fine. See?" To prove his point, Harry
      slowly brought them down to the last compartment. The landing was a
      little bumpy, but then, the train was moving at roughly 60 miles an
      hour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked green and stumbled out of the car and to the edge of
      the train. He then promptly vomited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wrinkled his nose. "Nice. How about you go first?" he
      suggested, helping Ron down into the compartment below them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once his friend was out of sight, Harry took out his wand,
      tapped the car, and whispered, "Portus." Harry watched the car
      vanish with some satisfaction. It had taken him awhile to get the
      hang of that spell. He then followed Ron into the compartment below
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A stray spell immediately grazed his ear. "What the hell?" Harry
      asked, looking around. He groaned. Of course; they had picked the
      second-year Slytherins's compartment. "Can you guys just chill for
      a second?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Chill?" Draco repeated. "What does that mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, um, never mind," Harry said, deciding it was best not to
      mention that that was Muggle slang. "Why are you guys attacking
      each other? I was only up there for two minutes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were minding our own business when suddenly a Gryffindor
      fell from the sky. We thought we were under attack," a blonde
      Slytherin girl Harry vaguely recognized as Daphne Greengrass told
      him innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was nine on one; how can that <em class="calibre8">possibly</em> be
      considered self-defense?" Harry asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We thought it was a Weasley invasion and the rest of his
      siblings would follow him," a redhead Harry was fairly certain was
      Tracey Davis explained. Hm. He really should pay more attention to
      the students in his year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "I'm sure. Anyway, Ron, I got rid of the
      car so with any luck, you're parents will just think that they're
      going crazy and we didn't take the car."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you get rid of the car?" Ron asked, confused. "I don't
      think we learned any spells to do that last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I kinda got that part. But <em class="calibre8">how</em> exactly did
      you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Am I to understand that you flew a car from Kings Cross Station
      to here?" Draco interrupted, raising an eyebrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep," Harry beamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there any point in asking why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remember when I asked you to order Dobby not to steal my mail?"
      Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I forgot to ask you to have him not try to save my life,"
      Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you flew a car to the Hogwarts Express because my house elf
      wants to save your life?" Draco repeated incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Basically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to need to explain that," Draco said bluntly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed theatrically. "He's apparently gotten it into his
      head that Hogwarts is a walking death trap and therefore I'm better
      off with my Muggle relatives and in particular my Muggle uncle who
      could snap at any time and try and strangle me. Therefore, he
      sealed the portal to the platform and Ron and I got bored so we
      decided not to wait for everyone to fix the mess and just fly
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco just stared at him. "That has got to be the stupidest
      thing I've ever heard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that is a fine example of the pot calling the kettle black.
      Seriously, though, you sound like Hermione…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco just made a face at him. "Do you think he'll try to,
      *ahem* 'save your life' again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Almost certainly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, this is bloody ridiculous. Dobby!" Draco called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Master?" Dobby asked hesitantly when he appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I order you to stop trying to save Harry's life. It's very
      annoying. Just let him stay at Hogwarts. Got that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes, Master Draco," Dobby said, his ears drooping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great, now go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a pop, Dobby was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Harry said, relieved. "I really owe you one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco waved it aside. "Don't mention it. Just get the Weasel out
      of my compartment before we're forced to hex him again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. Bye Draco, bye rest of the second year Slytherins I don't
      like as much as Draco," Harry waved cheerfully as he dragged Ron to
      the next compartment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next compartment they tried had Cedric and Cho Chang in it,
      flirting shamelessly. Then they came across the Weasley twins, Lee
      Jordan, Angelina Johnson, Alicia Spinnet, and Katie Bell examining
      the twins' pranking supplies. They encountered Oliver Wood and
      Percy playing Wizarding Chess (Oliver had made some comment about
      how it was nice that they won the Cup last year because that was
      the first time they had won since Charlie Weasley left. Percy had
      pointed out that Charlie had only graduated two years ago and
      Oliver threw a book at his head). In fact, it seemed like they had
      passed most of the Hogwarts population before they finally came
      across Hermione and Neville, who were sitting in one of the first
      compartments with Ginny and Luna Lovegood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There you are!" Harry said exasperated. "We've been looking
      everywhere for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think that's my line," Hermione said, amused. "Neville and I
      looked up and down the train for you twice before we finally just
      grabbed this compartment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were supposed to follow Mum and I through the portal but we
      didn't see you," Ginny pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's because the platform sealed itself and we flew Dad's car
      to the Hogwarts Express," Ron said bluntly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did <em class="calibre8">WHAT</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it you don't approve?" Harry asked mildly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I don't approve! You could have been spotted! Or
      killed! Or…or expelled!" Hermione finished, looking horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've already been over this, Hermione," Harry said gently.
      "It'll take a lot more than that to expel someone. Especially me.
      Hell, my godfather didn't get expelled for trying to feed Professor
      Snape to a werewolf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't your godfather Sirius Black?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had forgotten that he had mentioned that on Christmas to
      Ron, the twins, Percy, and Tonks. He supposed he was fortunate that
      Tonks had forgotten that when he mentioned that Sirius (in dog
      form) was his godfather. Well, either that or she thought he was
      joking. Otherwise he might have had problems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well, yes," he finally managed to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked even more horrified. "Dear God, he tried to feed
      Professor Snape to a werewolf and was still allowed to attend
      Hogwarts? What was Dumbledore thinking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Everyone short of Voldemort deserves 53
      chances?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why 53?" Neville asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a nice, even number."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No it's not," Neville said, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not the point. The point is: we totally flew Ron's dad's
      car halfway to school and then I used my incredible awesomeness to
      send it back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As long as you didn't tell anyone, I guess we can just pretend
      that it never happened then," Hermione said reluctantly. She
      paused. "Wait. You didn't tell anyone, did you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron and Harry looked at each other for a minute, then Ron
      quickly asked his sister about what she thought of the Hogwarts
      experience thus far and Harry introduced himself to Luna. Neville
      was thus left to try and calm Hermione down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After all, they'd totally told everyone they happened to come
      across.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Welcoming Feast was very nice, no less because he hadn't
      been expecting to get to attend it when he and Ron had initially
      taken the car. Harry cheered loudly when Ginny made it to
      Gryffindor and he also convinced Fred, George, Hermione, Neville,
      and Ron to cheer with him when Luna made it to Ravenclaw. That
      attracted some strange looks as no one ever cheered for anyone not
      in their House, but when had that ever stopped Harry?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Best of all, he was receiving some suspicious looks from the
      staff-no doubt they had heard the rumors of his and Ron having
      commandeered Ron's parents' flying car-but as none of the
      Slytherins who saw them enter the train felt particularly inclined
      to tattle, there was really nothing they could do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was a bit tired from the all-night 'Harry and Ron flew a
      car halfway to Hogwarts and got away with it' party in the Common
      Room, but he was overall quite cheerful the next morning. Everyone
      had been there, even Percy (who Harry had to spend twenty minutes
      convincing that their little excursion was just an excuse to hold a
      party and if they had just ridden the train like everyone else,
      they would have been celebrating the Welcoming Feast).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up from his breakfast in time to see the Weasley
      family owl, Errol, practically collapse in front of Ron. And what's
      more, it had a Howler in its beak. Ron turned pale and everyone in
      the Great Hall (who had looked up at the sight of Errol practically
      dying) looked torn between leaning closer to hear what Ron's
      parents were going to say about the incident or running from the
      room. Seriously, Howlers were annoying. Yes, it was plenty
      embarrassing for the person receiving them, but the parents should
      really keep their admonishments more private. Not to mention that
      everyone in the Great Hall didn't particularly care to hear a
      lecture every time any student screwed up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, Harry solved their dilemma for them. He casually
      opened the letter and it started screeching "RONALD BILIUS
      WEASLEY!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, that was as far as it got as Harry quickly tapped the
      Howler and whispered, "Muffliato."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Howler was still going, but no one could hear it anymore.
      Well, no one but him. Still, small price to pay for the way
      everyone was looking at him in awe at how he had defeated a Howler.
      Oh, and he saved Ron the embarrassment of getting chewed out by his
      mother in front of everybody. That was nice, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And did he hear some murmurs already of the
      "Boy-Who-Silenced"?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wizards sure did love their hyphens.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
