<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 15, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The following morning, everyone was pleased but mystified as to
      why giant chocolate pumpkins with a cursory note from the Great
      Pumpkin wishing them a Happy Halloween. As Harry went down to
      breakfast, Cedric called out to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still don't believe you," the older boy said
      matter-of-factly. "Both about the Great Pumpkin and about the
      lengths you'd go to to convince me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just don't want to pay up," Harry argued. "And how else do
      you explain that delightful and thoughtful Halloween gift?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure I don't know," Cedric said. "But you're probably
      behind it. I don't know how you did it, but it was definitely
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"God, you're starting to sound like Snape…" Harry muttered. "And
      what makes you think that I'm worthy to be the Great Pumpkin's
      assistant anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think you're worthy to be the Great Pumpkin's assistant
      because <em class="calibre8">the Great Pumpkin is not real</em>," Cedric said
      slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked pained. "See if the Great Pumpkin comes to visit
      you next year. I bet next you'll say that you don't believe in
      Santa Claus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric's brow furrowed. "But I DON'T-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Silence!" Harry held up his hand. "I will not hear your lies.
      Good day." With that he walked over to the Gryffindor table and,
      after a moment's debate, sat down across from Ginny. He did promise
      he'd try, after all; he just wished she'd hurry up and get over him
      so he could pursue her. As convoluted as that sounded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Ginny," Harry greeted her. "Like your pumpkin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny, who had begun to blush the minute he sat down,
      brightened. "Uh-huh. I'm not entirely sure that I believe in this
      'Great Pumpkin', but if he's willing to give me massive amounts of
      chocolate, I guess I can play along."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the spirit," Harry beamed. "But don't ask Luna about
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny cocked her head at him curiously and Harry remembered that
      since the two lived so close together they were already
      more-or-less friends. "Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If the teachers heard some of her theories on the Great
      Pumpkin, they might ban any visits in future years," Harry
      confided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Ginny said, as if that explained everything. When it came
      to Luna, it usually did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't find it!" Hermione complained as she slid in next to
      Ginny. Ron and Neville each took a place on one side of Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't find what?" Harry asked, genuinely confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both copies of <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: A History</em> have been checked
      out!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. May I ask why in the world that book is so popular when
      I know for a fact that the last person before you to check it out
      was my mother?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone wants information about the Chamber of Secrets,"
      Neville told him. "The pumpkins were a nice distraction to stop
      everyone from panicking, but there was still a mad library rush
      this morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Hermione made <em class="calibre8">us</em> come along with her to look for a
      copy. When she found out that both copies were gone, she made us
      look around the library like she thought Madame Pince was lying to
      her and was secretly stashing extra copies under the tables and in
      the Restricted Section. Boy was searching there without Madame
      Pince noticing fun," Ron added, shuddering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Hermione, don't you remember that last year I got you a
      copy of that exact book? Why ever do you need to check one out from
      the library?" Harry inquired. He vaguely remembered getting her
      that book the year before and, though he wasn't particularly
      interested in her answer, he didn't put it past some of the people
      who were far-too-interested in his life (not that he minded, this
      time around) to drive themselves crazy wondering about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With all those Lockhart books we needed, there wasn't room in
      my trunk for it," Hermione explained. "So I had to leave it at
      home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wasted all that space with Lockhart books but you couldn't
      bring <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: A History</em>?" Ron asked, rolling his eyes.
      "No, you definitely don't have a crush on him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't blush like Ron clearly expected her to. "
      'Wasted'? Ron, those Lockhart books are our textbooks. Of course I
      brought them. It would make no sense to leave any of my textbooks
      at home so I could bring a personal reading book, particularly when
      the library has two copies and usually nobody uses them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Although this doesn't explain why you didn't carry it on with
      you or have it owled to you," Neville pointed it out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My parents aren't comfortable with owls," Hermione explained.
      "And I suppose it just didn't occur to me to carry it on. I can't
      be expected to think of <em class="calibre8">everything</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why didn't you wake me?" Harry asked, a little annoyed that he
      missed an excellent opportunity to cause chaos. Now that she
      mentioned it, he did distantly remember Hermione not having a copy
      of the book in the original timeline for those exact same
      reasons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We tried," Neville assured him. "You started hexing us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't remember this," Harry said, rubbing his chin
      thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's because you were still asleep," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh honestly," Hermione scoffed. "It's not like he sleeps with
      his wand under his pillow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny giggled at the look on Harry's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, actually, I kind of do," he corrected her. "Sorry I
      sleep-hexed you guys, but I'm glad I wasn't too sleep-annoyed or
      else you would probably still be in the Hospital Wing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's great Harry," Hermione said distractedly and with
      absolutely no sympathy for the suddenly wary-looking Ron and
      Neville. "But in the meantime, how am I supposed to learn about
      what happened to Mrs. Norris and the Chamber of Secrets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snapped his fingers. "Oh, that's right, I almost forgot."
      Harry stood up on top of his seat and cast a quick "Sonorous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Attention everyone," he boomed. The students all looked at him
      in interest and several teachers looked mildly annoyed. No one
      tried to stop him, though, which was always good. Dumbledore wasn't
      in the Great Hall to try and censor him for the students 'own good'
      which was better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It has come to my attention that no one except my best
      none-Quartet friend," Harry did his best to stop from flinching at
      the word 'Quartet' which he still had a strange aversion to, "Luna
      Lovegood and I know what actually happened last night. This isn't
      because I'm famous and she's awesome, although we certainly are
      that. It's because we're reporters and reporters always know
      everything before anyone else does. After all, if we didn't, we'd
      be kind of unemployed. But anyway! Last night a supposedly dead
      parent-betrayer illegal rat animagus whose name my scar is not
      clear on but is fairly certain rhymes with 'Peter Pettigrew' broke
      into the castle – in illegal rat animagus form – and opened the
      Chamber of Secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would he do that?" Percy asked, skeptical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because he was possessed by an evil diary that used to belong
      to Tom Riddle. That's right, you heard me: Lord Bloody
      I'm-So-Scary-No-One-Can-Bear-To-Say-My-Name Voldemort," Harry
      paused to wait for the gasps to die down, "kept a diary. Granted,
      he enchanted it to cause anyone else who writes in it to open up
      the Chamber of Secrets and attack people, but it's still a diary.
      And for that matter who writes in another person's diary? That's
      just kind of bizarre and definitely in bad taste…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you saying you know what's in the Chamber of Secrets?"
      Justin Finch-Fletchley (who Harry was slightly peeved at for
      shunning him when Harry was over at the Hufflepuff table to talk to
      Cedric) asked, fear obvious in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that because you're responsible for-" Ernie MacMillan
      began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, in the interest of quelling the soon-to-be-rampant
      (especially after what he had planned for the Dueling Club) rumors
      about him being the Heir of Slytherin and not letting the rather
      pompous Ernie steal <em class="calibre8">his</em> precious spotlight, quickly cut
      him off. "No, no it is not. Trust me: if I were responsible for
      this I wouldn't be hiding my ability and I certainly wouldn't be
      petrifying people for free. Instead, I would market it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was almost sad how convinced everyone looked at that. They
      wouldn't necessarily believe he would never petrify anybody, but
      they would believe he was that obsessed with money. He wasn't,
      really, it was all just a game. A test to see just how far he could
      use his fame before there was a backlash. "There is a basilisk in
      the Chamber of Secrets. You can get the full story about the
      Chamber in <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: A History</em>, but unfortunately there is
      apparently a huge waiting list for the school's TWO those of you
      who don't know, a basilisk is a giant snake – the one in our school
      is approximately sixty feet long – that has very poisonous fangs
      and will kill you if you make eye contact. If you look at its
      reflection, you will only be petrified. Fortunately, I have a
      supply of mirrors, books, and Mandrake Potion – which will
      unpetrify you – on hand. The Mandrake Potion is free but the
      mirrors are ten sickles each and the books are five galleons. For
      an extra five sickles, I can sign your book. That will be available
      after breakfast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how do you know all of this?" Justin repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My scar told me," Harry said. "That's all you really need to
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think scars work like that," Penelope Clearwater said,
      frowning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who's the one with a one-of-a-kind killing curse scar, you or
      me?" Harry asked her rhetorically. When she didn't answer, he
      continued. "I think that makes ME the expert. Now, Filch's cat has
      already be unpetrified and while that may annoy some of you, know
      that this is also proof that the Mandrake Potion is both effective
      and quick, so even though the fact that the Basilisk is moving
      through the pipes means it can appear anywhere at anytime, as long
      as you always use a mirror to look around a corner, you should be
      fine. Now, who wants to buy something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was immediately mobbed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, are you sure this is entirely ethical?" Hermione asked
      him later that day as they were heading over to look at the place
      where Mrs. Norris was petrified. Apparently <em class="calibre8">someone</em> had
      turned the blood-red lettering of Riddle's message neon-pink.
      "Using people's panic to make a profit and withholding potentially
      life-saving tools in times of crisis?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax, Hermione," Harry told her. "No one really needs
      <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: A History</em> and now that so many people are buying
      it, the waiting list in the library should be much more reasonable
      for those that can't afford it. The mirror is essential but lots of
      people possess hand-held mirrors and just bought one from me
      because they are trademark Harry Potter Mirrors and for those that
      don't have a mirror and need one, I consulted some of the less
      well-off students and ten sickles is a very reasonable price. As
      for profiting off of everyone's panic, well…guilty as charged. But
      you heard Neville! I also stopped people from panicking with my
      pumpkins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was you?" Ron asked, wide-eyed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it was," Hermione said rolling her eyes. "What did
      you think; there actually was a Great Pumpkin out there you've
      never heard of until today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, isn't this where all the water came from last night?"
      Harry asked. "Let's go see where it came from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Hermione agreed and headed in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron didn't move. "I can't go in there!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Neville asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a girl's bathroom!" Ron said gruffly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh grow up," Harry advised. "In a couple more years you'll be
      begging for a reason to come in here. Besides, there are just
      stalls in girl's bathrooms so it's not like you'd even see anything
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Looking incredibly reluctant, Ron allowed Neville and Harry to
      pull him into the bathroom, where, to their surprise, they found
      Luna trying to talk Hermione into getting a subscription to the
      Quibbler. She didn't appear to be making much progress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't bother with her just yet, Luna," Harry told her.
      "She's just not ready."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Immediately, Luna's expression became much more somber. "I am so
      sorry," she said sincerely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean you're sorry? For what? And what am I not
      ready for?" Hermione demanded, looking a bit affronted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not ready for the Quibbler," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, who looked as if she were of the opinion that it was
      the Quibbler that was not ready for her, narrowed her eyes. "Why
      not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you didn't even consider the possibility that the Great
      Pumpkin is real," Luna said matter-of-factly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione did a double take. "How do you even know that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were debating its existence with Neville when you were in
      the library this morning," Luna explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What were you doing in the library?" Hermione asked, uncertain
      she wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Checking out two copies of <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: A History</em>," Luna
      replied brightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "I love you Luna, I really do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione could only gape wordlessly and with not a little
      outrage at the blonde Ravenclaw. She had spent three hours looking
      for a copy, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seeing this, Neville quickly stepped in. "So, why does that
      disqualify Hermione from being Quibbler material."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna gave him an amused look. "If you can't even entertain that
      notion, then you will NOT be able to handle some of our more
      interesting news."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you even doing here, Luna?" Harry asked
      conversationally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was doing a follow-up interview with Myrtle here," Luna said,
      gesturing towards the ghost who had until that point been hiding in
      one of the toilets. "Seeing as how she left so abruptly last night
      after Peeves started teasing her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You really shouldn't let him get to you like that," Harry
      added. "He's just bitter that the ghosts won't accept him because
      he's not technically dead and he has no purpose but to cause as
      much havoc as possible. Now, while Fred, George, and I may think
      that that is a noble mission, I'm sure being completely isolated at
      all times since the beginning of your existence must get a little
      frustrating at times and so he took it out on you. He can't really
      do anything about the isolation, either, because just imagine what
      would happen if there were to be <em class="calibre8">two</em> Poltergeists at
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone took a moment to contemplate that and quickly realized
      that Harry was right and that must never, ever be allowed to
      happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Myrtle admitted. "But sometimes he just gets to be too
      much! I mean, I was killed right at the height of puberty so not
      only am I eternally bespectacled and acne-ridden, but I'm hormonal
      as hell and liable to cry at the drop of a hat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am so sorry," Harry told her honestly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to mention I was on my period at the time…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could only wince. He'd had plenty of second-hand
      experience with PMS. "Wow. That…that sucks. I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Myrtle nodded. "Thank you. Now if you'll excuse me, I think I'm
      about to cry for no reason I can think of so I'd like to be alone
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bye," Luna said waving. "Thanks for the interview."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"RON!" Percy Weasley shouted the minute they emerged from the
      bathroom. "That's a girl's bathroom! What were you-?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron's considering a sex change," Harry said seriously. "He's
      still undecided, so we're showing him all the differences there
      will be if he ever goes through with it and going to the girls'
      bathroom instead of the boys' will definitely be one of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy opened and closed his mouth a few times but no sound came
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You prat," Ron swatted at Harry. "I am not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank God," Percy said, relieved. "I don't even want to think
      about how I would explain how you became 'Ronnie' to Mother. But as
      a prefect, I'm still obligated to ask what you were doing in
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We-" Harry began but Ron shot him a glare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll handle this, if you don't mind," Ron took a deep breath.
      "We went to go stare at the pink writing and then Harry decided to
      go investigate why the girls' bathroom flooded and when I said that
      I couldn't go in there he assured me that once puberty hit I'd be
      singing a different tune and when we got in there, Harry's friend
      Luna was interview Moaning Myrtle, Myrtle got depressed, and we
      left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy blinked. "No, really, why were you in there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what happened," Ron insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I swear I must be getting old," Percy muttered. "Do you have
      any idea how this looks? Coming back here when everyone else is
      down at dinner…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So nobody will see us up here," Harry shrugged. "Besides,
      everyone's been coming up to stare at the wall all day. There's
      really not much to do around here. Hogwarts is surprisingly dull as
      far as magical schools go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is not!" Hermione and Percy exclaimed, scandalized,
      simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, at Durmstrang the Forbidden Forest isn't a detention
      waiting to happen: it's a rite of passage. And one third of
      Beauxbatons students aren't fully human. Imagine how exciting those
      schools must be on a day to day basis," Harry said dreamily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have a Basilisk; that's exciting," Ron said defensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really; it's only attacked a cat. At Hogwarts we need
      Voldemort himself to come and liven things up despite the fact that
      he's dead," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh honestly, Ron, it's just a name," Hermione said exasperated
      as the boy had flinched upon hearing Riddle's alias. This time,
      Harry had taken great pains to ensure that Hermione never succumbed
      to ridiculous wizarding practices of refusing to actually refer to
      Voldemort as anything but 'He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named' or
      'You-Know-Who.' After all, if they called him
      'He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named' then they were, in fact, naming him and
      what if people DIDN'T know who?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can You-Know-Who be causing problems if he's dead?" Percy
      asked, frowning. "Is he a ghost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, he's just mostly dead," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mostly dead?" Neville repeated. "What's the difference?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a big difference between mostly dead and all dead. Now,
      mostly dead is slightly alive. Now, all dead...well, with all dead,
      there's usually only one thing that you can do," Luna said,
      grinning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go through his clothes and look for loose change," Harry
      finished. "I love Princess Bride! You know," he said, turning to
      his three best friends. "I don't know what it is, but lately Luna's
      been beating you guys in the friends department hands down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not our fault we're not insane," Hermione said, crossing
      her arms. "No offense, Luna."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would I be offended?" Luna asked. "I've seen your version
      of sanity. It bores me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, why were you up here?" Neville asked. "Isn't that as
      suspicious as us being up here, even if you are a Prefect? In fact,
      I'd say its even more suspicious as you're old enough to
      conceivably know how to petrify someone and we aren't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-" Percy began, turning very red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he was probably just off making out with Penelope
      Clearwater, his girlfriend," Harry guessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just…just go down to dinner," Percy said hastily, shaking his
      head and hurrying away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Ginny actually had lines for the first time since first
      year ended, I believe, even if it was short. For some reason, Luna
      is just SO much easier to write than Ginny. I honestly don't know
      what it is, but I just love love Luna. She's so much fun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
