<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 20, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: I'm sure that there are a whole bunch of ways that Harry
      could stop the whole Basilisk thing right now. Unfortunately, they
      haven't occurred to Harry because once the main plot of the school
      year is resolved, there really isn't anything to do but a huge time
      skip, developing a romance (at twelve?), or moving future events
      backwards in time (which there would be no logical reason for
      doing). Since Harry already won't have to deal with thinking Sirius
      is out to get him next year, he's going to be more preoccupied with
      keeping everyone safe while simultaneously annoying them all than
      animagi-proofing the castle. Besides, if that were possible, I'm
      sure it would have occurred to Dumbledore at some point. He's not
      <em class="calibre8">that</em> lax on security.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Hermione said triumphantly the day before the term ended.
      "We're not the only ones to think Malfoy is the Heir of
      Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, ever since you had a bunch of witnesses when Ernie was
      attacked, everyone has been off your case and on his," Ron chimed
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's really quite fortunate that nobody realizes I could have
      just ordered the Basilisk to attack him beforehand," Harry
      mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His three friends stared at him. "But…you didn't, right Harry?"
      Neville asked finally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Harry scoffed. "But the point is that I
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I recommend keeping that bit of information to yourself,"
      Neville advised. "Or else people will NEVER let go of the idea that
      you're responsible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that I don't fully support the idea that Malfoy is the
      Heir," Ron began. "But Harry…you're his friend – Merlin knows why –
      and shouldn't you be doing something to make people stop suspecting
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. That was a strange situation, all right.
      "Normally, I would," he agreed. "On the other hand, Draco is a
      Slytherin from an old Dark Pureblood family. To him, being the Heir
      of Slytherin is a badge of pride and so even though he's not
      responsible, he doesn't mind people thinking he is. What's more,
      he's the one who came to me with the idea of making everyone think
      he's the Heir and I went along with it because the truth will come
      out soon enough and the teacher's totally don't' believe him
      anyway, so it's not like it really does any harm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that's the case, why are you so sure he's not?" Hermione
      asked reasonably. Or, as reasonably as one could be when espousing
      the theory that Draco Malfoy was the Heir of Slytherin. "He could
      be playing you and just asking for help in taking the credit that
      he already deserves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean other than the fact that he's twelve, not a
      Parselmouth, and thinks being able to attack people with a giant
      snake is 'wicked'?" Harry asked. "Seriously, even Voldemort didn't
      go around setting the Basilisk on Muggleborns until he was
      sixteen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron flinched. "Stop saying that!" he said, annoyed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop telling me not to say that," Harry shot back. "It's not
      going to do any good and getting into another argument about this
      with you will just make everything take twice as long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fact that we're talking to you automatically makes
      everything take twice as long as it normally would," Neville
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then perhaps Ron should not be so eager to make everything take
      four times as long as it normally would," Harry said mildly. "But
      that reminds me: I've got your Polyjuice. Now go away and don't try
      to drag me into this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione woke them up at the crack of dawn on Christmas morning,
      proving that she was indeed sadistic enough to be the daughter of
      dentists.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have five seconds to tell me what you're doing in here
      before I hex you," Harry growled sleepily. He and the rest of the
      Gryffindor Quidditch team (plus Lee) had just had their monthly
      all-night tournament. This time it was exploding snap and since
      they wouldn't have Quidditch Practice the next morning, Wood joined
      in for once. It was great fun, naturally, but unless Hermione had a
      good reason to be barging in there twenty minutes after he had
      fallen asleep…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Polyjuice Potion is ready!" Hermione exclaimed excitedly,
      bouncing up and down on the balls of her feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it's ready," Harry snapped, not a morning person
      under the best of circumstances. "I gave it to you last week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes," Hermione admitted. "But I thought we could use it
      today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Breakfast isn't for another three hours! How could we possibly
      hope to use it before then?" Harry demanded. Then, realizing his
      mistake, he corrected, "And by 'we' I mean 'you.' I still think
      this is stupid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think half the things that you do are stupid-" Hermione began
      heatedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only half?" Ron muttered, covering his head with a pillow to
      block out the sunlight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe she just doesn't pay enough attention," Neville murmured
      back, copying Ron's method of refusing to admit it was morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that doesn't mean I try to stop you!" Hermione
      concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since when have I been trying to stop you?" Harry asked
      incredulously. "I bought you the bloody potion! And let me tell
      you, that did not come cheap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'm sure you made the money back within twenty-four hours,"
      Hermione said dismissively. "Besides, you only helped so we
      wouldn't endanger our Potions class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh please," Harry laughed. "Like I couldn't have stopped that.
      The only reason it would have worked on Snape was because he didn't
      know you were planning it and would have undoubtedly have been busy
      with the other kids who were trying to kill each other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right then, Hedwig flew in and dropped a medium-sized package on
      Harry's head. Ouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, that's it," Harry said determinedly. "I don't care what
      day it is; it is just too damn early. Out, all of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Harry…" Hermione protested. "The potion-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Out!" Harry shouted, waving his mind and banishing Hermione
      down the stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks for that, mate," Ron said, snuggling deeper into his
      pillow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What part about all of you didn't you get?" Harry asked,
      raising his wand again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But-" Neville began, horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry said apologetically. "But she won't stop until
      you guys go help her with that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's good to know where your priorities lie," Ron muttered as
      he reluctantly got up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well, I need sleep," Harry told him. "Oh, but take this."
      Harry waved his wand at his trunk and a vial with a few hairs
      floated out and into Ron's empty hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's this?" Ron asked, inspecting it carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A few of Pansy Parkinson's hairs," Harry explained. "Tell
      Hermione that Polyjuice potion should NOT be used with cat
      hair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you-" Neville began. "Wait, don't answer that. You're
      scar told you," he said sarcastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know me too well," Harry said as he waved his wand once
      more to shut the curtains and went back to sleep.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry finally got around to getting up and opening his
      presents, he found that the Dursleys had actually sent individual
      presents. Uncle Vernon had sent him a cross and a note saying how
      he was going to hell for worshipping Satan and proving that once
      again he knew nothing about magic, Aunt Petunia had sent a book on
      gardening which he immediately gave to Neville, and Dudley got him
      a bunch of CDs which (due to the lack of electricity at Hogwarts
      and his own lack of a CD player) Harry strung up and hung around
      the Common Room, creating a cool rainbow effect when the light hit
      them. Harry had sent Aunt Petunia some rare but Muggle seedlings,
      Dudley some magical sweets that would probably freak him out for
      about twenty minutes before he gave in and ate them all within the
      day, and Uncle Vernon twenty galleons so as to torture his Uncle
      with the dilemma of exchanging his wizarding coins for Muggle money
      or not accepting free money. This would probably agonize him for
      days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid sent him a large tin of treacle fudge and Harry had sent
      him six Abraxan. Harry had decided pretty early on that he was
      going to celebrate the success of his money-making ventures by
      going all out this Christmas. Ron gave him <em class="calibre8">Flying with the
      Cannons</em>, which was an interesting enough read even if he
      despised that team. In turn, Harry had sent him a new wand.
      Hermione got him a luxury eagle-feathered quill and Harry (so help
      him) gave her a time-turner. Fortunately, he also gave her a guide
      on how to use it, straight from the Department of Mysteries itself.
      It really was nice sometimes that the Ministry was so corruptible
      as Harry was almost certain that what he did was worth a good ten
      years in Azkaban. The Weasleys had sent Harry a new hand-knitted
      jumper and a plum cake and Harry had responded by purchasing them a
      House Elf - something he was NOT looking forward to Hermione
      finding out about. It's not like he wasn't all for House Elf
      rights, it was just that Dobby was the only House Elf he had
      actually met who <em class="calibre8">wanted</em> them and he figured he should
      probably stay away from enacting new magical creature legislation
      until he had at least graduated. Things like that were very
      time-consuming, as he knew from experience. And the Weasley's were
      in Egypt visiting Bill for Christmas. If they could afford that,
      then why was it such a big deal that they won the 1000 Galleon Draw
      over the summer and went back? Maybe it was cheaper when it was
      just the two of them and not seven of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny had gotten him some owl treats for Hedwig and he had
      gotten her a year's supply of Honeydukes chocolate because he
      didn't know her as well as he might have liked. Fred and George had
      sent him several seemingly innocuous desserts that he was afraid to
      try without a lengthy examination and a possible guinea pig and he
      had gotten them a book on inventing potions. He knew they could do
      it on their own, but this might make things go a little smoother.
      Tonks had sent him some of Sirius's old schoolbooks that he and
      Harry's father had written all over when they were supposed to be
      listening in class and Harry had gotten her a rather expensive ring
      charmed with an anti-clumsiness spell for when she needed to be
      undercover once she finally got through Auror Training.
      Technically, he supposed she could wear it all the time, but he
      knew that Tonks had kind of liked being clumsy for whatever reason.
      Maybe she just saw it as integral to her personality? Percy had
      gotten him a book on the OWLs, which was just so typically Percy
      that it wasn't even funny and Harry had gotten him a set of new
      school robes as Harry knew pomp like that was important to Percy.
      Neville had gotten him book on Poltergeists as apparently Harry was
      starting to remind him of one (and dear God he was getting a lot of
      books. He could really sympathize with the Headmaster's desire for
      a pair of nicely woolen socks now and resolved to purchase some for
      himself at the earliest possible opportunity) and Harry had gotten
      him a couple gillyweed plants. Not that he was thinking ahead to
      fourth year or anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric had gotten him a book of '1000 Things I Never Had the
      Nerve to do at Hogwarts' and a note remarking that Harry had
      already done three dozen. Needless to say, Harry now had a new
      ambition in life. Harry himself had sent Cedric a book on the
      history of the Triwizard Tournament complete with task analysis and
      a note saying, 'You never know. But my scar does.' Draco had gotten
      him a top-of-the-line broomstick serving kit and Harry had gotten
      him the most extensive wizard genealogy in all of Europe. That
      probably wasn't the best plan if he wanted Draco to get over all of
      that Pureblood crap he kept spouting, but he knew Draco would love
      it and it <span>was</span> Christmas… Luna had gotten him a pair of
      X-Ray glasses that genuinely worked and looked just like his
      regular glasses so he knew he'd have fun with being able to look
      even more omniscient than usual. It made him very glad he had hired
      two dozen experienced trackers to find her a Crumple-Horned
      Snorkack, which turned out to be some sort of pig-like creature. He
      knew that would just make her day. He got Professor Dumbledore a
      pair of woolly mittens to go with his woolly socks, Professor
      Lockhart a book on calligraphy so he could have fun making his
      signature even more elaborate, an anonymous grant for Professor
      Snape to continue doing research, and Professor McGonagall a
      brand-new chess set, also anonymously. And of course, he sent the
      entire Hogwarts population a candy cane and everyone who had
      expressed faith in him a box full of chocolate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time Harry was finished admiring his presents and deigned
      to leave the Common Room, it was lunchtime and Harry was just in
      time for a quick bite to eat before he joined the traditional
      all-afternoon snowball fight. By the time that ended, it was dinner
      and Ron, Hermione, and Neville were getting up halfway through the
      meal to go chasing after Crabbe and Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Feel free to just ditch me; it's okay, I don't mind!" Harry
      called after them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you don't mind then why are you yelling at them?" Luna asked
      sitting down across from him and plopping his gift down next to
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I like yelling?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you do; you make all-school announcements in the Great
      Hall often enough. Thank you for Norbert," Luna said breezily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-Norbert?" Harry repeated. Like the dragon? Well, that was
      really a Norberta, but he wasn't supposed to know that yet. What
      were the odds that she would pick the same name as Hagrid? Although
      somehow he wasn't surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," Luna said serenely. "I asked Hagrid about name
      suggestions and he got a little teary-eyed when Norbert came up, so
      I figured that would be a good name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's just…yeah…" Harry said, not exactly eloquently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Strange?" Luna supplied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I get that a lot. For that matter, don't you?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do," Harry nodded. "What do you think about the theory that
      Draco Malfoy is the Heir of Slytherin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's ridiculous," Luna said instantly. "He would never write
      in a diary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Diary? So that means that you believe me about a supposedly
      dead parent-betrayer illegal rat animagus using Voldemort's old
      diary to open the Chamber of Secrets?" Harry asked, interested. No
      one had taken that part of his story seriously, even if they did
      believe him about the Basilisk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Luna nodded sagely. "It makes perfect sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to everyone else," Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most people don't believe in Norbert, either," Luna countered.
      "Although they will after he makes the front page of the next issue
      of the Quibbler."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you ever get frustrated in your attempt to educate the
      shee-er, wizarding world?" Harry asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna giggled at his near slip-up. "Sometimes. But if we don't do
      it, who will? Everyone else is just content to be stagnant for the
      rest of their lives and live lives almost identical to their
      ancestors and their descendents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know which is which?" Harry asked her, realizing that
      the question wasn't very clear and he should probably elaborate.
      Before he could do that though, Luna answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is truly sad the state of the world when so many people
      don't realize that ancestors are those who came before and
      descendents are those who come after," Luna said, shaking her head
      pityingly. "Where did your friends go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was strange, but Harry and Luna never really felt the need to
      use transitional phrases, they just abruptly changed the subject
      and the other one was expected to keep up. Again, very strange, but
      it worked for them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are off to go drug Crabbe and Goyle in order to
      impersonate them and Pansy Parkinson so they can go sneak into the
      Slytherin Common Room and try to worm a confession out of Draco,"
      Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Drugging students? Couldn't they get expelled for that?" Luna
      asked, interested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably," Harry acknowledged. Come to think of it, why hadn't
      Crabbe and Goyle gone to Dumbledore in the first place? Was it
      because they were embarrassed or didn't know who had drugged them?
      Was it because they didn't like the most prominent champion of
      Muggle rights or had they simply not noticed they had been drugged?
      Sure they could have thought they had fallen asleep, but he and Ron
      had taken their clothes and locked them in a closet. "Although they
      could probably also get expelled from deliberately causing an
      explosion in Potions Class, which they were planning to do so they
      could steal from Snape – another offence – until I stepped in and
      just bought them the damn potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Polyjuice, right?" Luna asked. At Harry's nod, she continued,
      "Wouldn't Draco Malfoy admitf it because he wants people to think
      he is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's blood froze. "That had honestly never occurred to
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I guess you'll get a pretty interesting debriefing when they
      come back," Luna smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. And they will be even harder to convince of Draco's
      innocence than Ernie is of mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I really don't understand is this: even if the Heir was a
      student and a Slytherin – which is actually a reasonable assumption
      given the name, unless they were planning this from the beginning
      and wanted to deflect suspicion – why are they suspecting a second
      year? They should be looking for a culprit amongst the
      upperclassmen," Luna said sensibly. It had also amazed him just how
      sensible Luna could be sometimes. He had remembered her as the most
      bizarre person he knew (which was still true) but he supposed that
      since the wizarding world practically had a logic phobia and Luna
      was so very different than the mainstream wizard, it was almost
      inevitable that she would have to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Simple," Harry laughed. "He's the only Slytherin they interact
      with on any kind of regular basis and he doesn't like them. Well,
      he's okay with Neville, but then, Neville is a Pureblood who
      doesn't buy Ron and Hermione's theory that he's the Heir and is
      really just going along to keep them out of trouble. Ron thinks all
      Slytherins are evil and the Weasleys and Malfoy seem to have some
      sort of blood feud going on anyway. Hermione is a Muggleborn and
      Draco really doesn't have very much experience with them, and so
      there are definite problems there. Plus he can't stand anyone who
      is so obviously smarter than him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Luna said. "That really makes no sense, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "Preaching to the choir, Luna, preaching to the
      choir…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
