<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 23, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s23" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 23</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Sorry for the delay in updating, but I've had the bad luck
      to be sick, flooded with homework, have several field trips, and
      just in general being very busy lately. Of course, May will be even
      worse with graduation...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, Ron, Neville, and Hermione traipsed down to see Hagrid
      after Harry (and team. But mostly Harry) had flattened Hufflepuff
      400 to 230. It had been a long game, but then that was what Harry
      got for having the worst broom in the game when everyone else was
      on equal footing. Still, the look on Cedric's face when Harry
      swooped in and grabbed the Snitch from right behind Cedric's ear –
      where it had been for at least five minutes that Harry was aware
      of, it was like the Snitch was stalking the older boy or
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Hagrid," Harry greeted. "Did you see the game? Or, more
      specifically, did you see the way I totally trounced Cedric despite
      the fact that my broom really doesn't hold a candle to his?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"O' course," Hagrid assured him. "Wouldn' miss it for the
      world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh please," Hermione said, annoyance clear on her face. "He has
      a Nimbus 2001. You have a Nimbus 2000. The two brooms came out
      within a year of each other. How much of a difference can there
      <em class="calibre8">possibly</em> be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other four did not dignify that question with a
      response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Men," Hermione huffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, because that's not sexist at <strong class="calibre9">all</strong>,
      Hermione," Neville said, rolling his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the real reason you didn't get a Nimbus 2001, Harry?"
      Ron took the opportunity to ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm holding out to make my godfather buy me a Firebolt next
      year," Harry confided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's brow wrinkled in confusion. "But isn't your
      godfather-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry said shortly. "Which is why he totally owes me
      years worth of Christmas presents. Honestly, he didn't even get me
      anything this year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But he's a mass murderer! And on the run!" Ron pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's this?" Hermione looked startled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know abou' Black?" Hagrid demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh look, Fudge!" Harry said, for once glad to see the man. He
      was SO not looking forward to having this conversation a full year
      early. Or at all, for that matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where?" Ron asked eagerly. Harry wondered briefly why in the
      world he was so excited to see the rather incompetent and extremely
      pompous Minister of Magic and then he realized that Ron had
      completely misunderstood what he said because he was, as per usual,
      thinking with his stomach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trust me, you probably don't want any if Hagrid made it,"
      Neville whispered to him, to low for Hagrid to hear. "Did you mean
      food, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I meant the Minister of Magic," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed, obviously not believing him but deciding to
      humor him anyway. "Why would the Minister of Magic be outside of
      Hagrid's hut?" she asked patiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry narrowed his eyes. "I don't know. It better not be what I
      think it is, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do yeh think they found out abou' the attacks?" Hagrid asked
      nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no proof," Harry was quick to reassure him. "Even if
      they did hear something, with our unpetrifaction rate, there's
      nothing to see and thus nothing they can do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why would they come after Hagrid?" Hermione was puzzled but
      thinking hard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because they're all a bunch of morons," Harry said simply.
      "What do you expect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid shot Harry a grateful look as there was a loud knock on
      the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You four, hide," Hagrid advised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone looked at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What makes you think I even have my Invisibility Cloak?" he
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <span>always</span> have your Invisibility Cloak," Neville
      replied calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what if I do?" Harry asked, crossing his arms defiantly.
      "It's not curfew for a good twenty minutes or so; we have every
      right to be here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid looked unsure for a moment before shrugging and said,
      "Suit yerself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening, Hagrid," Professor Dumbledore greeted him once
      the door was finally opened. "And…guests." He didn't really sound
      all that surprised to find Harry and his posse there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bad business, Hagrid," Fudge said curtly. "Very bad business.
      If it's true, well…We just can't take that risk. You under-What are
      you doing here?" he asked once he spotted the students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're visiting our dear friend Hagrid and having a nice
      conversation about how great it is that there isn't a basilisk
      loose at school this year because, quite frankly, that would
      <em class="calibre8">suck</em>," Harry lied, smiling brightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There…isn't?" Fudge looked confused. He turned to the man
      standing behind him. "But you said-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course there's a basilisk loose in the school," Lucius
      Malfoy interjected smoothly. "Draco wouldn't lie about a thing like
      that. Now, I don't know who you think you are, but I assure you
      that-Potter." The last part was said very flat and emotionless.
      Honestly, it was almost like Lucius had finally figured out the
      scandal Harry had caused for his family. Still, the fact that
      Lucius hadn't so much as twitched for his wand made him somewhat
      doubt that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter?" Fudge peered closely at Harry. "As in <em class="calibre8">Harry
      Potter</em>? I could have sworn you were Dra-" he trailed off as he
      glanced at his number one campaign contributor. "Er, never
      mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why does everyone keep doing that?" Lucius asked idly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you guys have a point in being here?" Harry asked, not so
      much because he wanted to know or get the conversation moving but
      because he fully appreciated how easily people could get
      sidetracked and knew no one else would be rude enough to bring them
      back to the matter at hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius threw him an annoyed glance, because Fudge was far too
      inclined to kiss his ass to do so himself. "Of course there is.
      We're here to stop the attacks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What attacks? I haven't heard anything about any attacks. Did
      you guys here anything?" Harry turned to his friends.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Ron said immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a thing," Neville concurred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was anyone hurt?" Hermione asked, rather than outright lying to
      an authority figure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fudge looked a little embarrassed. "Well…no. But basilisks are
      Serious Business."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So they are," Harry agreed, looking appropriately puzzled.
      "What attacks are you talking about, sir?" God, calling Fudge 'sir'
      was bloody <strong class="calibre9">nauseating</strong>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is a basilisk running loose in this school and you all
      are covering it up," Lucius accused, sounding impatient.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why on Earth would we do that, Lucius?" Dumbledore spoke up.
      "As Cornelius said, basilisks are very dangerous and if something
      was going around killing or – at the very least – petrifying
      students, how could we possibly hide that? We're not monitoring
      communications and you can ask some of the students if you require
      further reassurance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As much faith as we have in you, Dumbledore," Lucius said,
      looking for all the world as if those words pained him to say, "my
      son, who has my complete confidence, has insisted that-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure he has," Harry interrupted. "But if that were true,
      then why hasn't anybody else said anything? Or do you honestly
      think that people are more afraid of 'getting in trouble' for
      telling than of a giant bloody snake?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you calling my son a liar?" Lucius demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Harry replied, shocked. He never was one to be
      the pot calling the kettle black, after all. "In fact, Draco's a
      friend of mine. I'm the one who gave him that advice about illegal
      search and seizure, you know. But I would also like to point out
      that Draco is also claiming to be the Heir of Slytherin, so perhaps
      <em class="calibre8">that's</em> why he's talking about a basilisk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My son wouldn't-" Lucius began, angrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Malfoy?" Ron waited until Lucius looked over at him. "Your
      son is twelve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius flushed angrily and Ron looked quite pleased of
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Regardless of the, er, validity of these claims," Fudge, who
      was looking disappointed at the turn of events that didn't appear
      to being leading to him getting to arrest Hagrid and making Lucius
      happy, began. "The fact remains that claims have been made, and
      from a reliable source from a good family. Therefore,
      investigations must be made."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By all means," Dumbledore said magnanimously. "Would you care
      to accompany us, Hagrid? I think it's time the four of you got back
      to your Common Room anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The eight of them made their way back to the castle in a variety
      of spirits. Hagrid was jumpy, as if Fudge might arrest him at any
      moment. Hermione was in awe of meeting the most powerful (at least
      nominally) wizard in Britain. Ron was still pleased he had gotten
      the best of the father of his mortal enemy. Lucius was glowering at
      everyone but Neville and Hermione – Neville because he was from a
      nice, respectable Pureblood family and Hermione because he honestly
      had no idea who she was or why he should hate her. Fudge was
      looking unsettled as he was begining to realize that he was caught
      in the middle of a power struggle between two of the wizards he
      depended upon the most. Neville looked like he'd rather be doing
      something less dramatic and Harry was staring up at the stars and
      trying to do some last-minute studying for that Astronomy test he
      was going to have at Midnight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, almost the second they stepped foot into the Castle,
      Miss Amaretto – Filch's reasoning behind naming his new cat after
      an Italian liquor was beyond Harry's comprehension – spotted them
      and, sure enough, Filch quickly accosted them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There you are," he growled at Harry. "Everyone's been looking
      for you. There's been another one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Another…what, exactly?" Lucius asked, looking disdainfully at
      the Squib caretaker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clearly remembering and disliking Lucius from his own days as a
      student, Filch took a moment before answering. "Another pair of
      students hexing each other in the hallway. Said they were after a
      rogue pixie."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hogwarts being what it was, no one bothered to question what a
      rogue pixie would be doing there or why students felt the need to
      curse it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filch turned to Harry. "They're asking for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded solemnly. "Right. I have to go help them spin this
      so they don't look like morons at breakfast tomorrow when the whole
      school's heard about it." With that, he took off running down the
      hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wipe your feet!" Filch called after him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be careful running in the hallways," Dumbledore added
      mildly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, we should probably go to the Hospital Wing, too," Fudge
      suggested as Harry exited hearing range.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quickly arriving at the Hospital Wing, Harry automatically
      pulled out two Polyjuice Potions and thrust them into Madam
      Pomfrey's outstretched hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey stared at them inquisitively. "Is this…Polyjuice
      Potion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, maybe?" he replied he caught his breath. "Here," he said,
      reaching into his pocket and pulling out two vials of Mandrake
      Draught (apparently it was Mandrake Draught and not Mandrake
      Potion. Who knew? Well, other than Neville and Hermione, who had
      given him a fifteen-minute lecture on the subject) this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why were you even carrying Polyjuice Potion around with you
      anyway?" Madam Pomfrey asked suspiciously. "And is it even legal
      here at Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm pretty sure that nobody bothered to ban it due to its
      expense, difficulty in making, and overall rarity. But never mind
      that: who got petrified this time?" he asked, deliberately changing
      the subject.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco Malfoy and Cedric Diggory," came the terse response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "Now that is too funny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey raised an eyebrow at him. "How is that funny? I
      thought both of these boys were friends of yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, they are," Harry agreed. "That's not what's funny. What's
      funny is…well, first off, what were they even doing together in the
      first place? I wasn't even aware that they knew each other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure I don't know," answered the nurse dryly. "They were
      POA."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"POA?" Harry repeated. The only thing he could think of that
      those three letters could mean was 'Prisoner of Azkaban' but he
      somehow doubted that was the case here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 'Petrified on Arrival'," she explained with a slight
      smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. And what I was saying was that Draco's father and
      Minister Fudge are here in the castle this very moment looking for
      evidence to back up Draco's claims that people are getting
      petrified left and right and Draco chooses now to go and get
      himself petrified."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I'm sure that's exactly what he was planning when he
      got attacked," Madam Pomfrey said sarcastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Hey, you never know. Fortunately, the Mandrake
      Draught is going to take effect any second now…right?" he asked as
      he heard footsteps outside the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey glanced worriedly at her patients. "It
      should."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as the door to the Hospital Wing swung open, Draco and
      Cedric were blinking sleepily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad?" Draco asked confused. He quickly realized that there were
      other people in the room. At some point, however, Harry's friends
      had clearly been sent back to the Common Room. "I mean, Father?
      What are you doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think the more appropriate question is: What are you doing
      here?" Lucius asked, a little concern inadvertently slipping into
      his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was…I was…" Draco paused, trying to remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pixie," Harry coughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric, thankfully, got Harry's meaning instantly. "We were
      comparing Seeker strategies in the hallway when all of a sudden
      this little blue Pixie comes out of nowhere and starts attacking
      us. Neither of us could think of a Pixie banishing charm off the
      top of our heads so we tried to freeze it, but it kept moving so we
      missed and hit each other," he told them, sounding very responsible
      and convincing. No wonder he was a Prefect. Was he Head Boy as
      well? Harry couldn't remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that true, Draco?" Lucius turned a critical eye to his
      son.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still looking a bit out of it, Draco looked from his father to
      Harry indecisively. "I…yes," he finally said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are these two your only patients, Madam Pomfrey?" Dumbledore
      asked polite as ever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aside from a fourth year who managed to turn her ears into
      carrots, yes, they are," the nurse confirmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't mind if we make sure of that, do you?" Fudge asked,
      walking further into the room. He soon found his path blocked by an
      irate school nurse, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minister, I hope you're not suggesting that you think I am
      <em class="calibre8">hiding</em> patients," she began heatedly, advancing on him
      menacingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I-" Fudge tried to defend himself, but she was having none
      of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, if I was going to hide them, it certainly wouldn't
      be in the Hospital Wing, now would it? Why don't you go check for
      them in a broom closet? Or on the roof?" she suggested icily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe you, I believe you," Fudge insisted, quickly
      retreating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," she said. "Now, if you don't mind, you're
      disturbing my patients."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, they had no choice but to leave. Faced with
      absolutely no evidence of petrifaction or really anything out of
      the ordinary going on (save, perhaps, the freakishly empty Hospital
      Wing), Fudge and Lucius were forced to leave as well, extremely
      embarrassed for making so much commotion over something that
      everyone else was pretending wasn't happening. Harry idly wondered
      what would happen when the truth came out – and it would come out,
      as per his deal with Lockhart – but realized that as a Second Year,
      it really didn't matter to him one way or the other what happened
      or how it looked for the school because he was technically too
      young to be expected to deal with that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As a second year, it was fully understandable why he started
      screaming the minute Hagrid slipped them that cryptic 'Follow the
      Spiders' advice that would never, ever lead to anything good. It
      was actually a good thing that Lucius and Fudge had already left.
      After all, it wouldn't due to get people questioning his sanity any
      sooner than they had to.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dear Merlin, this basilisk is a menace!" Draco was heard
      complaining during their next Potions class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does that mean that you've renounced your evil ways as Heir of
      Slytherin?" Harry asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shot him a withering look. "That isn't funny, Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I know it isn't," Harry said, trying to placate him as
      Draco only ever called him Potter when he was <em class="calibre8">really</em>
      annoyed. "It's just that, half the class genuinely believes you to
      be the Heir of Slytherin and therefore really want an answer to
      that question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stared at Harry. "You're serious?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm Harry," Harry said before he could stop himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked at him quizzically. "What-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never mind, moral obligation, you wouldn't understand," Harry
      said dismissively. "So, once and for all, since you totally got
      petrified: Are you or are you not the Heir of Slytherin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Having been subject to Harry's 'no you ARE' or 'no you AREN'T'
      line of questioning that he got from the movie "Clue", Draco wisely
      chose to reply in a fuller manner. "I am not the Heir of
      Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If Harry can still be the Heir even when he has an alibi, then
      surely Malfoy can have the basilisk attack himself," Ron
      objected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, shut up," Hermione elbowed Ron hard; she obviously
      understood how pointing out that Harry could still technically be
      the Heir was not, under any circumstances, a good plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do we have here?" Snape asked silkily, coming up behind
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are arguing about whether or not Malfoy's being petrified
      rules him out as Heir of Slytherin and if Harry having an alibi
      could still make him a candidate after all," Neville supplied
      helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Snape's lip curled mockingly. "And after the Minister
      of Magic himself came down to investigate those nasty rumors about
      a basilisk loose in the school and was assured that they were, in
      fact, nothing more than nasty rumors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we both know that neither one of us is the Heir, so our
      argument is really more for the sake of the rumor mill anyway,"
      Harry offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why aren't you working, Potter?" Snape demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I can't multi-task to save my life when it comes to
      Potions. I swear, I look up for a second and something explodes."
      Harry paused and tilted his head. "Of course, that could be because
      the Slytherins keep throwing things in my cauldron to test if I'm
      'worthy of associating with them' by surviving their periodic
      murder attempts. Seems kind of strange to me, but then, what do I
      know? I'm not a Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you could have been," Snape muttered absently as he moved
      down the line to check someone else's cauldron. "Oh, you could have
      been."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: God, I hate writing Madam Pomfrey. In addition to wanting
      to spell her name with a 'ph' instead of an 'f', I also keep adding
      an 'e' to the end of Madam. Very annoying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
