<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 24, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 24</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre10">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre10">Note: Okay, last chapter there was some confusion
      about why Draco was willing to lie to his father when Lucius was
      only at Hogwarts on Draco's information. Draco didn't actually tell
      Lucius anything; Lucius knew that there <em class="calibre8">should</em> be attacks
      going on since he slipped Ginny the Diary and has no idea why he
      hasn't heard anything about them. He knew that the Diary would open
      the Chamber of Secrets but didn't know that the monster was a
      basilisk until Harry mentioned it in Hagrid's hut. Draco was
      willing to lie to his father because he knew that there wasn't any
      proof of the Cfhamber opening and even if they were willing to wait
      around for another attack, Harry and co. could just cover it up,
      like they did with him and Cedric. As a Slytherin, Draco realizes
      that if he came clean, he would be the only one who would and so
      his testimony wouldn't be enough to go on (particularly as he kept
      claiming to be the Heir himself) and everyone would be mad at him
      for getting the Ministry involved in Hogwarts, as nothing good ever
      comes from their interference. Ever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A week before finals, Pettigrew was still on the loose, annoying
      everyone greatly by having petrified everyone at least once (except
      Harry, who he seemed to be avoiding) and occasionally leaving
      graffiti messages around the school, warning people about the
      'Heir'. These messages only served to irritate Filch, however,
      which in turn served to irritate everyone else because, really, who
      likes a cantankerous caretaker on the warpath? And Filch certainly
      seemed to take every painted message as a personal affront.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was just on his way back from another grueling session of
      refusing to study for finals like everyone else and was feeling
      quite pleased that he'd managed to run away from the library the
      minute Hermione's back was turned. He glanced at the wall idly as
      he noticed there was a new message and then froze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Their skeletons will lie in the Chamber forever</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their? As in, more than one person he'd have to go rescue now?
      Harry groaned. He hated multi-people rescues. After all, the more
      people the more complaints he got for not doing it heroically
      enough and the more suspicions about how he somehow knew exactly
      what to do. Fortunately, he appeared to be the first one to have
      seen this new threat, or one of the first, anyway, as a lockdown
      hadn't been initiated yet. That gave him a little time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He headed immediately to Lockhart's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor, do you still have that rooster I sto-er,
      <em class="calibre8">borrowed</em> from Hagrid?" Harry demanded, barging right in
      and hoping Lockhart didn't have company.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, Lockhart was alone. "Of course I do; you said it
      would allow us to slay the basilisk without actually risking our
      lives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Without unduly risking our lives," Harry corrected. "We are
      still dealing with a basilisk here and that is always very
      dangerous. On the other hand, we've lasted seven months with it
      running around and petrifying people every time we turn around, so
      we should be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart nodded. "I've been petrified four times already; what's
      one more?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly," Harry agreed. "Now, apparently at least two people
      have been taken down to the Chamber, possibly more. This means that
      that stupid Diary will also be down there and the students were
      taken hostage to lure me down there. I seem to have a reputation as
      a saving-people person," he explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't say," Lockhart said dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, no matter what happens down there, I need you to stick to
      the plan. Things are probably going to get a little weird and
      chances are the perpetrator is really crazy. Just act like you know
      what you're doing, let me taunt them a little, and then the minute
      it looks like the basilisk is going to make an appearance, get the
      rooster to crow. I can take care of everything else," Harry said,
      pulling out his Invisibility Cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This looks valuable," Lockhart said, fingering the material
      longingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is," Harry said grimly. "It's also an heirloom, so don't
      even think about it. Besides, I have two dozen people who can vouch
      that I do, in fact, own this and I'm not telling you who, so you
      wouldn't be able to get them all. Now get under it so we can
      go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine…" Lockhart sighed, looking disappointed but doing as Harry
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They silently proceeded to Myrtle's bathroom and pointedly
      ignored Dumbledore's announcement that everyone was to return to
      their Common Rooms. Once they had arrived, Harry went straight to
      the sinks to search for the serpent scratched on the surface of one
      of them while Lockhart talking Myrtle into letting him autograph
      her stall. Harry was really starting to wonder if it was actually
      possible for his vain professor to go longer than twenty minutes
      without feeling the need to sign something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, I found it," Harry called out. "<em class="calibre8">Open</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart came over and peered into the darkness uncertainly.
      "Please tell me you can make stairs appear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could I possibly make stairs appear?" Harry asked
      logically. "I don't have a bloody manual, you know. Besides, if
      there were stairs to be had, why in the world wouldn't they be here
      already? The fact you need to speak Parseltongue to get this far
      should mean that Slytherin wouldn't bother to make the stairs only
      appear if you ask for them. He's <strong class="calibre9">supposed</strong> to be
      more sensible than Gryffindor, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you say so…But really, what's down there? We have no way of
      knowing how far down it is and it's probably filthy." Lockhart
      wrinkled his nose at the thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. Seriously, they had bigger problems than
      sanitation right now. Like the two-possibly-more hostages down in
      the Chamber with Pettigrew and Voldemort's Horcrux. "Tell you
      what," he said finally. "You jump down and I'll cast a cushioning
      charm to soften the fall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That won't help with whatever dirt or grime that has got to be
      down there after a thousand years or so," Lockhart pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that's the best you're going to get, so I suggest you take
      it," Harry growled. God, this was taking longer than just
      threatening him, as he and Ron had done last time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I have to look my best for when we're done with this and
      return triumphantly to Dumbledore and the Media," Lockhart
      protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The grime will add authenticity," Harry shot back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just go," Harry said, shoving him down into the darkness and
      casting a quick cushioning charm, like he promised. "That does
      remind me, though." He took out his mirror. "Oi, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Sirius asked. Harry could barely hear him as the sound
      of laughter and music was loud in the background.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-Where are you?" Harry asked, listening to the voices going on
      around his errant godfather. "I don't recognize the accents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's because I'm in Vegas," Sirius explained as if it were
      obvious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vegas? You're in America?" Harry sputtered. "What are you doing
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gambling," Sirius said patiently. "Well, that and…but you're
      really too young for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm twenty-four," Harry said irritably, crossing his arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly, far too young," Sirius agreed. "I, however, am
      thirty-seven, since we seem to be counting both timelines, and
      that's plenty old enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius, you…you know what, never mind," Harry said, shaking his
      head. "Listen, I need you to send a message to the Daily Prophet
      that two students were taken to the Chamber of Secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius blinked. "Any particular reason?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean other than the fact that fact that at least two
      students <strong class="calibre9">were</strong> taken to the Chamber of Secrets?"
      Harry asked innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Frankly, yes. You've been working all year to keep this quiet,
      remember? Why do you want to blow all that now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because everything is coming to a head and I want proof when I
      capture Pettigrew," Harry told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think you'll manage that?" Sirius asked, trying not to
      sound too hopeful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd better," Harry said fiercely. "But listen, I've got to go.
      I left Lockhart alone down there and if I don't hurry up he'll
      probably wander off, somehow manage to annoy Voldemort's Horcrux,
      and get himself killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just so we're clear: that would be a bad thing?" Sirius asked
      innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it would be; a death on my watch would be a huge blow
      for my reputation as resident hero!" Harry exclaimed. "Bye." Harry
      turned around to see Myrtle staring at him. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have issues," she told him seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes as he took out his Nimbus 2000 and
      unshrunk it. Maybe it wasn't technically <span>fair</span> that he
      made Lockhart jump down when he had a broom the whole time, but
      really, Lockhart really should have been more prepared. Not to
      mention that Harry wasn't sure that Lockhart even COULD fly. After
      all, if he could, then he probably would carry a broom around with
      him at all times just so he could escape any situation if need be,
      seeing as how he was a dreadful coward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry landed besides Lockhart, the professor was dusting
      his robes off and trying vainly to look presentable. "You had a
      BROOM the whole time?" At Harry's nod, he shot Harry a murderous
      look and started off down the tunnel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry offered half-heartedly as he ran to catch up with
      him. "Lumos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When they finally reached the main Chamber, a very different
      sight greeted them than last time. Instead of Ginny lying on the
      floor by the statue of Slytherin, Pettigrew lay prone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think there's any point in stunning him?" Harry wondered
      aloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really don't think you need to bother," Lockhart said,
      peering over at Pettigrew. "He doesn't look like he's going to be
      going anywhere anytime soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I guess so," Harry agreed reluctantly. "On the other
      hand, he is insanely good at evading capture."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow, he can elude a preteen, he must be a criminal mastermind,"
      Lockhart muttered, still obviously sore about Harry letting him get
      dirty when he technically didn't need to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I only had the one broom," Harry said defensively.
      "And it's not like I even knew that today would be the day until I
      saw the writing on the wall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart studiously pretended not to hear him, deciding instead
      to risk entering the room further.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's head shot in the direction of the voice. "Ginny? What
      are you doing here? Oh, hi Luna." Somehow it was less jarring to
      see Luna in the Chamber than Ginny, although Harry wasn't sure if
      that was because of Luna's penchant for getting into strange
      situations or because the odds of Ginny getting taken down to the
      Chamber AGAIN was astronomically small.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were just on our way back from visiting the Thestrals when a
      short bald man ambushed us, muttering something about how he's
      getting too old for this and felt vaguely like a pervert for
      kidnapping two young girls and then I think he stunned us because
      we just woke up a couple of minutes ago," Luna explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the record, I am never going to go visit the Thestrals with
      you ever again," Ginny said decisively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's hardly fair," Luna objected. "He seemed to be waiting
      for you and took me just because I was there; if anything I should
      be the one who doesn't want to spend time with you anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not because of the kidnapping, Luna," Ginny sighed. "It's
      just that I can't actually see your creepy zombie horses and so
      going there and watching you pet them and feed them raw steak and
      seeing it get ripped apart by creatures I can't see is just kind of
      weird and not really my thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Luna paused for a second. "You could always watch somebody
      die," she suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna!" Ginny exclaimed scandalized. "I can't do that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Luna asked reasonably. "Just go to St. Mungo's and
      ask them for help. People are always dying there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not a very good recommendation for a magical hospital,"
      Harry interjected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna just shrugged. "The more you know about magic, the less you
      tend to know about medicine, so it's great for injuries, but if you
      ever have any illnesses - particularly Muggle ones – you're out of
      luck. But of course, the more you know about magic, the less you
      tend to respect Muggle treatments."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is really depressing," Harry said flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another shrug. "It's the atmosphere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He won't wake," said a soft voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over to see Lockhart nudging Pettigrew gingerly
      with his foot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't really care if he wakes up; I just need him alive,"
      Harry replied. "Come to think of it, I don't even need him alive,
      do I? I just need him nice and unexploded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fairly sure he's still alive," Lockhart called out
      helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, he is," Tom Riddle agreed. "For now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why in the world are you killing the one guy stupid enough to
      follow you even when you're nothing but a disembodied spirit? And
      you're not even that, are you? You're just a Diary filled with
      plenty of teenage angst."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle glared at Harry but didn't respond, instead twirling
      Lockhart's wand between his fingers. Why in the world had Lockhart
      set that down? This was going to make it harder. Although, on the
      bright side, it wasn't a compatible wand so Riddle wouldn't be able
      to use it as effectively as he'd used Harry's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do hope you plan on taking me seriously, Harry Potter,"
      Riddle said. "Wormtail told me you don't do that often, but I've
      waited a long time for this, for the chance to see you, speak to
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you want to know how I survived the Killing Curse, the
      answer is 'none of your business'," Harry replied politely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think you quite understand," Riddle said slowly. "I
      <strong class="calibre9">am</strong> going to kill you. That is inevitable and
      nothing you can do will change that. Wormtail will also die. I need
      his life-force to bring myself into reality. Those two young girls,
      however, don't have to die. I will kill them, though, and slowly,
      if you do not give me the information I need."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're planning on killing me anyway, then what's it matter
      how I survived the Killing Curse? Just use a different spell,"
      Harry suggested, eyeing the wand in Riddle's hand warily and
      wondering if perhaps it wasn't the best idea to goad Voldemort's
      young self to kill him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any idea how <em class="calibre8">boring</em> it was, having to
      listen to the silly little troubles of such a silly little man?
      He'd been writing in the Diary for months, telling me all his
      pitiful worries and woes: how Sirius Black escaped from Azkaban and
      was going to kill him, how he might convince Remus Lupin of the
      truth about what happened to the Potters, how he couldn't even
      reveal himself to be alive without proving a traitor, how every one
      of my follower's would see him dead leading to my downfall, how no
      matter what he tried, he just couldn't get that basilisk to kill
      someone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm sorry you were <span>bored</span>," Harry deadpanned.
      "Though, seriously, if that's the worse inconvenience you had,
      you're pretty lucky. Last year, you had to put up with
      <strong class="calibre9">stuttering</strong>. All year. I swear, it was giving
      <em class="calibre8">me</em> migraines and I only ever saw Quirrell during class."
      He paused. "The headaches might have actually had something to do
      with the face you were on the back of his head, but let's not
      quibble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why won't you take me seriously?" Riddle demanded, wand-arm
      twitching.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you're a bastion of teenage angst," Harry said simply.
      "I already said that. On the other hand, a basilisk, now THAT'S
      serious. I might even go so far as to say it is frightening. Of
      course, if you're not going to summon it and just want to have a
      nice chat, then I can work with that, too. It will involve a lot
      more sarcasm and questioning just how badass a person is if they
      write in a Diary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I become the most feared wizard of all time!" Riddle retorted.
      "And I'm a bloody mass murderer!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll give you the mass murderer thing," Harry said. "But the
      whole effect is ruined by the fact that you keep a Diary. I mean,
      honestly, what's with that? It's like '<em class="calibre8">Dear Diary, today I went
      and slaughtered an entire village of Muggles. Aren't I diabolical?
      And no, I am in no way compensating for the fact that my father
      abandoned my mother before I was born. And no, said father was not
      a Muggle, where are these dreadful accusations coming from? They
      are distinctly <span>not</span> fabulous.</em>'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop that," Riddle ordered, his face red with fury.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And as for the whole 'most feared wizard of all time' thing,
      there's just no way. I mean, seriously. You may terrify everyone
      now, but that's just a generational thing. Before you, everyone was
      scared of Grindelwald and God knows there were countless before
      him. And everyone knows Dumbledore is more well-respected than you
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was <em class="calibre8">going</em> to let your little girlfriends live,
      Potter, but you've pushed me too far. <em class="calibre8">Speak to me, Slytherin,
      greatest of the Hogwarts Four</em>," Riddle hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow, he had a huge ego. I wonder if he had to say that when he
      was visiting the Chamber," Harry mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it time, yet?" Lockhart whispered, coming to stand beside
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Almost," Harry said quietly. "Close your eyes and I'll tell you
      when. Hey, Luna, Ginny, you guys better close your eyes, too. Even
      if you only get petrified, now's really not the best time for
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waited until he heard Riddle his, "<em class="calibre8">Kill them. Kill
      them all</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," he breathed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few moments later, he heard unmistakable sound of a rooster
      crowing and a loud thump as something heavy hit the floor. Harry
      chanced a look through his mirror and saw that the basilisk was
      dead. Fortunately, its eyes were also closed, so Harry wasn't even
      petrified. Did basilisks eyes kill and/or petrify when they were
      dead? Harry was glad he didn't have to find out. And come to think
      of it, why in the world was meeting a basilisk's gaze such a
      dangerous thing to do in the first place? He'd have to remember to
      ask Hermione. Or, if she didn't know, Dumbledore. Or maybe Hagrid.
      Surely someone, somewhere, would have an answer for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">NO!</em>" Riddle cried, interrupting his musing, and, for
      some reason, still speaking in Parseltongue. "<em class="calibre8">You will pay for
      this, you-</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh give it up, already," Harry said, annoyed. He turned to
      Lockhart. "Did you grab the Diary?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart nodded. "Of course," he said, handing it over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Harry beamed, putting on some dragon-hide gloves
      and feeling quite fortunate he had had Potions earlier that day.
      "Accio basilisk fang."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing?" Riddle demanded, abruptly switching over
      to English.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm destroying your Diary," Harry told him bluntly as he caught
      the fang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…you can't!" Riddle protested desperately, moving towards
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're too old for these things and given you're status as
      self-proclaimed 'scariest wizard ever', it's quite frankly
      embarrassing that you still have this. It's for your own good,
      really," Harry said mockingly as he drove the fang through the
      Diary.</p>
      <p class="calibre10">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
