<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 25, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s25" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 25</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: So Ginny finally has some lines, and all she can think of
      to do is complain about the rescue. At least she's not being
      starstruck anymore, though. Probably because Harry didn't live up
      to her ideas about a romantic hero very well in his rather
      anti-climatic battle scene. Also, it continues to amaze me how many
      people read about Hermione getting a copy of <span>Hogwarts: A
      History</span> for Christmas in Chapter Six and remember it enough
      to be confused when she tries to check it out in Chapter
      Fifteen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you guys okay?" Harry asked, turning to face his three
      companions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe so," Luna answered him, eyeing Ginny and Lockhart
      carefully. "But Norbert isn't." She bent down to pick up the
      Crumple-Horned Snorkack creature Harry had gotten her for Christmas
      and showed the stiff little pig-like creature to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it okay?" Harry asked, concerned. He didn't even want to
      think about how difficult replacing Norbert might be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna poked it experimentally. "I think it's just petrified. Do
      you have any Mandrake Draught with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did it get petrified?" Harry asked, reaching into his cloak
      and pull out a vial to hand to Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would guess that it looked into the mirror Ginny put on the
      floor," Luna said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why in the world did you put a mirror on the floor?" Harry
      questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny flushed. "Oh, well, I was worried I might be tempted to
      watch the heroic fight and I didn't want to get myself killed so I
      put my mirror down so if I accidentally saw the basilisk's eyes I'd
      be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, it's a sad day when getting petrified is widely
      regarded to be 'fine'…" Harry mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of, Norbert was fine and now he's even better," Luna
      exclaimed brightly, watching Norbert wake up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got to tell you, Luna, I was pretty surprised when you
      continued to print things about Crumple-Horned Snorkacks in the
      Quibbler now that everyone knows that they exist," Harry said
      conversationally, waiting for the Draught to take effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Daddy and I had a long conversation about that and we
      eventually came to the conclusion that even though we no longer
      need to fight for the Crumple-Horned Snorkack's right for people to
      know it exists, it is still a very recently discovered species that
      little is known about, so there's still a story there. Besides,
      Norbert's adorable and so we've made him our official mascot. A
      regular Quibbler success story about the power of the press
      overcoming wide-spread ignorance, if you will," Luna explained
      proudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good for you, Luna," Harry said, genuinely happy for her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Ginny continued, completely ignoring the discussion
      about Norbert. "That was before I knew that the 'heroic fight'
      would basically just consist of you guys cheating and using a
      rooster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Lockhart began heatedly. "To the best of my knowledge,
      there aren't any 'rules' for killing basilisks. And even if there
      were, you should just be grateful that we saved you and not
      disappointed that we didn't fulfill your preteen fantasies of
      heroic behavior."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny rolled her eyes. "Of <em class="calibre8">course</em> Harry saved us; Harry
      always saves everyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart looked over at Harry approvingly. "That whole being
      personally called upon every time anyone was petrified all year
      thing really worked out well for you, didn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When that guy kidnapped us, I thought 'well this sucks, but at
      least now I'll have a great story to tell people after Harry
      rescues me' but <strong class="calibre9">nooooooo</strong>. My story will have to be
      'Harry heroically let the basilisk get within 200 feet of him and
      then sicked a rooster on it, killing it instantly,'" Ginny huffed,
      clearly very put out that nothing good was coming out of her
      kidnapping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Lockhart exchanged glances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <span>do</span> know that that's not what we're going to
      tell people, right?" Harry asked hesitantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny blinked at him. "But…that's what happened," she said, as
      if that had anything to do with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For now," Lockhart agreed. "But really, stories like that just
      don't sell books. We'll need to come up with something else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to be writing a book on this?" Ginny asked,
      disbelief evident in her voice. "But…nothing happened!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the contrary, we killed a basilisk," Harry corrected. "We
      just didn't do it in a very exciting way. You know what would be
      exciting, though? Professor Lockhart managing to gouge out the
      basilisk's eyes before it bit him in the shoulder and I took
      advantage of the distraction to heroically slay the basilisk with
      the sword of Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's not what happened!" Ginny really seemed stuck on
      this one point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But there's really no proof one way or another," Lockhart
      pointed out. "We'll have to stab the eyes of the basilisk so that
      it lines up with Harry's version, but that would only marginally
      diminish the value and it would make handling it safer anyway, so I
      think we should stick with Harry's version as it portrays us both
      in a good light. Granted, I would rather be the one slaying the
      basilisk, but letting a minor and a student of mine get bitten by a
      basilisk and serve as a distraction would be highly irresponsible
      and hurt my reputation accordingly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If either one of you got bitten by the basilisk, then why are
      you still alive? They are highly poisonous after all. And there's
      no mark whatsoever!" Ginny pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "Obviously, we healed him with the vial
      of phoenix tears I've always kept with me ever since learning of
      the basilisk's existence." He paused, considering. "She does have a
      point about that lack of a mark, though. Diffindo!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Lockhart protested as his left sleeve fell off. "These
      are good robes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They've also been exposed to all of the grime from a millennia
      of no one cleaning anything down here, remember?" Harry asked,
      waving his wand and vanishing the sleeve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose…" Lockhart sighed. "The sacrifices I make, I
      swear…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sacrifices?" Ginny sputtered. "It's a sleeve! And you don't
      have even have the Sword of Gryffindor, so how are you going to
      explain that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Harry told her, annoyed. "You sound a lot like
      Hermione right now. And don't worry; I filched the Sword from
      Dumbledore's office months ago." He pulled the miniature Sword out
      of his pocket, unshrunk it, and then cut through the basilisk's
      mouth to both infuse the sword with basilisk venom and to make it
      look like that caused the death in case it should ever come up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But how are you going to explain how you got the Sword in the
      first place?" Ginny demanded. "Unless you're admitting to
      robbery?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked shocked. "Of course not; that'd be bad for my
      image. I'm going to say the Sorting Hat gave it to me in my time of
      need. Things like that have happened before with the Sorting Hat
      providing what people need in a time of crisis, so Dumbledore
      should buy that." Harry held up his hand to forestall her next
      question. "And before you ask, I gave Peeves three cases of
      Dungbombs earlier this year with the understanding that he would
      get six more if he would take the Sorting Hat the minute he heard
      that there would be a lockdown and get it to me as soon as
      possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny paled. "Are you <em class="calibre8">really</em> sure it's a good idea to
      enable him like that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Eh, what do I care? He likes me. Calls me a
      'good force of chaos' and whatnot. Besides, it's the only way I
      could possibly get the Sorting Hat without its absence being
      noticed too far in advance or its presence being noticed while I'm
      supposed to have it down here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How are you going to explain how you got the Hat, then?" Ginny
      was running out of questions and for that Harry was grateful. He
      had already worked out all the details weeks ago and was starting
      to regret (just a little, of course) that he had refused Lockhart's
      suggestion of simply Obliviating her and claiming that she had been
      unconscious the whole time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fawkes, Dumbledore's phoenix that he can't possibly have kept
      an eye on this entire time, brought it to me for showing great
      loyalty to Dumbledore down here," Harry said smoothly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the kind of thing that he'd eat up," Harry explained. "So
      how about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny looked torn. It was a much better story, but the Weasley's
      had raised her to be reasonably honest so she wasn't sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart put his hand on Harry's shoulder. "Let me handle this.
      Five percent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny looked startled. "Pardon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll give you five percent of the profit we're making for
      selling the basilisk parts," Lockhart elaborated. He glanced over
      at Luna. "That goes for you, too, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh goody," Luna said. "Just think of the funding for future
      rare creature hunting expeditions!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, er, right then," Lockhart looked a little thrown. "So
      what do you think, Miss Weasley?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure Professor Dumbledore would let you sell the
      basilisk? It is technically Hogwarts property, after all," she
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since Voldemort and I are the only two British Parselmouths
      right now, he won't be able to get into the Chamber and if he tries
      to use me to get in so he can use the Basilisk, I'll refuse, citing
      trauma. Besides, Professor Lockhart already made arrangements for
      this to be taken care of, so all we need to do is send the dead
      basilisk to his preserver, as such," and Harry waved his wand and
      the basilisk body disappeared accordingly, "and there, completely
      out of Hogwarts grounds and good luck proving where we got it
      from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right…" Ginny agreed reluctantly. "But only if you don't
      tell my parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Lockhart asked. "There's nothing technically illegal
      about giving you a share of the profits, even though we're
      basically bribing you, because we can claim it's because you were
      here when we got rid of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If my parents know, they'll make me put it in the bank and
      won't let me touch it until I'm seventeen," Ginny explained. "I'm
      not saying I want to spend all of it now, but a little spending
      money would be nice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We agree to your terms," Harry said quickly, before she could
      change her mind or ask for a bigger cut. "Luna?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm?" she looked up from where she was playing with Norbert on
      the floor. "Oh, that should be fine. It doesn't really matter if my
      father finds out, however. He's always believed in the Chamber of
      Secrets, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can imagine," Harry grinned. "Aren't you glad we're going
      with a much more heroic version of events, Ginny?" Not to mention a
      version that was almost identical to what had originally happened,
      so it wasn't even really lying all that much. Except for Lockhart's
      involvement, but that was kind of a giving where Lockhart was
      involved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How are we getting back up?" Luna asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "You know, I didn't really think of that. I GUESS
      we could walk back to where the entrance is and I could take turns
      flying people up with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you could do that then why did you push me down there
      instead of doing that in the first place?" Lockhart looked annoyed
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nostalgia," Harry said simply and refused to elaborate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were about to go when they heard moaning coming from near
      the statue. Harry could have kicked himself. He'd forgotten about
      Pettigrew! Again! God, Sirius was going to kill him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly sprinted towards Pettigrew and drew his wand,
      aiming to stun him. Pettigrew was faster, however, and turned into
      his animagus form. Harry narrowed his eyes. There was no way in
      <strong class="calibre9">hell</strong> he'd let Pettigrew get away now. After all,
      what was the point in coming back in time if you let Pettigrew get
      away to go revive Voldemort in the exact same way?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry dropped his wand and transformed into his own animagus
      form, ignoring the gasps from Lockhart and Ginny. He lunged at
      Pettigrew (thanking God that the rat hadn't gotten very far because
      there were a LOT of rats down here. Although how Pettigrew thought
      he'd be able to get out of the Chamber was beyond him. Maybe
      Lockhart had a point about the whole stairs thing. Either way,
      Pettigrew was no longer a Parselmouth and so he couldn't possibly
      be able to utilize any of that) and caught him in his mouth. He
      slithered over to towards his companions (for, of course, his
      animagus form was a snake) and observed their reactions. Ginny and
      Lockhart looked shell-shocked while Luna, naturally, appeared to be
      completely unfazed. That wasn't surprising. What <span>was</span>
      surprising was when she took out a jar, plucked Pettigrew from
      Harry's mouth, and placed in the jar before screwing the lid
      on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure that's going to hold him?" Harry asked once he'd
      transformed back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Other than the fact that if he tried to transform he'd cut
      himself on all the glass and very possibly kill himself, yes, my
      father made this jar animagus-proof in case I ever ran into one I
      didn't want to get away," Luna explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And…you carry that around with you everywhere?" Lockhart asked
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," she said serenely. "One never knows when one will
      run into an animagus one doesn't wish to escape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…that's convenient," Harry said, still a little
      confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Almost as convenient as you suddenly having a snake animagus
      form," Ginny countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved her suspicion off. "Oh, please, I've been an
      animagus for years now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're only a second-year, though," she protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What can I say? I'm very talented," Harry said modestly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny snorted. "Why didn't you tell anyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it's illegal to be an animagus when you're not of age,
      yet," Harry explained as if it were obvious. Which it was.
      Especially for someone whose dad worked in the Ministry. "Now, if
      that's all…" He looked to Ginny, clearly expecting her to find some
      other problem with what was going on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She just sighed, however. "Let's go, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Myrtle was a little depressed when they got back. Not only were
      they all still alive (although she was grateful once Harry pointed
      out that if he had become a ghost and hung out with her, she'd
      never get any peace from anyone ever due to Harry's mild
      attention-seeking tendencies) but Peeves had been tormenting her as
      he waited for Harry to get back to give him the Sorting Hat. When
      Harry handed over the promised six cases of Dungbombs, Ginny looked
      like the next few days were going to be more terrifying than her
      entire experience as Diary!Riddle's hostage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, Harry, Lockhart, Ginny, Luna, and the captured
      Pettigrew made their way up to Dumbledore's office where they found
      Dumbledore, Arthur and Molly Weasley, Xenophilius Lovegood, Minerva
      McGonagall, Severus Snape, Rita Skeeter, and a man that Harry could
      only assume was his godfather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're alive," Harry announced cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Ginny!" Molly exclaimed tearfully, pulling her daughter into
      a hug. "Are you okay? What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fine, mom," Ginny assured. "As to what happened…well, maybe
      I should let Harry and Professor Lockhart explain that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you have fun, Luna?" Xenophilius asked, after examining her
      for hidden wounds and finding none.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," Luna said. "I didn't much like getting kidnapped or
      Norbert getting petrified, but other than that the rescue was quite
      interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there a reason you felt the need to go running off on a
      suicidal rescue mission without informing a responsible adult,
      first?" Snape asked Harry in between sneering at Probably!Sirius,
      who he seemed to have taken an instant dislike to. Harry was sure
      Probably!Sirius was completely innocent in the matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did get a responsible adult," Harry said innocently.
      "Professor Lockhart is a Hogwarts Professor and surely Professor
      Dumbledore wouldn't have hired him if he didn't have complete faith
      in him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall coughed delicately but didn't say anything to
      contradict him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Mr. Malfoy, is it true that-" Rita Skeeter began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid you have me confused with someone else," Harry said
      apologetically. "I'm Harry Potter." He paused. "And yes, I did go
      down to the Chamber of Secrets."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It took twenty minutes before the room was quiet enough for
      Harry to tell the story of what went down (sticking to the version
      they had agreed upon and embellishing quite a bit) and Harry was
      pleased to note that Rita was using her Quick-Quote Quill so as to
      make everything even more over-the-top. And since Rita was, for
      some ungodly reason, a well-respected journalist, everyone would
      take her word that things went down like Harry claimed they
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about Peter?" was the first thing Probably!Sirius wanted
      to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced. "I…well, I kind of forgot about him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you <em class="calibre8">mean</em> you 'kind of' forgot about him?"
      Definitely!Sirius looked downright murderous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fortunately, he woke up before we could leave and then we
      caught him," Harry hastened to reassure him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you only caught him because of <strong class="calibre9">chance</strong>?"
      Sirius wasn't very happy about that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just be glad we caught him at all," Harry advised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean by you caught Peter?" Dumbledore asked. "Who
      is this 'Peter'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna answered before Harry could. "Peter Pettigrew, illegal rat
      animagus and secret Death Eater extraordinaire," she said, sounding
      quite like an auctioneer as she pulled out the jar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, good thinking, Luna," Xenophilius beamed with pride as he
      recognized the jar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna took off the lid and placed Pettigrew gingerly on the
      floor. Before he could make a break for it, Sirius had his wand out
      a shot a spell at him to force him to revert back to human
      form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peter Pettigrew?" McGonagall gasped, firmly identifying him for
      the somewhat skeptical Ginny. "But…you…and Black, he…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said you wanted to see me, Dumbledore?" Fudge asked,
      flinging open the door to Dumbledore's office and followed – for
      whatever reason – by Lucius Malfoy. "Peter Pettigrew? Didn't you
      blow up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As it happens, I did not call for you, Cornelius," Dumbledore
      said genially, taking this all in stride. "But it's a good thing
      you're here. We were just about to question Mr. Pettigrew about
      his…survival, shall we say? Severus? Would you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape nodded jerkily and moved towards the panicked Pettigrew to
      administer some Veritaserum.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…I wanted to tell you," Pettigrew said desperately. "About my
      being alive. But I was afraid. Sirius wanted me dead and I was, uh,
      very depressed after what happened with Lily and James that I just
      wanted to, er, lose myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you chose to be a rat?" Lucius asked incredulously. "Dear
      God, you really are an idiot, aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pettigrew opened his mouth to respond and Snape took that
      opportunity to force the drops of Veritaserum down his throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll handle this, if you don't mind, Cornelius?" Dumbledore
      asked politely. Seeing no objection, he continued, "What is your
      name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peter Pettigrew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why didn't you tell anyone you were alive?" Dumbledore
      began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was afraid," Pettigrew repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided this would probably take too long if the
      extraordinarily patient Dumbledore was left in charge of the
      interrogation and he just wanted to get clearing Sirius over with
      before his Polyjuice Potion ran out. "Did you kill those Muggles
      that died after Sirius confronted you about my parents'
      deaths?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone looked rather shocked at that. Well, except for Luna
      and her father who were never really shocked at anything and
      Lucius, who probably knew it all along.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you a Death Eater?" Harry quickly followed up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is Sirius a Death Eater?" Harry finished his questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, there you go," Harry said, crossing his arms. "So when
      will the pardon be done with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…Pardon?" Fudge asked, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, naturally," Harry nodded. "And I'd hurry up with that.
      Otherwise, when Rita writes that article and everyone hears how you
      refused to let a clearly innocent-" Snape snorted at this "- man
      go, the court of public opinion will string you up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…" Fudge looked lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will he hurry this up?" Sirius asked. "I am SO not in the
      mood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As the actress said to the bishop," Harry said immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked confused. "Um…okay…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just reminding you that we're British," Harry said cheerfully.
      "Seeing as how you've apparently forgotten."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius rolled his eyes. "Dear God, Harry, I went to Las Vegas, I
      didn't apply for citizenship." He smirked. "Although 'that's what
      she said' rolls off the tongue SO much better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, I'll do it," Fudge decided before Harry had the chance
      to hex his errant godfather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up. Dumbledore had apparently spent the last five
      minutes appealing to Fudge's public approval rating and even though
      Lucius looked furious, he seemed to have succeeded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just need to draw up the paperwork and-" Fudge began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Way ahead of you," Harry interrupted, pulling out an official
      pardon for Sirius he'd bribed several people to obtain. "Sign here,
      please. Oh, and you too, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Looking slightly bemused, Fudge did so. Looking incredibly
      amused and not at all concerned about how Harry had gotten ahold of
      the pardon in the first place, Dumbledore followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Freedom! At last!" Sirius cheered right as the Polyjuice Potion
      wore off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does everything always work out this conveniently for you?"
      Ginny asked incredulously as Fudge clutched his heart in shock and
      tried (and failed) not to look terrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty much, yeah," Harry affirmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius just looked disgusted before storming to the door, no
      doubt resolving to go look for a minion to support for Minister of
      Magic who was less influenced by Dumbledore. Harry thought he saw
      Dobby lurking outside the door and decided to take a chance and
      hope this worked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Mr. Malfoy," he called out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius spun to face him. "What?" he snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Catch," he said, pulling the dragon-hide gloves out of his
      pocket and throwing them at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius caught them an inch from his face and tossed them aside,
      wordlessly sneering at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched in amusement as Dobby dived halfway across the
      hallway to catch the gloves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's go, Dobby," Lucius commanded, continuing to stalk down
      the hallway without checking to see that Dobby was following him.
      Eventually, when Lucius tried to hit Dobby over the head with his
      cane to make himself feel better about how spectacularly poorly
      everything in the office went, he noticed Dobby hadn't moved. He
      was holding up Harry's probably-poisonous gloves like they were
      priceless treasures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master has given Dobby gloves," Dobby said in wonderment.
      "Master gave them to Dobby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that?" spat Lucius. "What did you say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby has got a pair of gloves," said Dobby in disbelief.
      "Master threw them, and Dobby caught them, and Dobby- Dobby is
      free."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy stood frozen, staring at the elf. Then he lunged
      at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've lost me my servant, boy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Dobby shouted, "You shall not harm Harry Potter!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a loud bang, and Mr. Malfoy was thrown backwards. He
      crashed down the stairs, three at a time, landing in a crumpled
      heap on the landing below.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He got up, his face livid, and pulled out his wand, but Dobby
      raised a long threatening finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You shall go now," he said fiercely, pointing down at Mr.
      Malfoy. "You shall not touch Harry Potter. You shall go now. And
      Dobby thought you should know that the reason people laugh when
      they think you're not looking is because they think that Bad Master
      Draco is not your son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy eyes burned with outrage, but Dobby gave him no
      choice. With a last, incensed stare at the pair of them, he swung
      his cloak around him and hurried out of sight, probably to ask
      Narcissa some very awkward questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't believe that after everything, Lucius finally
      managed to hear the rumors or that it was Dobby that finally told
      him. He would have done it ages ago, but he had promised Draco he
      wouldn't. Well, sort of promised. And besides, Harry knew it would
      mean more coming from Dobby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He headed back to Dumbledore's office where he heard Snape and
      Sirius arguing loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You tried to kill me!" Sirius was yelling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were at war!" Snape defended himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It looked pretty personal to me," Sirius countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You proved you're a bloodthirsty killer when you were sixteen!"
      Snape snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Molly and Arthur looked disturbed at that and Sirius quickly
      said, "It wasn't that bad, really. And besides, you have GOT to
      learn to let these things go. Carrying around a decade's worth of
      resentment cannot possibly be good for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. <em class="calibre8">Hypocrite</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
