<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 5, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Lacking a large extended family myself, I see the term 'X
      cousins' and can only fit them with my frame of reference for
      cousins (all first). I know that once you get to a certain point
      you're not even related but it's the <em class="calibre8">calling</em> of someone
      your family and wanting to be with them that I can't wrap my head
      around. I know other people believe differently, that's just why my
      personal stance is 'if you know how closely related you are to
      someone you are too closely related to date.' Because in my case
      that would be, at the most distant, second cousins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That night passed quite peacefully as Draco wasn't actively
      trying to get Harry expelled and Harry didn't see any particular
      reason to go and wander about discovering what he already knew
      about the Philosopher's Stone. Of course, that might make it harder
      to explain to Ron and Hermione why he felt the need to go to the
      corridor on the third floor that Dumbledore had mentioned involved
      dying a horrible, painful death. Then again, he wasn't even sure if
      he should involve them. Last time, he hadn't had any choice because
      he wasn't capable of getting through there alone and his friends
      knew all about Voldemort and the stone anyway. This time, he was
      technically a legal adult and dragging two eleven-year-old children
      along with him to face Voldemort seemed highly irresponsible. Come
      to think of it, considering that Quirrell had no chance in hell of
      getting the stone from the mirror, did he even need to bother going
      down there? But if he didn't, would Quirrell return to teach the
      next year? While any teacher, even a possessed one, would be better
      than that pompous git Lockhart, having Voldemort at Hogwarts while
      his Horcrux was running around attacking people would probably be a
      very bad idea. Hm. He'd need to give this more thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His musings were interrupted by the arrival of the daily post.
      More specifically, by the two broom-shaped packages that required
      six owls each to lift. One broom went to Harry at the Gryffindor
      table, the other to Draco at the Slytherin. Harry raised his broom
      at Malfoy in a 'cheers' gesture, which the other boy returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly scanned the card. "It's a good thing that
      Professor McGonagall warned me not to open this broomstick-shaped
      package at the table. After all, something that is shaped exactly
      in the form of a broom can be so many, many things," Harry muttered
      sarcastically. "What, does she think I'm stupid or something? Or,
      more accurately, everyone else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron glanced over at the card to see what he was talking about.
      "A Nimbus Two Thousand!" Ron moaned. "I've never even touched
      one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well, at least now I know what to get him for
      Christmas</em>, Harry thought wryly. He wondered briefly why he
      hadn't thought to do so the first time around. Sure, first years
      couldn't have there own brooms at Hogwarts, but nobody actually
      listened to that anyway. And if Ron complained, as he was wont to
      do, about accepting charity, Harry could simply point to the
      Weasley sweater he hoped to receive. After all, Molly had sent it
      to him because Ron told her that he wasn't expecting any presents
      and if that wasn't charity, what was? Not that he minded; he'd have
      done anything for some charity in his early years, particularly
      when he was still at the Dursely's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After breakfast, Harry headed back to the Common Room alone as
      Ron had chosen to stay behind and confront Malfoy about the blatant
      favoritism (which really meant that Ron wished that the school
      would buy him his own broom) and was cornered by Hermione. "I
      suppose you think that this is a reward for breaking the
      rules?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I think that this is a reward for me being ridiculously
      good at Quidditch." Harry paused. "And because my parents were
      brutally murdered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You talk about that a lot," Hermione noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. "Yeah, so does everyone else. I'm just trying to
      keep up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still can't believe that you were <em class="calibre8">rewarded</em> for
      risking your life!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, his expression serious. "I know. I mean, they were
      never going to expel me for something like that, but at the very
      least I should have lost some points and gotten a detention. I
      realize that what I did was reckless, but you have to understand
      that Draco, despite his inability to hold his broom the right way,
      knows what he's doing. I'm apparently a prodigy, although I had no
      way of knowing that at the time but if I got hurt, it would have
      been my own fault and I would have taken responsibility for it. I
      guess what I don't really get is why it matters so much to
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why? Because you could have gotten seriously injured; what more
      reason do I need?" Hermione asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "Hermione, this is a magical school, and not a
      particularly safe one. People get grievously injured on an hourly
      basis. Horrible injuries are just something you're going to have to
      get used to and I think you know this. So what's the real
      reason?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think this has more to do with the fact that we broke the
      rules and you seem to hold them as sacred," Harry theorized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione reddened. "I do not! It's just that rules are put into
      place for our protection and as such we should follow them and not
      flaunt our disregard for them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is true," Harry acknowledged. "Sometimes, maybe even most
      times. But I won't follow pointless rules. If I feel that something
      has been put in place for my own protection, then yes, chances are
      I'll follow it. No promises, though. And I won't purposely endanger
      any fellow students. Occasionally, I may do something stupid like
      this. I probably shouldn't, but then again, I'm eleven."
      Technically. "You've got to cut me some slack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I can…if you really mean it about being more
      careful," Hermione agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we're friends again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"F-friends?" Hermione repeated, looking dazed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Harry smiled, pretending not to realize why his use of
      the word friends had gotten to her so much (as her magic and her
      intellect had always made her a bit of an outcast and he could
      certainly sympathize) and proceeded to his dormitory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And was it strange that seeing his broomstick again had been
      just like seeing a long-dead friend again?</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The morning of Halloween, Harry received an unexpected letter.
      Well, the letter was unexpected because he never got mail, but the
      handwriting was downright shocking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quickly, Harry tore open the letter, wondering how in the world
      Sirius had managed to send him an owl from Azkaban. Unless…but no.
      He hadn't done anything drastic, like getting sorted into
      Slytherin, for Sirius to break out for, so how could the timeline
      have possibly been moved up?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dear Harry,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I realize that you've probably never heard of me. Or, at least I
      hope you've never heard of me. If you have, it's all been pretty
      vile, I imagine and you'll soon hear it at any rate. Most of it is
      a pack of vicious, vicious lies. Note my use of the word 'most'
      because I you'll have to remember that I was a teenager at one
      time. When you reach puberty, you'll understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyway, I thought you'd like to know that I'm not actually a
      mass murderer, I am not nor have ever been a supporter of
      Voldemort, and I'm your Godfather. Surprise!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Here's to hoping that since I broke out during the year, they
      won't subject you to the horrors of Dementors,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius Black</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ex-Con Extraordinaire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. Typical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"BLOODY HELL!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently, Sirius's escape had made the Daily Prophet again.
      Harry leaned over to Percy. "Hey, when you're done with that, do
      you think I could borrow it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Certainly, Harry," Percy replied and, twenty minutes later,
      handed him the paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," he said absently. Sirius's story was on the front page
      AND it was by Rita Skeeter. This oughta be good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Black Escapes Azkaban</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">By Rita Skeeter</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Sirius Black is widely known to be the most infamous
      prisoner ever held in Azkaban. The question of why, however, has
      yet to be answered. Yes, Black killed thirteen people with one
      curse. On the other hand, twelve of them were Muggles, which even
      the most inept wizards can accomplish, and the thirteenth was one
      such inept wizard.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Black's allegiance to He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named came as a
      great shock to many and it is easy to see why. Black was certainly
      not a member of one of the most prominent Dark Families in Britain,
      after all, nor was he implicated in an attempted murder when he was
      sixteen.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Despite the questionable nature of Black's reputation as
      infamous (given that Azkaban also houses noted prisoners as Black's
      cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange who was convicted for, among other
      things, torturing Aurors Frank and Alice Longbottom into insanity
      and who took down eighteen of the two dozen Aurors sent to capture
      her), three facts remain. People are terrified of Black. No one has
      ever broken out of Azkaban. Black broke out of
      Azkaban.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Despite its reputation as being impenetrable, perhaps
      there ought to have been a contingency plan in place. When
      questioned, Minister of Magic Cornelius Fudge had no comment but
      did insist that, "We are doing all we can to recapture Black and we
      beg the magical community to remain calm." When pressed, Fudge
      admitted that they had not yet worked out a plan, although since
      Black escaped mere hours ago, a plan will likely soon
      emerge.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">In the weeks before Black's escape, he was known to
      mutter in his sleep about "that greasy git" and "gotta go back to
      Majorca." Who exactly is this "greasy git" and is Black actually
      heading to Spain? Only time will tell.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. Rita Skeeter was really quite amusing when she
      wasn't hell-bent on destroying his life. Still, he wished she
      hadn't thrown in that part about Neville's parents. He'd have to
      talk to Draco and see if he could convince him to get the other
      first-years to lay off of Neville. The older years were generally
      too busy harassing each other to worry about them so Neville
      wouldn't have to deal with much. Although really, what kind of
      eleven-year-old taunted someone for having their parents tortured
      into insanity (especially when the taunters were actually related
      to the perpetrators)?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry arrived to Charms quite pleased. Draco, still shocked and
      thrilled that he (along with Harry) was the youngest seeker in over
      a century, still felt immensely grateful to him and agreed not to
      mention Neville's parents and to stop the others from doing so. In
      fact, he'd even gone so far as to tell Harry not to do something
      stupid like going after Black when he was a fully trained wizard
      and psychotic killer while Harry was a first-year, which was a far
      cry from the "I'd want revenge if it were me" of the first time
      around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students were all whispering about Sirius when Harry arrived
      and some shot him curious looks, clearly aware of how Sirius and
      Harry's father were best friends. Harry briefly wondered why no one
      had said anything about Sirius supposedly betraying his family to
      Voldemort, but then he realized that that wasn't exactly common
      knowledge and, what's more, not technically a crime. Granted it was
      morally reprehensible, but you really couldn't prove if someone was
      under a Fidelius Charm nor who the Secret Keeper was. Additionally,
      Harry could safely assume that most Secret Keepers were more
      trustworthy than Wormtail and so the only way they would betray
      someone would be through torture, and cracking under torture isn't
      exactly something one should be punished for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once class started, Harry didn't bother practicing Wingardium
      Leviosa as he already knew it and instead divided his focus between
      helping Seamus with it and watching Ron and Hermione. When Hermione
      levitated her feather perfectly and got points and Ron started
      looking angry, Harry quickly levitated his feather over to Ron and
      began tickling him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say, Ron was very irritated with Harry by the end of
      class. "Why in the world did you feel the need to torture me with
      that thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I was bored and it amused me," Harry told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you got it so quickly! Like Hermione, but at least you
      didn't go rubbing everyone's face in it. It's not wonder no one can
      stand her. She's a nightmare, honestly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned. Good God, Ron was <em class="calibre8">obnoxious</em> at that age.
      "You're just sore that she corrected your pronunciation. But you
      know, if she didn't, you never would have gotten it by the end of
      class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess…" Ron admitted grudgingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'd like to invoke the same rules I have concerning Draco
      where Hermione is concerned. Namely: No badmouthing my friends in
      front of me. After all, I don't let Draco say anything unless
      you're there to defend yourself. Alright?" Harry asked
      seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine…" Ron sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to look at Hermione and saw there were tears
      brimming in her eyes. 'Thank you,' she mouthed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just smiled.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">At the Halloween feast, Harry made sure to eat as quickly as he
      could in anticipation for the troll attack. He knew they'd continue
      the feast upstairs afterwards, but it somehow wasn't the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure enough, twenty minutes into the feast, Professor Quirrell
      came sprinting into the hall and gasped out, "Troll – in the
      dungeons – thought you ought to know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hm, what was his reason for being absent in the first place?
      Everyone else was there. And for that matter, how could he have
      explained why he was in the dungeons? And did he just leave the
      doors open and hope a troll would come wandering in? He'd never
      seen any in the Forbidden Forest. There was really no conceivable
      way this could have been an accident. Great going Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Prefects," Dumbledore roared. "Lead your houses back to the
      dormitories immediately!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Harry didn't know for a fact that the troll wouldn't really
      be there, he'd have pointed out that the Slytherin dormitories were
      in the dungeons. Although how to explain how he knew…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Harry said brightly. "I'm feeling reckless and thus I'm
      going to go looking for the troll. Who's with me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone at the Gryffindor table looked at him like he was
      crazy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're in," one of the Weasley's said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy looked aghast. "Fred!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I'll have to go to make sure you don't get yourself
      killed," Hermione sighed. "Although for the record, this totally
      counts as endangering others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If she's going, I'm going," Ron said, eager to prove that he
      was just as good a friend as Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville, who was also feeling reckless due to the article
      mentioning his parents, nodded that he was going.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy looked longingly at the staff table; the teachers had
      already left to go to the Dungeons. He turned to one of the other
      Gryffindor prefects and instructed them to get the Gryffindors back
      safely while he chased after his brothers and their friends.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, meanwhile, quickly left the Great Hall, the others
      hurrying behind him. He soon reached the girls bathroom (taking
      care not to pass by Snape heading to stop Quirrell from getting
      past Fluffy) and stood outside of it. "Excellent, my troll senses
      seem to be working," he beamed once he heard the troll inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley's, Neville, and Hermione did not look nearly as
      excited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you SURE this is a good idea, Harry?" Ron asked, looking a
      bit green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Harry nodded. "I mean, we're just a couple of
      schoolchildren about to face off against a fully-grown mountain
      troll. What could possibly go wrong?" And with that, Harry headed
      into the bathroom before the others had a chance to reply. "I
      suggest we use 'Sectumsempra'," Harry said as the others followed
      him in. "Except Ron and Neville, you guys do Wingardium Leviosa and
      drop his club on his head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think I can do that?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Positive," Harry grinned and fired the cutting curse at the
      troll. The troll's thick hide meant that it did not do nearly the
      amount of damage it would have done had the target been a human,
      but it still split its arm open. Behind him, the twins, Percy, and
      Hermione also cast Sectumsempra and did quite a job distracting the
      troll. Good thing, too, as it was taking Ron and Neville awhile to
      levitate the club and once he did, even longer to move it over the
      troll and drop it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow…" George said. "Keep this up-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we might actually-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Admit we're related."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even Percy looked impressed. "Well done, Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's ears turned pink and he looked very pleased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice, Neville," Harry complimented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sudden slamming and loud footsteps made them all look up. A
      moment later, Professor McGonagall, along with Snape and Quirrell,
      burst into the room. Quirrell took one look at the troll, let out a
      faint whimper and sat down, clutching his heart. Harry rolled his
      eyes at the DADA professor's theatrics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape bent down to examine the troll while Professor McGonagall
      glared at them, looking angrier than she had when she caught Harry
      and Draco playing Seeker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What on earth were you thinking of?" demanded McGonagall, with
      cold fury in her voice. "You're lucky you weren't killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After you guys left, I decided I wanted to go looking for the
      troll. I was…upset, after hearing that Sirius had broken out of
      prison." Mostly just because he didn't understand why it happened
      so early, but then, no one said he had to be specific. "Neville was
      feeling the same way because of what the article had said about
      Bellatrix but he wouldn't have done anything if I hadn't have gone
      and he didn't want me to go alone and the others went with me so as
      to stop me from getting killed. Percy did try to dissuade me, but
      once I left he had little choice but to follow me and had another
      prefect take the rest of the Gryffindor's back." Harry was laying
      it on a little thick, but he didn't want to get the others in any
      trouble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well – in that case…" Professor McGonagall said, staring at the
      three of them. "Potter, you foolish boy, how could you think of
      tackling a mountain troll on your own?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I wasn't really thinking of that so much as how
      one of my father's closest friends could have been a Voldemort
      supporter and mass murderer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall looked away, no doubt thinking about the fact that
      said friend (although it was Peter, not Sirius) had also been
      Harry's family's Secret Keeper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter, five points will be taken from Gryffindor for this. I
      understand your frustration, but you should not take pointless
      risks like this! As for the rest of you, you each win Gryffindor
      five points. Now, if you're not hurt at all, you'd better head back
      to Gryffindor Tower. Students are finishing the feast in their
      houses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They hurried out of the bathroom and back to the Tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do realize that you're insane, right Harry?" Hermione asked
      him. "And that we got extremely lucky and by all right should be
      dead right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Eh, I got us 25 points, why are you
      complaining?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right," Ron said, coming up to stand by Hermione. "He is
      mental."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. There was nothing like a little near-death
      experience to help forge a friendship. The others hurried off to go
      get plates and Harry was about to join them when a thought struck
      him. He knew what had happened now, why things had changed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Sirius had also fallen through the Veil.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review Please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
