<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Oh God Not Again pt1 - Oh God Not Again! Chapter 6, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Oh God Not Again pt1"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: I still do not own Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Yeah, I am skipping quite a bit of time, but to be fair
      the actual books do skip a lot of time, too, or else the year would
      just drag on</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As much as Harry wanted to find a way to contact Sirius (after
      all, he hadn't seen the man in eight years and with Sirius, at
      least, he didn't have to pretend to be a near-stranger, unlike
      everybody else he'd met again), he knew that he couldn't. Not yet.
      He wouldn't put it past Dumbledore to monitor his mail once he
      learned of Sirius's escape; not to be nosy or anything, but to keep
      Harry safe from what he thought was a huge threat. And at the
      Dursley's, where he had no one to monitor him twenty-four seven, it
      would be even worse. No, Harry would have to wait until Sirius
      contacted him. The problem being, of course, that Sirius had no way
      of knowing that Harry knew all about what had really happened with
      Pettigrew and those Muggles and the Secret Keeper Switch. And yes,
      he would have to return to the Dursley's, at least this year. After
      all, he really had nowhere else to go and Mrs. Weasley had the
      unfortunate habit of taking Dumbledore's word as law.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry also couldn't just go up and capture Pettigrew now for a
      number of reasons, not least of all that he had never taken the
      time to learn how to cast the spell to reveal an animagus. As a
      first year, he really shouldn't know what an animagus WAS and,
      given his lack of contact with any of his father's old friends, had
      no way of knowing that Peter was a rat and even less cause to think
      it was Scabbers. If he took this up with an adult, they wouldn't
      believe him and Scabbers would probably move on to another
      wizarding family, knowing his cover was blown. No, as vexing as it
      was, he'd have to wait until he heard from Sirius again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shortly after the incident on Halloween (which, of course, just
      invited more staring but did also have the unexpected side effect
      of convincing Fred and George that Percy wasn't a lost cause after
      all due to his part in their little escapade) was Harry's first
      Quidditch match. He wasn't really nervous as Draco Malfoy, though
      admittedly quite talented for an eleven-year-old and the best
      Slytherin House had to offer, had nothing on him. He could fly
      circles around Ginny back when she was on a professional Quidditch
      team. Harry wished he had joined one instead of becoming an Auror
      straightaway, but then again, it was right after the fall of
      Voldemort and he felt like he had a moral obligation to help round
      up all of his followers. Maybe this time, if he could end the war
      quicker or (if he was sufficiently brilliant/lucky) prevent it from
      taking place at all. Then he could play all the professional
      Quidditch he wanted before he reached thirty or so and had to
      retire (to become an Auror). Come to think of it, becoming an Auror
      while in possession of the world's most powerful and
      death-attracting wand probably wasn't the best plan, was it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The game started off innocently enough. Draco and Harry flew
      around aimlessly, searching for the Snitch. Harry <em class="calibre8">hoped</em>
      he'd be able to catch it before Quirrell thought to jinx his broom,
      but fate did not seem to be on his side. The second he did spot the
      Snitch, Flint slammed into him and one of the twins shot a Bludger
      at Draco. Naturally, in the confusion, the Snitch disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, to Harry's great annoyance, his broom
      started lurching. Harry groaned. He'd forgotten about that. Now, if
      he didn't do something quickly, Ron and Hermione would jump to
      conclusions about Snape and Harry really didn't want to set the
      precedent of blaming Snape every time anything went wrong. Not to
      mention he didn't want to have to actually start defending Snape
      until he absolutely had to as he really didn't like his Potions
      Professor and so saying nice things about him made him nauseous.
      Petty, perhaps, but Snape was worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The best thing to do would be to start a counter curse and hope
      that his and Snape's combined efforts would be enough to stabilize
      the broom. Unfortunately, counter curses to such things as
      bewitched brooms had been the sort of thing he'd resolved to look
      up later and so that was out. He could take his chances that Snape
      could stop Quirrell, but he vaguely recalled Quirrell saying
      something about how he only needed a few more seconds to knock
      Harry off his broom when Hermione knocked him over. And come to
      think of it, why in the world would Quirrell try such a public and
      clearly not accidental method to kill him? Idiot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, if the two obvious answers were out, Harry might have to
      try something slightly unconventional. He saw the Snitch down below
      him, to the left but heading his way. If he timed this just
      right…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood up and jumped off his broom. There were gasps all
      around the stadium-it was clear that Harry had done this on
      purpose. As Harry fell through the air, he could only hope he'd
      reach the Snitch before someone thought to do a something to slow
      him down, like Dumbledore did that time Dementors crashed that
      Quidditch game he had against Hufflepuff in his third year. Which
      was another reason why Quirrell was an idiot: there was no way
      people would just let him fall to his death. Really, why did he
      even bother?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure enough, Harry started to slow down. No! He was
      <strong class="calibre9">so</strong> close! Desperately, Harry twisted himself into
      a position to make him fall faster. Closer, closer…There! Harry's
      hand shot and grabbed the Snitch. He chanced a look over at Snape,
      who rolled his eyes at the fact that Harry was obviously more
      concerned about winning than landing uninjured. He was the only one
      who seemed to have thought to slow Harry down, though, so Harry
      supposed he should be grateful. He was definitely going to do
      everything in his power to make sure that Snape survived
      Voldemort's second bid for power and didn't become one of the most
      hated wizards in Britain (well, not any more than he already was
      among those who didn't…<span>appreciate</span>…his unique style of
      teaching. Seriously, didn't they have a seminar all potential
      teachers had to attend or something?).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry landed gently on his feet. That surprised him; he'd
      expected Snape to just let him fall when he was close enough to the
      ground to not get hurt. Then he remembered that Snape was rather
      bad at flying and figured he landed on his ass one or two times to
      many for him to do it to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Triumphant, Harry held up the Snitch. Within seconds, he was
      mobbed by the rest of his team.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good game," he managed to tell Draco as he was being dragged
      away to Hagrid's hut by Ron, Hermione, and (surprisingly) Neville.
      "I really lucked out that the Snitch just happened to be right in
      the path of my fall, huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was Snape!" Ron declared, once at Hagrid's. "Hermione and I
      saw him. He was cursing your broomstick, muttering, he wouldn't
      take his eyes off you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rubbish," Hagrid insisted. "What would Snape do somethin' like
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't Snape do all that whenever we have Potions?" Neville
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "Yeah, I do tend to provoke him a bit." At
      Hermione's Look, he amended, "Okay, a lot. But he's not going to
      try and kill me for it and he DEFINITELY isn't stupid enough to try
      anything in front of the whole school He'd probably try to poison
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Harry, I know a jinx when I see one; I've read all about
      them! You've got to keep eye contact, and Snape wasn't blinking at
      all, I saw him!" Hermione said urgently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if you ignore the fact that, as Neville pointed out, that
      kind of behavior is par for the course when Snape sees me, Snape
      was probably trying to stop me from falling off. I mean, he may not
      be a very good teacher, but he's not so bad as to actively try to
      murder his students. Besides, he was the one to slow me down when I
      jumped off so I didn't break anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione crossed her arms. "Okay, I'll bite. If it wasn't Snape,
      who <em class="calibre8">was</em> cursing your broom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quirrell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes bulged out. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's even less likely than it bein' Snape," Hagrid added
      helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron just stared at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was the only one who thought to ask, "Why do you think
      that? I mean, Professor Snape is much scarier and evil-looking than
      Professor Quirrell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly," Harry nodded. "So if it's that obvious that he's evil
      to a bunch of first years, Dumbledore would have probably picked up
      on it." Harry paused. Dumbledore did have the slight tendency to be
      optimistic to the point of foolishness. "Or at least Professor
      McGonagall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But wouldn't he have to trust Quirrell, too, since he's also a
      teacher?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Nah, it's Quirrell's first year. Plus, I
      talked to some of the older students and it turns out that there's
      some sort of curse on the position."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked skeptical. "A CURSE on a JOB?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Well, how else do you explain that nobody's
      lasted longer than a year for forty years?" Hermione didn't have an
      answer, so Harry went on. "And it can't be Snape because his turban
      doesn't make my scar hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes like 'Oh god, not <em class="calibre8">this</em>
      again.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Snape doesn't wear a turban," Ron said, confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly. Quirrell does though and I've learned that people in
      turbans are not to be trusted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many people have you met who've worn turbans, Harry?"
      Hermione asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, only the one," Harry admitted. "But he just tried to kill
      me! And to answer your question, Neville, while we all know that
      Snape hated my father with a passion and seems to think I'm James
      Potter reincarnate, he hasn't once mentioned my mother. He's
      insulted me on everything else in my life but her, which seems
      strange. Do you have any idea why, Hagrid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid, who was looking more uneasy at the second at the thought
      of Hogwarts Professors hired by Dumbledore out to kill Harry,
      brightened immediately. "Oh yeh, they were great friends, yer mum
      and Snape. At least til that fight at the end o' their sixth
      year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why does he pick on you so much?" Neville asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I look like my dad, right? Apparently I have my mother's
      eyes, though, and have you ever noticed he never makes eye contact
      with me? Besides," at this Harry grinned. "It's not like I don't
      give as good as I get."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The next month just flew by and Harry was surprised to wake up
      one day and realize that it was almost Christmas. He really needed
      to get a move on with those Christmas gifts. He also paid the
      Weasley twins ten galleons apiece in order to have snowballs
      constantly following Quirrell around and bouncing off the back of
      his turban where Harry knew Voldemort was. They didn't want to
      accept that much money at first, but then Harry explained that by
      'constantly' he meant 'until the snow melts.' They'd even managed
      to prevent the snow from melting inside and vanishing whenever any
      other teacher was nearby. Pure genius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One day, after Potions ended, Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville
      (who still persisted to hang out with them, which Harry thought was
      odd, but then, he was used to a trio. Maybe it was time to get used
      to the idea of a quartet? Even Ginny hadn't managed to really join
      them once she and Harry had started dating, but then, Ginny had
      started trying in their sixth year not first) happened by Hagrid on
      their way to the Great Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi Hagrid, want any help?" Ron asked, figuring it was the
      polite thing to do even if he wasn't exactly sure <em class="calibre8">how</em> to
      help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah, I'm all right, thanks Ron," Hagrid replied, realizing the
      same thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you mind moving out of the way?" Malfoy asked
      impatiently. "Are you trying to earn some extra money, Weasley?
      Hoping to be a gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts, I
      suppose – that hut of Hagrid's must seem like a palace compared to
      what you're family's used to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry met Neville's eye and they both moved forward to hold Ron
      back as he started to lunge at Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And just how would you know what Ron's house looks like?" Harry
      asked. "Are you some sort of stalker?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked surprised. "What? Of course not!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, it kind of sounds like you are. What do you think
      Ron?" Harry hoped that by involving Ron in a verbal battle they
      could avoid a physical one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you're right," Ron agreed, still straining against them
      but starting to calm down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides, didn't we already have this discussion about how not
      everyone can be Manor Lords?" Harry asked. "Honestly, you'd think
      the scion of wealthy Pureblood families would have a better
      long-term memory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I know," Neville agreed. His short-term memory had improved
      dramatically since getting away from the pressure of being expected
      to live up to his parents' legacy by his well-meaning but misguided
      relatives and finding friends who didn't keep comparing him to them
      (and Harry had even gone out of his way to criticize the way his
      relatives had piled those unrealistic expectations on him his whole
      life). He was still scared of Professor Snape, however, who was at
      that very moment coming up behind Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is the meaning of this?" he asked silkily, eyeing the
      still-struggling Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing much," Harry said brightly. "Just a friendly discussion
      on whether or not all the inbreeding affects one's memory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how do you explain Mr. Weasley?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Ron's a Pureblood so he got kind of offended," Harry
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why wasn't Mr. Longbottom equally offended?" Snape asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked to Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I often wonder the same thing myself," Neville said, thinking
      quickly. "Merlin knows I've had my share of memory problems over
      the years." He paused. "Or at least I think I have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape looked to Malfoy, who remained quiet, not wanting to admit
      that he'd provoked them when they hadn't even responded properly
      and so the Potions Professor just shook his head. "Move along, all
      of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am going to kill him," Ron announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make sure you at least do it after he does something to deserve
      it," Hermione advised, knowing there was little sense in trying to
      reason with him when he was like this. "And anyway, Neville, that
      was brilliant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He blushed. "Thanks."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On Christmas morning, Harry woke up to a larger stack of
      presents than he'd expected. Of course, it was still much smaller
      than he was used to, but he was fairly certain it was bigger than
      he had received his first first year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merry Christmas," Ron said sleepily as he stumbled over to his
      pile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You too," Harry replied, picking up the first present.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All in all, it was a good haul. He got a wooden flute from
      Hagrid, a fifty-pence piece from Aunt Petunia (which he gave to
      Ron), death threats from Uncle Vernon (no doubt for his parting
      words at the station), a Weasley sweater and fudge from Molly,
      Chocolate Frogs from Hermione, his father's invisibility cloak from
      Dumbledore, <span>Pranking 101</span> from the twins, a broom
      servicing kit from Draco, and a photo of his Mum and Dad (along
      with Frank and Alice) from Neville. Harry was especially happy with
      the last present. Yes, this was a much better haul than before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up at the sound of Ron gasping. "Harry…is this what
      I think it is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That depends," Harry grinned. "On what exactly you think it
      is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Nimbus 2000," Ron breathed. "But…but Harry, I don't
      even…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry about it," Harry told him. "Your mother made me a
      sweater because you knew my relatives wouldn't bother and I got you
      a broom so you can have an advantage when you're playing the twins
      because they are <em class="calibre8">good</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked torn between accepting the gift and bristling at what
      he still considered charity. Finally, his desire to have a
      top-of-the-line broom for once in his life one out. "Thank you," he
      said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, what are friends for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just then, the door flung open and Fred and George bounded
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merry Christmas!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks for the book on becoming Animagus!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most people just get us books on pranks-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which are nice-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you can't rely too much on those-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As great pranksters must always be original."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. "Don't go rushing things and getting hurt, but see
      if you can manage it before you graduate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're on," they agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In addition to Ron and the twins, Harry got thick wooly socks
      for Dumbledore (anonymously, of course), a book on Herbology for
      Neville, hair care products for Draco (he really wished he had a
      camera to see the look on his face, although he clearly used
      something on his hair), <span>Hogwarts a History</span> for
      Hermione (so she wouldn't have to keep checking it out), a sickle
      for the Dursleys in return for the fifty-pence, and <span>The
      Monster Book of Monsters</span> for Hagrid (since he already knew
      he would enjoy it).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's all that noise?" Percy asked, sticking his head into the
      doorway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His brothers, who had been in the middle of discussing their
      sweaters, looked up at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"P for prefect! Get it on, Percy, come on, we're all wearing
      ours, even Harry got one," Fred said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess she didn't hear the real story behind the troll, huh?"
      George added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I – don't – want-" Percy protested as the twins forced the
      jumper over his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you're not sitting with the Prefects today, either," said
      George. "Christmas is a time for family."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, the five headed down to Christmas dinner.
      Strange, though, Percy didn't seem to be nearly as reluctant to
      spend time with them as he wanted them to think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Review please!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
