<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>13. Educational - Educational, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="13. Educational"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's note: Although this is listed as Harry Potter
      fanfiction, it in fact relates to Harry Potter and the Methods of
      Rationality by Less Wrong, after chapter 76.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Why is it that Harry could never do anything the simple way?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had been wondering about that a lot recently, in between
      wondering if it was too late to break off all contact with Harry,
      leave Hogwarts, and transfer to some other school in a universe
      where things made sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(It was too late, Draco knew – far too late. It had probably
      been too late before he had even said one sentence to Harry in
      Madam Malkin's, but he still dreamed of a school in which his life
      was full of normal things – like, say, kids growing wings.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had all begun with that stupid hero league. Admittedly, that
      was Granger's idea, but she spent even more time with Harry than
      Draco did and Draco was already finding himself thinking words like
      "hypothesis" and "false positive" so there was a good chance that
      SPHEW was a little bit Harry's idea too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But not entirely. He would give Harry that much credit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then things had started to get unbelievable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most of Slytherin – especially the ones who had witnessed
      various events first hand – thought that the sheer impossibility of
      what had happened meant that no mere first year could have been
      responsible, and had therefore concluded that someone more
      important was secretly masterminding everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco remembered the naïve days when he had thought the world
      had worked in logical ways like that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Not that he wasn't glad that the other Slytherins were
      following the right train of thought with so little prompting,
      because he could have been in serious trouble otherwise.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A very large number of very impossible things had happened, and
      Draco was absolutely certain that it was because of Harry. Normal
      people just didn't think in that kind of way. It just didn't occur
      to normal people to even <em class="calibre8">threaten</em> to sacrifice the outer
      god.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Not that Draco believed Harry had really sacrificed anything.
      He knew too well that if Harry had discovered the existence of a
      sealed horror then his first course of action would be to
      <em class="calibre8">talk</em> to it – and that he would probably want Draco to come
      with him.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">((That thought had caused Draco to wake up with a start more
      than once in the past week.))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No normal person thought in that way, and there was only one
      person Draco knew who did. Admittedly, there could have been
      others, but Harry had been telling him about something called
      Occam's Razor which essentially meant <em class="calibre8">it</em> <em class="calibre8">was</em>
      <em class="calibre8">all</em> <em class="calibre8">Harry</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">s</em> <em class="calibre8">fault.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Probably.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">((Since discovering Science, he had felt the need to be a lot
      less certain than before about everything.))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(((It was a little annoying.)))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, assuming it was Harry, the obvious question was why had he
      done it? but the answer was obvious. It had been <em class="calibre8">Granger</em>,
      after all, and that was probably enough. Besides, it seemed to be
      in Harry's nature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Some would have asked why had Harry gone so far? but Draco
      would simply have repeated his previous answer, and perhaps added
      that Harry Potter had absolutely no comprehension of the idea of
      "too far.")</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were worse reasons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shouldn't have thought that, because here was Harry doing
      all this for a muggleborn – which was, of course, stupid – but if
      you added Granger into the equation it didn't seem at all as
      bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco had also noticed that he no longer even thought the word
      mudblood unless he forced himself to, which was probably Not A Good
      Sign.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't really care about the <em class="calibre8">why</em> anyway, he cared
      about the <em class="calibre8">what</em> and the <em class="calibre8">how</em>. In this case: what
      would Harry do next? and how was he meant to explain all of
      this?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wished Harry would warn him about this kind of thing in
      advance so he could plan what to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(He knew Harry never would, though. Draco wasn't sure if that
      was because Harry loved seeing how people would react or if Harry
      was just making it up as he went along.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">((Probably both.))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't really Harry's fault, because Draco was supposed to
      know what to say, <em class="calibre8">always</em>, but there were limits and Draco
      had reached them and it was only a matter of time before some of
      this got back to Father.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(For three days after The Incident he hadn't heard from Father
      at all, and that was Not A Good Sign.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(On the fourth day, he had heard from Father, and it had been a
      politely phrased enquiry into Goyle's wellbeing.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">((This was Even Less of a Good Sign.))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(He had passed on the enquiry to Goyle and found out that Goyle
      had stopped writing letters home.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">((By which they both knew he meant reports to Lord Malfoy.))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Because he didn't want to get Draco in trouble.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">((Draco had almost wanted to hug Goyle, he looked so
      worried.))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(((But, of course, he hadn't.)))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco had told him not to be stupid, just to write what had
      happened because Father understood that Draco was playing his own
      game.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Goyle still hadn't looked convinced but he had started writing
      again anyway.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">((Draco had made a note to work out what to do about Goyle at
      some point.))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(((But right now he was more worried about Harry.)))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dozens of Dark Lords had gone to Hogwarts before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Surely none of them had been like this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone would have noticed. <em class="calibre8">Everyone</em> would have
      noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was it like for the Dark Lord's friends, when he was
      Harry's age?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(That was the kind of question Draco never used to ask
      himself.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">((He wondered if they had ever felt like there were too many
      people in their brain.))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(((Sometimes he felt like four people, all at once.)))</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was very clear, by this point, that Harry could be a Dark
      Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But right now, he wasn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, he wasn't anything right now, but he wasn't even
      <em class="calibre8">becoming</em> a Dark Lord. He was becoming something new and
      terrifying and probably even worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco wanted to take him to one side and explain that Dark Lords
      were subtle and did not glue people to ceilings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(At least, not while they were still in their first year at
      Hogwarts.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wanted to tell Harry that if you wanted to be unpredictable
      then you could at least have the courtesy to do so in a predictable
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wanted to explain that there was politics and there were
      rules and there was the way the world worked and these things were
      meant to apply to everyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wanted to tell Harry how to be the next Dark Lord so that he
      could be the next Lord Malfoy and everything would be as it was
      meant to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(If the world ever got a taste of the future he suspected Harry
      was headed for at the moment, they would probably thank him for
      it.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he wasn't going to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not just because Harry wouldn't listen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(If that had been it, he would have said it anyway and known
      that Harry couldn't resist learning something new, even if he
      didn't want to.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not just because Harry wanted to be good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco wasn't even sure Harry knew what good and evil meant, if
      he still thought this was being good.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not even because Father might not approve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But because…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Stupid Harry Potter and his stupid Bayesian Conspiracy.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wanted to see what would happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So Draco was going to stand back and let it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it was going to be <em class="calibre8">educational</em>.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
