<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>27. Alternate HPMoR: Asking for Help - Alternate HPMoR: Asking for Help, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="27. Alternate HPMoR: Asking for Help"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">This story occurs in the universe of
      s/5782108/1/Harry_Potter_and_the_Methods_of_Rationality, diverging
      in Ch. 89. It contains spoilers for that story through that
      chapter, and is unlikely to make much sense without having read the
      same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I would expect this to be the first (deeply ingrained) response
      of anyone who grew up in a first-world country. It's so annoying to
      be in the position of yelling at a character to do something
      obvious...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bring her back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry -" the old wizard began. His voice cracked. "Harry -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have Fawkes cry on her or whatever. Hurry up." The voice that
      spoke sounded perfectly calm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, I can't, Harry, it's too late, she's dead -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So there's nothing you or Madam Pomfrey or St. Mungos can
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There isn't anything anyone can do! Her soul has departed,
      she's passed on!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fawkes, help me!" Harry held Hermione's shoulders and pictured
      in his mind, as well as he could remember, the location of
      Radcliffe Hospital, the only hospital with which he was
      familiar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An instant later, he pushed through the front doors of the ER,
      half carrying and half dragging her, and yelled as loudly as
      possible "Help me! She's not breathing!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Faced with such trauma, the medical professionals reverted to
      their training. A paramedic felt for a pulse and began CPR. Another
      rushed over with a stretcher, while a doctor called for plasma, O
      negative blood, and an open OR. As they rolled the stretcher to the
      operating room, the last thing Harry heard was the doctor calling
      for a shot of epinephrine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" the admitting nurse questioned Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... car accident... Um, is there a restroom? I think I'm
      going to vomit now." The nurse pointed. Harry turned and walked to
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he walked away, he heard another nurse ask the admitting
      nurse "Aren't you going to tell him he can't have a parrot in
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Parrot? What are you talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't see that large red bird flying around him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Fawkes "stay with Hermione. Do what you can for
      her, and try to stay out of sight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After doing his best to clean the blood off his hands and
      clothes, Harry transfigured his robes into jeans and a t-shirt so
      he would be less conspicuous. Then he put on the invisibility cloak
      and sat down outside the operating room; he was in no mood to
      answer questions or talk to anyone.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Later, back at Hogwarts, Dumbledore and McGonagall had brought
      the Grangers and Verres-Evans to his office. Which had taken an
      annoyingly long time with Fawkes absent. After the "Sorry for your
      loss" conversation, and summary of events, "So that's the
      situation. Do you have any idea where he would have gone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael Verres-Evans answered instantly "Obviously, a hospital.
      Since distance doesn't seem to matter to you people, he'd probably
      go to the one near Oxf-."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we checked St. Mungos. No one there had seen Harry." He
      paused, thinking, then "Expecto Patronum. Harry, where are
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronus returned. "Radcliffe Hospital, room 42" answered
      Harry's voice. Michael Verres-Evans stared at the wizard with
      undisguised contempt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A short time later, the six of them arrived in a recovery room.
      Hermione had a breathing tube and an IV, and a monitor showed her
      heart beating steadily. Fawkes was singing to her. Harry got up
      from the chair and took a step back as her parents rushed over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore spoke hesitantly "She died Harry. I don't know
      what-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dr. Michael Verres-Evans interrupted authoritatively "Death
      isn't that simple. It used to be determined by whether someone
      stopped breathing or had no pulse, but those methods are
      unreliable. If death is defined as the state from which one can't
      recover, then what it means to be dead changes every year: an
      injury which would have killed someone in the past might be healed
      today. Others try to get around that issue by referring to people
      as having died and recovered, but that just raises the question of
      whether the word retains any meaning at all." Petunia had taken her
      husband's arm and was not-so-subtly trying to pull him away from
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore continued as if he hadn't been interrupted "I don't
      know what those Muggle machines are doing or what you think you've
      accomplished. Hermione is gone. She's not going to wake up, she's
      not going to return to Hogwarts, and everything is not going to go
      back to the way it was before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So that's a testable prediction: you don't expect her to wake
      up. Therefore if she wakes up then it implies that one of your
      beliefs is necessarily wrong, either your belief that souls exist
      or your belief that they can't reattach to a body after you've
      decided that they left or something like that. That things aren't
      going to be the way they were is obvious. Whether she goes back to
      Hogwarts depends on her and your decisions after she wakes up, I
      guess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence for a moment while Harry and Dumbledore stared
      at each other. Then Petunia tried to change the subject "I only saw
      a little bit of your school, but it didn't look very wheelchair
      accessible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a flying machine in my pouch right now, Mom. I really
      hope that's the most serious problem she has in the near
      future."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
