<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 10: Shut Up And Multiply, Final, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: Shut Up And Multiply, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Harry Potter knelt beneath the moonlight, tears streaming
      down his face, and began to Transfigure the sacrificial circle
      around Hermione Granger.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was when Harry realised he was being
      <em class="calibre8">silly</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The note, after all, had told him to go back in time five hours,
      not six.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was a blur of colour, and the Order had fallen in on
      itself, Dumbledore doing his best to shield the rest from Voldemort
      whilst they held off Baba Yaga, but it was <em class="calibre8">not</em> tenable.
      One misstep could kill all of them. If Harry failed...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What would I do if I were Lord Voldemort?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If for some reason he had to abandon Hermione's body, he
      wouldn't just fly away and leave Baba Yaga to her fate. One doesn't
      become a Dark Lord by throwing away powerful allies, not when one
      is fighting David Monroe. No, Voldemort would simply possess the
      Transfigured backup body and keep right on fighting. He had nothing
      to lose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Am I sure of that?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if there was only a tiny chance that Voldemort would
      flee...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down at his watch, noted the time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A scrap of parchment appeared, reading simply, "YES".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned fiercely. A wave of powerful relief swept over him
      that none of the Order had thought to destroy Voldemort's backup
      body. They probably just assumed it was another of Voldemort's
      victims.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Next problem: how do I get Voldemort out of
      Hermione?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't hope to get close to Voldemort. He'd be cursed to
      pieces before he got within five metres. He doubted he could hit
      Voldemort with a spell, when he was moving that quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, Harry had to hurt Hermione enough to exorcise Voldemort, but
      not enough to kill her...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached into his pouch and signed three letters with his
      fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, Harry had learned, a handgun was <em class="calibre8">not</em> the
      ultimate wizard-killing weapon. Of course, a bullet moved faster
      than most spells, but it was only in films that gunshot wounds
      killed human beings instantly - and wizards were significantly
      tougher than Muggles. Barring a very lucky shot to the brain, a
      wizard of Voldemort's calibre could trivially heal any wound most
      weapons could inflict. This, of course, was assuming that your
      enemy didn't enchant some item of clothing with a Shield Charm as
      an obvious precaution. And, for that matter, that they weren't a
      troll-cum-unicorn moving faster than you could see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a sense of doom around Professor Quirrell, a legacy
      of the Riddle-imprint that made Quirrell almost count as Voldemort.
      That was as <em class="calibre8">nothing</em> to the sense of pure horror, the
      physical pain in his scar, around the true Lord Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was fairly sure that the resonance would be stronger,
      too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's lips curled into a tight smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had one hour remaining on his Time-Turner - more than
      enough to cast his Patronus, enlist Professor Quirrell's help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so Harry reached into his pouch and withdrew the gun Fred
      and George had <em class="calibre8">acquired</em> for him, loaded with a bullet
      carrying a simple Tracking Charm, made permanent by the Stone, the
      gift of his future self.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some time in the future, Harry would Transfigure the surface of
      the tracking bullet into itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes, allowed himself a fraction of a second to
      take a deep breath-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry aimed roughly at Hermione and fired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Transfigured metal and Voldemort's shields shorted each
      other out. The bullet carried on inexorably, and lodged itself in
      Hermione's chest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two Tom Riddles screamed horribly, and then Hermione's body
      collapsed in magical flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><strong class="calibre7">OoOoO</strong></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">She'll be</em> fine, <em class="calibre8">that troll could regenerate from
      losing half its skull.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no time to think, no time to notice what the Order
      were doing; Harry sprinted towards Voldemort's corpse, raising his
      wand-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell had explained the ritual to sacrifice a magical
      creature enough that Merlin's Interdict had allowed Harry to hear
      the incantation, <em class="calibre8">thuo tei dunamei</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had guessed that the majority component of Quirrell's
      animal-sacrifice ritual was the circle - there'd been no
      corresponding flare of doom when Quirrell had said the incantation,
      so it was probably not a major magical effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sacrificial circle was Transfigured around Voldemort's new
      body in a hair-thin line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Beneath the moonlight glints a tiny fragment of
      silver</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fixed his wand on Voldemort, began the chant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's scar began to burn as Voldemort's spirit returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Voldemort would certainly have time to shield himself from
      any curse. Dumbledore would not be able to kill him while he was
      down - it might cost him a great deal of strength, but even
      wandlessly Voldemort could sense and deflect any spell from where
      he lay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But for all his power - for all his ancient lore and wandless
      magic - Voldemort was still a human being. A disoriented human
      being, used to a unicorn's speed. Even if he'd known what Harry was
      doing...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was one brief moment when Tom Marvolo Riddle, terror of
      all Britain, the most powerful wizard the world had seen in
      centuries, the Dark Lord Voldemort, was nothing more than a magical
      animal, a specimen of <em class="calibre8">Homo sapiens</em> with a chunk of marker
      DNA.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Thuo tei dunamei!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pointed his wand at the form on the ground, then slashed
      it at himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle's inhuman face was a mask of terror and fury.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> how the Dark Lord felt. It was
      exactly how the imprint of Tom Riddle had reacted in Azkaban, the
      weakness to Dementors, the all-consuming desperate horror of
      non-existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was one horrible moment in which a Tom Riddle knew that he
      was about to die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...And that therefore he had no reason to avoid the magical
      resonance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"AVADA KEDAVRA!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't have time to scream.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something soft but <em class="calibre8">very</em> fast slammed into him from the
      side, throwing him clear, and the Killing Curse splashed uselessly
      against the Sunshine General, pale and shaken but very definitively
      alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Voldemort began to wither, flakes of skin cracking and
      crumbling away, and he turned to dust and nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm sorry</em>, thought Harry. He knew it was wrong, knew it
      was <em class="calibre8">stupid</em>, knew that Voldemort had caused untold pain and
      suffering, but...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had destroyed <em class="calibre8">all</em> but a remnant of the Dark
      Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's vision darkened as his mind was assaulted with more than
      he could possibly process all at once, all Voldemort's Interdicted
      lore, his magical abilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He would be lying to himself if he didn't admit that that was
      another benefit of the plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Later. Deal with it later.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baba Yaga spat one final curse, threw up a pulsing white
      barrier, and fled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached wearily up to his neck and spun the Time-Turner
      once.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
