<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 11: Shut Up And Multiply, Aftermaths, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Shut Up And Multiply — Aftermaths</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Tick. Whistle. Hiss. Hum. Pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat in Professor Dumbledore's office, feeling more...
      <em class="calibre8">blank</em> than anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Now what?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt as though he'd run out of road, like the world had come
      to a sudden jolting stop and he hadn't. <em class="calibre8">Quest
      complete.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes and breathed deeply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What do I need to do now?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It felt strange, sitting here while the world bustled happily
      on. Voldemort was gone, unmade forever. Severus Snape had fallen in
      battle - Harry felt a rush of sadness at that - but he knew that
      that was an amazingly low price to pay, to prevent another
      Wizarding War.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Forget the future, what are my immediate
      priorities?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was still trying to sort through his final inheritance
      from Voldemort. He needed to research how magical power worked at
      some point. So far, he felt <em class="calibre8">bigger</em> in some undefinable
      way. He was fairly sure that that was the feeling of the large
      "pool" of magical power he'd inherited from Voldemort, but cursory
      experiments (he'd tried snapping his fingers to conjure a banana
      again) hadn't worked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had been taken to St. Mungo's. They would find nothing
      wrong with her - only Fiendfyre could hurt her now, with her
      unicorn blood and troll healing and a Patronus burning bright
      inside her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perenelle Flamel was in his pouch, cold and Transfigured into a
      diamond. For all that she had more blood on her hands than
      Voldemort ever had, Harry couldn't in good conscience let her die.
      It would also be useful to see if she knew anything
      interesting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, that would require the Philosopher's Stone, which
      left another problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell, Harry reminded himself again, was not a good
      person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been <em class="calibre8">incredibly</em> irrational when it came to
      Professor Quirrell. Looking back, he could apply terms like
      "motivated cognition" and "Halo Effect", to explain - or
      <em class="calibre8">excuse</em>, if he was going to be harsh - why he hadn't
      noticed that the <em class="calibre8">Defence Professor of Hogwarts</em> was a
      sickly, slowly-dying victim possessed by the spirit of a far more
      powerful Dark wizard, but at the time...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was going to have to be a lot more cautious and a lot more
      introspective if he wanted to survive, let alone succeed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was going to have to look at everyone and see them
      <em class="calibre8">clearly</em> - without his own prejudices getting in the way,
      without Tom Riddle's fatal habit of seeing other people as, well,
      NPCs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he <em class="calibre8">also</em> couldn't afford to idolise people,
      <em class="calibre8">especially</em> not homicidal Dark wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Nihil supernum.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so Harry sat and considered David Monroe, as he knew
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell <em class="calibre8">was</em> sensible... if he valued human life at
      all, it was not absolutely unreasonably optimistic to suggest that
      he could be persuaded to surrender the Stone, so long as Harry
      swore to give him access to it. If not... Quirrell wasn't
      invulnerable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for what Quirrell <em class="calibre8">wanted</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell wanted to live, above all. On one level, that desire
      was effectively granted by virtue of the Horcruxes, and Harry had
      no power to threaten it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That said, Quirrell had been worried that Harry might destroy
      the world, and all his Horcruxes with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took little comfort from the Horcruxes. Even if the
      measures against things like torture and Obliviation Quirrell had
      spoken of applied to Harry as well, Harry was sure he could find
      some way. Harry needed to start taking precautions against ritual
      sacrifice...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore appeared in a flash of fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You will be polite,</em> said Hufflepuff. <em class="calibre8">You will now
      be sensible. You will not lash out at the most powerful wizard
      alive just because Tom Riddle didn't like him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked carefully at the Headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore had fought a war against an enemy who simply
      outmatched him, and it had almost broken him. He'd carried on
      nonetheless, because there was nobody else. He knew better than
      anyone the hero's burden.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been a fool not to re-evaluate the Chief Warlock, when
      it became clear that he was sane. He'd been a fool not to tell him
      what he knew. Dumbledore was wise, and he was good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Nihil supernum</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet, for all that, Dumbledore still thought that death was
      the next great adventure. He still had decided not to investigate
      the Philosopher's Stone, probably because that had seemed like
      something Voldemort might do-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced as Dumbledore punched cleanly through his
      Occlumency barriers, flicking quickly through his memories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster raised his hands apologetically. "I am sorry,
      Harry, but I had to be sure Lord Voldemort had not taken control
      over you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And make sure you got all the Flamels' lore from me,</em>
      Harry thought but did not speak aloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Headmaster Dumbledore sat down heavily. He reached over and
      scratched the top of Fawkes' head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Congratulations are in order, naturally. <em class="calibre8">Well done</em>,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head slightly. "I shouldn't have had to do that
      to anyone. And Professor Snape... I made a promise, when..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked gentle, but measuring. "Tell me, Harry. What
      was going through your mind, when you faced Voldemort? When you saw
      that he was winning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down at the desk. <em class="calibre8">Your anger with Dumbledore is
      the anger of a dead man. Your reasoning is artificially
      impaired.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I needed some way to kill him permanently. It wasn't until
      after I thought of the ritual that I realised it would kill
      Hermione as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed, and all at once he looked like an old man
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not wish to mar your triumph, Harry, but-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not stupid, Headmaster. I-" Harry cut himself off and took
      a deep breath. "Let me start again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes, composed his thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am sorry, Professor Dumbledore. Some things I've said to you
      in the past were... unfair. Vindictive. Frankly, cruel. Voldemort
      <em class="calibre8">hated</em> you, and so..." Harry trailed off. "I did listen to
      what you said after the trial. I knew about it even before then. I
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> going to sacrifice Hermione to kill Voldemort,
      Legilimise me if you don't believe me. I just... thought of
      something better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's gaze remained stern. "You did not know. Even with
      the Time-Turner, you did not know. Your future self might have lied
      to save Hermione. You still do not comprehend the magnitude of
      suffering-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Dumbledore had stood, and turned towards the direction
      of his Phoenix Price room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was a Plan B."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore halted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort's magic couldn't touch mine. The effect was worse for
      him - it killed him once." Harry smiled grimly. "My Patronus
      thought is something I can desire to share with anyone, even
      Voldemort. Plan B was to summon my Patronus and tell it to follow
      Voldemort. He'd never be able to return properly again, and we'd be
      able to track him down and sacrifice him if he ever tried."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Dumbledore was staring at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You... <em class="calibre8">weaponised</em> the Patronus Charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not a psychopath, I'm just very creative."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sat down in his chair even more heavily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," said Harry, "that reminds me, actually. Now is probably
      the time to tell you what the Philosopher's Stone actually
      does."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Dumbledore nodded. "Master Flamel only ever hinted. I
      thought it unwise to pry..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed another flash of irritation. <em class="calibre8">Prying into
      secret magic gets you killed. Dumbledore had no reason to think
      "Flamel" was lying.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Elixir of Life is a myth. The Stone makes magic permanent.
      And it can heal people, heal damage modern magic can't, things
      like... well, like Cruciatus damage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore flinched. "He lied, for all those years... kept it
      away from the world..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose," Harry said, not wanting the Headmaster to
      lapse into more regret, "you have any idea why one object would
      make magic permanent <em class="calibre8">and</em> cure brain damage?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't even sure that that reasoning was valid at all. He
      lived, after all, in a world of magic. For the first time, the
      terrifying thought was starting to occur to him that maybe the
      world just <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> ultimately make sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I said, I know very little of the Stone, Harry. I have,
      however, just now been trying to rectify that gap in my knowledge."
      That explained where Dumbledore had been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are references, scattered ones, to the <em class="calibre8">Stone of
      Alethiontology</em>, the Stone of True Being. I had thought it mere
      legend, but it seems likely that the Stone in fact has only one
      effect: to render any substance, magic or indeed person the
      <em class="calibre8">true</em> thing. How that is determined, I cannot say; still
      less, how it is brought about. All I will say is that it is at
      least the second most powerful artefact I have ever heard of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. And now Professor Quirrell has it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose it would be optimism to the point of foolishness to
      expect that he would hand it over."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "It won't be easy, but if it comes down to it,
      we might be able to seize it from him. And... <em class="calibre8">maybe</em>, if he
      could be persuaded that it made me less likely to destroy the
      world..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked at Harry oddly, then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard leant back in his chair and rubbed his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, it seems you already know something of your...
      situation. There is something I must show you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><span>OoOoO</span></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry beheld a long stone hall, stacked with shelves, feeling
      faintly unsettled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon the shelves rested small white orbs, shining eerily in
      Dumbledore's wandlight. Some of the orbs were polished and
      gleaming, but others lay beneath the dust of centuries. Somehow,
      though, they all seemed to belong equally, and there was no trace
      of any human hand disturbing those shelves to place the orbs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a blurring effect around the orbs and a sort of
      pressure in his ears that Harry didn't think was part of the magic
      of the place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The place was of a magnitude Harry would never have expected.
      The rows of shelves stretched into the distance - Harry guessed
      there were at least a hundred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That seemed unusual, really. <em class="calibre8">How many wizards in Britain -
      no, let's assume it's the whole world, so a million. We don't know
      how rare Seers are, but people seem to accept it as plausible that
      there'd be one or maybe even two in Hogwarts, so say one in a
      thousand. Seers never make many prophecies in a
      lifetime...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This place must have been <em class="calibre8">ancient</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This," intoned Dumbledore, "is the Hall of Prophecy, Merlin's
      gift."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore withdrew from his robes the device of the Chief
      Warlock, the Line of Merlin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When our war against the Dark Lord was failing, for all my
      magic, despite all the Order's efforts, I came to this place and
      did what no other had done in recorded history. I invoked an old
      password and listened to every prophecy recorded here. I learned
      that Voldemort was the least of my worries."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore gestured expansively. "This Hall is perhaps Merlin's
      greatest feat. There are hundreds of thousands of prophecies
      recorded here, from all over the world. Many of them are connected,
      and many of them are already averted. I have not listened to all of
      them, but all those I have heard point ultimately to one
      thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore placed a withered hand on Harry's shoulder. Harry
      realised he was holding his breath, and released it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This world is ending, Harry. Again and again, prophecies
      foretold the end of all life. Whenever I heard one such prophecy, I
      terminated its line of possibility. Whole shelves of prophecies I
      averted, whole lines of foretold tragedy I circumscribed, with a
      well-placed word or spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Dumbledore's gaze was fixed on Harry. "And then came
      your prophecy, Harry. By rights, I should have ended your
      possibility, prevented you from ever being born. You <em class="calibre8">will</em>
      end this world, Harry. That much is inevitable. Whether that means
      merely life as we know it, or this planet, or all existence, I do
      not know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Quirrell was right.</em> "Then... what..." Harry trailed
      off. If he was going to end the world - <em class="calibre8">why</em> hadn't
      Dumbledore killed him-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore smiled, and there was a gleam of something like
      triumph in those sapphire eyes. "In your case, your case alone,
      there is the slightest of loopholes. You, Harry, shall end <em class="calibre8">the
      world,</em> not <em class="calibre8">life</em>. I do not know how you could do it,
      but you have ever been blessed with more imagination than I. You
      may yet rescue this world's peoples, though their home may be
      doomed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I suppose it could be</em> worse<em class="calibre8">. We still have
      Dumbledore and Professor Quirrell and Hermione...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed a shudder. Something didn't feel <em class="calibre8">right</em>
      about this whole situation - which he supposed was fitting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore shook his head, as though to clear it. "And that is
      what I have dedicated my life to. That has been the ulterior motive
      behind... oh, at least nine parts in ten of my apparent madness. At
      the bidding of prophecy, I crept into your bedroom while you slept
      and administered the Sleep-Cycle Potion. I gave your mother Lily
      the means to help your mother Petunia, ensuring you would grow up
      surrounded by science. I used the Ventriloquism Charm to tell you
      to look for Hermione. When you were very young I cast a Reductor
      Curse at the rock on your windowsill, and to this day I still do
      not understand why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You killed my pet rock!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had found his voice at last, and that was what he'd
      blurted out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cleared his throat, ears burning slightly. "Can I hear
      these prophecies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. They are very clear that you must never hear them. I have
      heard all the recent prophecies that have not been already averted,
      Harry. They are of no further use, that much is clear. To that
      end..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore raised his wand and cast a spell Harry now recognised
      as Enai's Greater Destruction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thousands upon thousands of glass orbs shattered, the legacy of
      Merlin lying in fragments upon the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A mass of ghostly Seers arose, and for a brief moment the
      innumerable voices sounded like the roar of a jet engine even
      through the Charm on Harry's ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Dumbledore flicked his wand, and the images and glass
      fragments vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Chief Warlock raised the Line of Merlin Unbroken and touched
      it to the wall. There was no visible ceremony, no bangs or flashes
      or puffs of smoke, just a quiet sort of dying feeling as though
      someone had suddenly unplugged a television that had been on,
      unnoticed, in the background.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so we face the future unknowing, as it was before
      Merlin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two wizards burned out of existence, leaving only the silent
      shell of the Hall of Prophecy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><span>OoOoO</span></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell appeared in the dark street without a sound,
      and drifted into a slightly run-down cottage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inside lived amongst the most esteemed of magical historians,
      but she was old, withdrawn. She was into her third century, ancient
      even for a witch, and slowly dying. The Healers' arts were failing
      them more and more as Merlin's folly eroded wizardkind, and nobody
      still living could coax such damage to heal. Still, her magic was
      with her, and she refused all offers of help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Death Eaters were long since disbanded, and they had never
      been suited for such work as this. David was no fool. Riddle's
      little habit of underestimating other people had killed him, and it
      was time and past time for David to learn from his mistakes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he was going to save the world, it might be nice to have
      help. Prophecy was far from understood, but the best place to start
      might be here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody would be suspicious about the "death", not with a
      perfectly realistic corpse courtesy of the Stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Somnium, Legilimens</em>," Quirrell said to the sleeping
      form, extracting all the fragments of old lore, all the knowledge
      of influential people that the great historian had ever
      accumulated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the work of a second, to sweep his wand over the sleeping
      woman and fix the Transfiguration with the Stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Innervate</em>".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman sat up in bed, gasping, and it took her a moment to
      realise that she wasn't in any pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening, Ms. Bagshot," came a cool, precise voice. "I have
      a proposition for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><span>OoOoO</span></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was quiet, for a time, back in Dumbledore's office, save
      for the constant noise of the artefacts in the background.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," Harry eventually said again. "All this time,
      Professor, <em class="calibre8">you</em> were the sane one... the only one doing the
      right things for the right reasons..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore shrugged lightly. "I long since ceased to care what
      others thought of me. Life has far fewer headaches that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grew serious again - sombre, even. "Harry, in truth, I did
      not expect to survive Voldemort's downfall. I did not expect you to
      deliver us another miracle, to end Voldemort so soon. I am gambling
      literally everything on you, now. This is, as I'm sure you need no
      convincing, of quite literally the utmost importance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore reached into his robes for the Line, and passed it
      unceremoniously to Harry, without hesitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin's legacy is yours. Do not uphold it. Surpass it. That is
      your burden, Harry. I give you everything I have - the Line,
      leadership of the Order, all such resources as I can command. I
      will gladly share any fragment of lore you require. If you can find
      some way to overpower me somehow - preferably without killing me,
      if you wouldn't mind - to take the Elder Wand, do so. Your survival
      is <em class="calibre8">imperative</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took the Line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing visible happened. Merlin had not shared the Peverell's
      more ostentatious excesses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Line did not grant its wielder any secret magical powers. It
      simply granted them control over the Wizengamot, and let them
      monitor the Department of Mysteries, and opened certain
      <em class="calibre8">very</em> interesting vaults...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't allow the Chief Warlock to break the Interdict, not
      even with the world at stake. Merlin had planned millennia in
      advance, and the Line could not tell what its wielder would be
      inclined to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin, you idiot..." Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come again?" asked Dumbledore, one eyebrow raised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Interdict. It stopped people from ending the world with
      dangerous magic, but it didn't have any measures built in in case
      people <em class="calibre8">needed</em> powerful magic to prevent some
      <em class="calibre8">other</em> threat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would you have done instead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Used the Mirror," Harry replied promptly. "It shows your
      <em class="calibre8">coherent extrapolated volition</em>. If I'd made it, the
      Interdict would censor powerful magic <em class="calibre8">unless</em> you stood in
      front of the Mirror and it showed you not ending the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alas," said Dumbledore. "Even Merlin did not consider
      everything." He steepled his fingers. "I cannot, at present,
      conceive of any means of lifting the Interdict, but that does not
      mean it is impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry yawned, the events of the day finally catching up with
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt you will have time to lead the Wizengamot, and frankly
      it is a bureaucratic nightmare I would not wish upon Voldemort
      himself. I suggest you appoint me as regent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded wordlessly, and returned the Line of Merlin..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore seemed to understand. "My office is open to you,
      Harry. Come at any time. There is more I must discuss with you, but
      it can wait. Sleep well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stumbled from the office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><span>OoOoO</span></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">An infinitesimal fragment of ruby positively glittered with
      enchantment beneath the microscope. With the slightest spell, it
      adhered seamlessly to the Philosopher's Stone, and its magic became
      true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><span>OoOoO</span></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">David appeared before a quarantine room of St. Mungo's hospital.
      Hermione Granger slept within, next to a box of rats and flies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Knockturn Alley was home to many who would not be missed. One
      such individual lay now in an enchanted sleep, floating eerily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was absolutely necessary, as even those called good would
      agree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What could charitably be called a life ended in a flash of
      green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark wizard stood, murmuring the spell of the Greater
      Horcrux over Hermione Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a time, a small item disappeared into his robes, and
      Quirrell and his victim vanished as though they had never been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a resigned sadness across the nation the next morning,
      when it was found that Bathilda Bagshot had died peacefully in
      bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody noticed the disappearance of another nameless petty
      criminal.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
