<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 3: Playing Chess, Part Two:Pawn Takes Queen, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Playing Chess, Pt 2 — Pawn Takes Queen</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: Apologies for the delay.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Leirad: Harry does not know the Summoning Charm, which
      Canon Harry doesn't learn until GoF.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The white king's pawn ground forwards two places.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First. Who exactly are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's shoulders straightened, and he appeared to
      consider the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am Professor Quirinus Quirrell, Lord David Monroe, Sir Jeremy
      Jaffe, Doctor Artadus Bunting, and a handful of others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's gaze grew distant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for how I came to be what I am... well. You are familiar, I
      know, with the Dark Art called Horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. He'd given some thought to how that spell could be
      used, if it could be engineered to use some different source for
      the death-burst, such as a magical creature. If a phoenix's
      regeneration superseded the power of a magical sacrifice, that was
      one potential option...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was David Monroe, defender of Britain. The Dark Lord was
      tearing the country apart, and if Magical Britain fell the rest of
      the world would surely follow. The Order could not hope to defeat
      Voldemort." The voice grew bitter. "I thought myself better suited,
      a Slytherin to counter a Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe's eyes narrowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was naïve. Albus Dumbledore was the only living wizard who
      could truly be called Voldemort's better, on top of that wielding
      the Hallowed Wand, called the Only One He Ever Feared. At no point
      was he anywhere near enough to match the terror that was the Dark
      Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The beginnings of a sneer were playing about his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was a fool, a complete and utter fool. You wonder where I
      learnt my wizardry, boy? I pierced Salazar's Chamber, I spoke to
      his snake, I studied the Forgotten Arts. And when I was finished, I
      thanked the Basilisk courteously and left. I returned to the
      Chamber in my final year, to give my final thanks and
      goodbyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then his voice was no longer contained, but cracked and
      vicious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I found the Basilisk's mouldering corpse! Beside it was a
      Penseive with a memory of Riddle <em class="calibre8">gloating</em> that he had
      killed the creature that only ever wished to help him, that Salazar
      had left as an unconditional gift to his heirs!" The aura of danger
      around Quirrell focussed into a pain in Harry's scar, and a light
      wind fluttered the elder wizard's robes around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I make no claim to be a good person, Mr. Potter, but I like to
      think that I am not so empty as Riddle was even as a child."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A black knight fell from its granite horse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell clenched a withered fist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet, I thought I could stand against Voldemort. Do you know
      what his plan truly was, boy?" he spat. "I learned of it later; you
      will understand soon enough. The Dark Lord was <em class="calibre8">playing</em>. I
      was powerful enough, courtesy of Slytherin's Monster, but utterly,
      hopelessly outmatched. Voldemort could have taken over Magical
      Britain within a week. But he had been <em class="calibre8">bored</em>, he was
      <em class="calibre8">having fun</em>... His plan was to allow me, David Monroe, to
      seemingly finally defeat him and take over Britain, and thence the
      world. But when he learned of the prophecy, he had no further use
      for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell sacrificed a pawn to the white queen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed. "In the beginning, I thought I could redeem Slytherin
      house. It says something rather profound that one thing I shared
      with the Dark Lord was an intense dislike of bullies. I would
      change that, become the Slytherin against whom all others would be
      measured." A short, bitter laugh. "And yet I was always a pawn of
      the Dark Lord, as I discovered one Hallowe'en."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave a small, involuntary step back at that. The tension
      had been rising, and Quirrell looked coldly, calmly furious. Harry
      had the uncomfortable notion that this was what his friends felt
      when he was angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew the prophecy, and I had received intelligence that the
      Dark Lord intended to attack your home. I arrived on the scene to
      find James dead on the threshold, Lily fallen having tried
      desperately to save you." A touch of sorrow reached Quirrell's
      eyes, such an expression as Harry had rarely seen on him. "The Dark
      Lord used Lily's death to perform the Horcrux spell upon you. He
      planned, I believe, to thus destroy all but a remnant of you and
      remove the difference between your spirits, and set you up as a
      puppet instead of me. It did not end well for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The resonance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. I am given to understand that the resonance is a
      side-effect of prophecy. As the Dark Lord wrought his spell, the
      turbulence began to burn him from the inside out. Just as I
      arrived, Riddle counterspelled my attempt at shielding as easily as
      I overwhelmed those bullies in the hallway, and then he cast aside
      his wand and tried to possess me, hoping to protect himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The white king moved to hide behind a pawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I- I was caught up by the Horcrux spell. As he was trying to
      possess me, it was not the traditional overwrite, but a massive
      input of all that Riddle was..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell trailed off, and took a deep breath. He looked
      <em class="calibre8">old</em>, and tired, and miserable. The Defence Professor had
      never shown such emotion in all the time Harry had known him. He
      gave Harry a measuring look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter... Harry. This- this is not a pleasant story,
      especially for you. This is one of the things I see when the
      life-eaters approach. And yet I know that you have seen things most
      will have the luxury never to see. You are no ordinary child. Even
      so, I will not blame you if you refuse to see this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A lump rose in Harry's throat. It was the first time, the first
      time Professor Quirrell had ever used his first name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the dark robes came a small, grey stone bowl etched with
      odd runes, which settled on a conjured desk. Quirrell placed his
      wand to his temple and drew from it a thread of what looked like
      something between molten lead and Patronus light, which settled in
      the bowl, glowing faintly blue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">It iss ssafe</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed, remembering the last Penseive memory he'd seen,
      Dumbledore losing his brother. He placed his hands on either side
      of the bowl, and leaned down until he fell into the memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The nursery was warm and brightly-lit and airy, yet it held a
      chill reminiscent of Dementors. Lord Voldemort stood over the
      corpse of a red-haired woman, tall and pale and terrible, tracing a
      spiral pattern in the air. The spiral was neither dark nor bright,
      no colour human eyes should have received, no colour a human brain
      could describe - it looked like the colour of something entirely
      colourless, with nothing behind it whatsoever, the same colour as
      what Harry saw out of his elbow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry realised with a jolt that this was in part Voldemort's
      memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small part of Harry noted that the Penseive showed more detail
      than Voldemort could possibly see, let alone remember, and wondered
      how to exploit that ability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black hatred surged in Harry as the Dark Lord touched his wand
      to Lily Potter's forehead and raised it to the swirling spiral of
      nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Voldemort hissed in cadences older than Latin,
      "<em class="calibre8">Sozdomai, ton phrenon emou sozdo...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The beginning and ends of the spiral of nothingness glowed stark
      white.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bone-white wand rose, touched the infant's head-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the far wall was torn away, a gust of wind blew
      freezing droplets into the warm room, and a man dismounted a
      broomstick and drew his wand in one smooth motion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I truly thought I might save them," came the soft voice of the
      modern-day Monroe from behind Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jumped and turned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am... very sorry for what happened this night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, not trusting himself to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young Monroe rushed towards the screaming Dark Lord, opening
      his mouth to chant Shield Charms-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort slashed his wand and released it mid-swing. Monroe's
      shields were torn away like so much tissue paper, the Dark Lord
      vanished in a black swirl, and Monroe collapsed, holding his hands
      to his bleeding head and screaming, screaming in two tones,
      alternately deep and human and high-pitched and demonic-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spiral of nothingness flashed every colour and burst,
      setting every hair on Harry's neck on end and-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The nursery vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The darkness coiled around him, and David was dead, he knew
      he was dead, life could not possibly contain such pain. Suddenly
      his head rushed, and he was assaulted with a thousand books, a
      thousand libraries, everything that was the Dark Lord, and it
      burned.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The scene changed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The scraggly little rabbit was growing old. It had a bite
      taken out of one ear and its fur was falling out and most of its
      tail was long gone, but Billy Stubbs doted on it. It didn't take
      Legilimency to know that it was the only thing left in the world
      that yet loved Billy.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">One day, Billy had shoved Tom Riddle at the dinner table,
      had taken the last of his favourite food, and when Tom had
      protested Billy had hit him, and called him a freak.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And Tom had listened to Billy's screams, and his sobs, and
      more screams every night when he had nightmares (always
      inexplicably vivid and consistent), after the rabbit was found
      hanging by its neck from the rafters, and smiled.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The scene changed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Go on, then!" bellowed the small, balding man. "Go on
      then,</em> Tom! <em class="calibre8">Kill me! Martyr me! I've lived a good life.
      More than anyone could say for you. You're</em> pathetic<em class="calibre8">. I'm
      not scared of you."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Is that so, Yermy?" hissed a voice that might have come
      from the whistling wind or the crackling fires consuming the
      bolt-hole. "Is that so?" He waved a skeletal, spidery hand, and the
      Disillusioned, Silenced forms of three women were revealed behind
      him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"No," whispered the old man, "No, no, NO-"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The scene changed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord reappeared in the nursery, staggering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the scene paused, and Professor Quirrell turned to
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dark Lord unwittingly imprinted his being onto me," intoned
      the modern Monroe grimly. His voice took on something like a
      professorial tone, though it was still strained. "Mr. Potter, when
      you heard of the Horcrux spell, what was your first thought?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took him some effort, through the numbing pain, horror and
      revulsion, but Harry thought back. "To improve it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And this Lord Voldemort had done. He had formed his greatest
      creation: an improved Horcrux. Legends suggest this may have been
      the original form of the spell. Regardless, each Horcrux granted
      him what might be called a soul: a constant non-physical embodiment
      of his being."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Something of a Riddle.</em> "One Horcrux buried in solid
      rock," muttered Harry heavily, "One Horcrux sunk to the depths of
      the ocean. One Horcrux dropped into the Earth's mantle. One Horcrux
      flying invisibly in the sky. And one drifting forever through
      space, the Pioneer Plaque."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't quite as bad as it could be. There might be some way
      to track them, somehow, through the magical link that must surely
      exist in some form... and NASA knew exactly where the Probe
      was...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell seemed to gather himself, and his gaze turned sharp.
      "If you are considering the practicalities of a great quest to hunt
      down the fragments of the Dark Lord's soul, know that the spell has
      no great cost, merely a murder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," said Harry hollowly. "The Dark Lord made a Horcrux
      every time he murdered someone. Pebbles tossed in the sea, grains
      of sand..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter, this puzzle," Quirrell gestured to the tableau, "is
      soluble with your knowledge of magic. The Dark Lord Voldemort
      releases his possession and reappears before you, briefly dazed,
      and you are able to Stun him before he recovers. He has thousands
      of Greater Horcruxes hidden even he knows not where. If you kill
      him, he will return, and he will wreak the most terrible vengeance
      upon you. What do you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the solution instantly. What he'd been calling his
      dark side was just the echoes of the Dark Lord in his mind, and
      when he'd asked it what it thought of death...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord Voldemort had held such a terror of death that he
      had seized on his first solution and implemented it again and
      again, flinching away from the uncomfortable thought that it might
      be fallible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Muggle security analyst would call that fencepost security,
      like building a single mile-high fencepost in the middle of the
      desert. Nobody would try to climb it - they'd simply walk around
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No number of Horcruxes would ever help Frank and Alice
      Longbottom. Thirty minutes under the Cruciatus Curse, and the Dark
      Lord would be gone forever. Or, even better, hit him with an
      <em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em> hard enough to make him forget his own name. The
      greatest Dark Lord in centuries could be destroyed by a first-year
      of Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You Memory-Charmed him so hard that he lost his entire episodic
      memory?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell shook his head. "That would have been the
      better solution, but no. Not quite." His eyes were stony and still,
      his face seeming carven from ice. "Words cannot possibly express my
      feeling in that instant. Monroe's righteous rage, Riddle's cold
      fury..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The memory-Monroe snatched the Dark Lord's fallen wand and
      hissed, "<em class="calibre8">Stupefy</em>." The scene froze again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Using two wands is dangerously unpredictable and inefficient,
      but I was beyond all reason." The words were quiet. "I had
      <em class="calibre8">hated</em> Riddle before. He murdered my entire House, and some
      he did not grant the mercy of the Killing Curse. I arrived too
      late, held them as they died... and yet never before I received his
      Horcrux spell did I feel such loathing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The younger Monroe aimed two wands at the Dark Lord and
      shrieked, "CRUCIO!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched, almost unseeing, as the Dark Lord writhed and
      twitched under the wands of Harry's friend's younger self.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't right, it shouldn't have happened, not even to him,
      not to anyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell's voice was soft, lilting, and Harry felt sick as he
      realised that this was most likely the best part of the memory for
      Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before you judge me too harshly, Harry, listen. This is my
      worst memory, the worst memory. This night, I was made to be like
      the Dark Lord. Riddle had once tried to be happy. He was nothing if
      not sensible. He spent a great deal of effort trying to help
      people. He was Alexander Chernyshov, he liberated some tiny
      hellhole and its inhabitants wept tears of gratitude. For him, it
      felt like nothing in particular." Quirrell's voice dripped
      contempt. "I can still remember how it used to feel to help people,
      call to mind the warm glow. Sometimes I still feel it, to some
      degree. That plain indifference is the Dark Lord's curse, worse
      than any magic I or any other could cast on him. And that is what
      he gave to me. And that is how I cast one of the most dreadful
      curses and feel nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was frozen, he had no idea what to say, no idea what to
      think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will not show you the worst of Riddle's atrocities. I am not
      a soft-hearted man, Mr. Potter, but sometimes I still wake from
      nightmares about what happened to Amy Benson and Dennis Bishop,
      when the Dark Lord was nine years old."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The memory faded, and Harry was standing once more on a tile of
      cool stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wiped the sweat from his forehead. There would be time to
      process all of this later, time to rage and weep later. For now he
      could use his Occlumency and <em class="calibre8">pretend to be</em> someone
      impartial. He needed to learn as much as he could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was the Dark Lord actually planning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The grim, stony expression remained. "The Dark Lord planned to
      have David Monroe appear to kill him, then touch a Horcrux and
      become a puppet leader. As for why he did not effect this sooner...
      past emotions are difficult to untangle from the mess of Riddle's
      memories, but I believe he was simply enjoying the game too much.
      He felt invulnerable, and fell too deeply into the role he was
      playing. Dumbledore, you see, has not a Slytherin bone in his
      entire body, and yet he tries because he must. Dumbledore brings to
      his task the Elder Wand, the Line of Merlin Unbroken, a phoenix,
      some source of foreknowledge, magic beyond any seen for three
      hundred years, intelligence, dedication, and an utter lack of
      talent. For that reason, he is marvellously difficult to
      predict."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's throat felt dry. Somewhere, the Sorting Hat was
      screaming at him. The thought had finally occurred to Harry that
      his unreasonable hatred of Dumbledore had come from the imprint of
      the Dark Lord, and indeed, when he'd queried his dark side he'd
      found burning hatred and contempt. <em class="calibre8">I think</em>, said
      Hufflepuff, <em class="calibre8">you owe someone a very big apology.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell's lips thinned. "The Dark Lord's little game broke five
      of my rules at first count, which is generally too much no matter
      how much fun one might be having, but I suppose he thought he stood
      to lose little."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The white king was hemmed in now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Another question, Professor. Who killed Hermione? The wards
      identified it as you." <em class="calibre8">Please don't let it have been you, if
      you killed Hermione I want to believe you killed Hermione, please
      don't let it have been you...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell set his teeth. "I did not succeed in what I
      did to the Dark Lord, Mr. Potter. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course you didn't. It would be <em class="calibre8">purest optimism</em> to
      assume the Dark Lord is no longer a threat, just because he was
      Cruciated into insanity and burned to a crisp..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dark Lord was the greatest Occlumens in all recorded
      history. Merlin himself would have been unable to pierce his mind.
      Somehow, he managed to ignore the curse long enough to fake
      catatonia. Like a fool, I approached, and he seized his wand and
      poured the scraps of his magic into a blasting curse that vaporised
      my body and blew the roof off Godric's Hollow, but burned Voldemort
      as well. He expired shortly thereafter. As a partial copy of the
      Dark Lord, I was protected by the Horcruxes. It was then that I
      found that the great creation was imperfect. I could not float
      free, but was shackled to Horcruxes that the Dark Lord had hidden
      even from his own eyes. I was trapped amidst the stars for years. I
      did consider going mad, and sometimes wonder that I might have. The
      stars were my greatest comfort, for it is their nature too to burn,
      lonely, in the night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blank look on the Defence Professor's face was unnerving.
      "Eventually, almost two years ago, a man named Quirinus Quirrell
      found a Horcrux hidden in the folly of Riddle's youth, when he
      hoped for immortality by hiding lesser Horcruxes behind tests of
      skill and might. Quirrell was a Muggleborn adventurer, come to seek
      his fortune, with a vague fallback plan of teaching Muggle Studies
      at Hogwarts. I had more presence of mind than the Dark Lord's
      shade, and seized control. I suppose I shall owe Mr. Quirrell an
      apology when I can create a new body with the Stone, though this is
      something different from true possession and I doubt he will be
      permanently harmed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A pang of sympathy for the original Quirrell tore through Harry,
      although he supposed that it was technically justified to steal
      someone's body for a few years, to escape eternity trapped alone
      with Voldemort. "So Voldemort..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell sighed, and he seemed to diminish somehow.
      "Nobody is immune to mistakes, Mr. Potter." He traced a symbol in
      the air with one unbroken finger movement, a triangle containing a
      line bisecting a circle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thinking the Dark Lord truly lost, I sought the Resurrection
      Stone when you showed me its symbol. I found it upon a ring that
      Voldemort had long ago made into a Horcrux - by sheer chance, he
      had targeted the ring, not the Stone - and hidden in the ruins of
      his grandparents' home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The foul bird in the corner fluttered its wings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In retrospect, I ought to have burned the place to the ground
      with Fiendfyre and then sought the Hallow, which may have escaped
      even that curse, and yet I learned too late the value of
      unsubtlety. Some curses, such as the Parselmouth curse, are more
      effective and easier to cast if they bind the caster as well. The
      Dark Lord, clever even as a youth, had cursed the ring to compel
      any who came upon it to covet it, to protect it, to wish to own and
      use it for themselves, bypassing any shield, and had made up for
      such a powerful effect by having it apply to himself tenfold."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sick feeling was growing in the pit of Harry's stomach again.
      <em class="calibre8">I'm sorry, Headmaster</em>. "The curse identified you as the
      caster and overwhelmed you. You made the Resurrection Stone your
      Horcrux, and now, with its magic, the Dark Lord's shade can move
      freely. Voldemort possessed Professor Sprout, and framed Hermione,
      and set the troll on her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell nodded gravely. "The Dark Lord is half-mad,
      Mr. Potter, but still not stupid. He strikes blindly at you. He
      Transfigured the troll from the cloak I was wearing on the day the
      Headmaster identified me to the wards, and used an old ritual to
      transfer a true troll's magic to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry clenched a fist. "What way can you conceive to eliminate
      the Dark Lord <em class="calibre8">permanently</em>, Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Further Cruciation. Obliviation. The Draught of Living Death.
      The Dementor's Kiss may suffice, although I doubt it. Dropping his
      wand into the pit of Azkaban, although that would only affect the
      Dark Lord if he had a body, and the wand would swiftly be broken
      down by the Dementors. Invoking some sort of truly greater,
      insurmountable magical effect may work, such that from that day
      forward the world would be without the Dark Lord... in fact, I
      think there may be something quite close by."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The white king was alone on the board, now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First we heal you, Professor. Then we resurrect Hermione, and
      then we make sure the Dark Lord never mildly irritates us
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell laughed grimly, and behind him, the bird of
      black fire spread its wings and gave a warped, crackling cry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And of course, Mr. Potter, <em class="calibre8">what I have ssaid in thiss room
      iss no lie: am Horcruxx-copy of Dark Lord imprinted on
      pureblood-lord-hero, greater Horcruxxxesss presserve Dark Lord
      copiess ssuch asss mysself, Dark Lord livess, half-mad, he attacked
      girl-child friend</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cry came once more, louder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded curtly, and stepped onto the back rank, trapping
      the king. "Checkmate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The white king's crown fell at his feet, and the next door swung
      open.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
