<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 6: Interlude: Conspiracy Theories, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Interlude — Conspiracy Theories</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell threw away his wand as though it had caught
      fire, lurched away from Harry, and blurred down into his Animagus
      form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pressed his hands over his eyes, waiting for the pain to
      fade.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We did it. Professor Quirrell has the Stone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry exhaled slowly. Transfiguration was powerful enough
      already, and now they had the power to make it permanent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You couldn't Transfigure specific people, of course, and nor
      could you Transfigure lost books, but bizarrely enough you
      <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> need perfect knowledge of what you were making to
      Transfigure it - Professor McGonagall didn't have an encyclopaedic
      knowledge of porcine biology, and Harry didn't know the precise
      specifics of a rocket. In fact, even steel was complicated: there
      were different sorts of steel with different amounts of carbon and
      other additives. Transfiguration could clearly get information from
      <em class="calibre8">somewhere</em> that wasn't the caster's brain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his eyes and saw for the first time his
      surroundings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The floor was worn and grey with dust, stained oddly brown in
      places. A slashed painting hung crookedly above a ruined fireplace,
      cold ashes spilling out over the floor. Nearby was a chair with
      three legs torn off. The room looked like it had been
      <em class="calibre8">shredded</em>. The whole place felt uneasy, like the quiet
      aftermath of a storm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed a shiver. <em class="calibre8">Ahem</em>, said Hufflepuff,
      <em class="calibre8">it might actually be a good idea to be afraid of magical
      haunted houses.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake lay unconscious on the dusty floor, a sealed silver
      pouch behind it. Harry couldn't <em class="calibre8">Innervate</em> Professor
      Quirrell, and he wasn't sure that it was possible to shake a snake
      awake. Absently, Harry wondered how the rules for Animagus
      transformations worked - if you touched the Stone to an Animagus,
      were they trapped forever? What happened if you turned into an
      Animagus while holding an indestructible magical artefact, then
      died?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was probably a good idea to start planning the best
      applications of the Stone, so Harry closed his eyes and
      thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Transfiguration seemed even more strange the more that Harry
      considered it. The universe, or the Source of Magic, or whatever,
      would obligingly fill in all the necessary information about nerve
      configurations and biochemistry and such if you said <em class="calibre8">give me a
      working pig from scratch</em>, but not if you said <em class="calibre8">give me a
      working Hermione Granger from scratch</em>. It would give you all
      the information you needed, and which you absolutely didn't already
      know, to Transfigure a computer, but not to Transfigure a
      nanofactory. That didn't necessarily mean that nanofactories were
      impossible - Harry had tried to Transfigure a computer
      <em class="calibre8">slightly</em> more powerful than modern-day technology, and it
      hadn't worked either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been slightly disturbed by the idea that a fully
      living pig had popped into being, then vanished. He had wondered
      what would happen if you tried to Transfigure a generic human like
      McGonagall had Transfigured a generic pig, but had dismissed the
      experiment as hideously unethical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That pig had known how to stand up, so its brain had worked
      perfectly well. Could it have just been some sort of Platonic ideal
      pig? Probably not, since it would be perfectly possible to
      Transfigure, say, a pig with five legs... Had Harry been too
      dismissive of the idea that souls existed? The existence of
      Voldemort's Horcruxes was at least weak evidence for them, and it
      would at least explain why you couldn't Transfigure specific
      people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You couldn't Transfigure magical objects, but you could
      Transfigure something magical into something mundane, so the Stone
      should cure things like lycanthropy. If magic was based on a marker
      gene, that probably wouldn't make the wizard into a Muggle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was when Harry made the obvious connection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wizards were essentially Muggles with magic. They counted as
      magical creatures, but that was only a genetic thing. It would be
      entirely theoretically possible to use gene therapy to make a
      Muggle magical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You couldn't Transfigure the mundane into the arcane. You
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> Transfigure all of a Muggle's genes into the exact
      same boring old chemical DNA, but with the genetic marker for magic
      - the Blood of Atlantis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That would at a stroke extend people's lives massively, make
      them much, much safer... There were bound to be problems, but the
      number of lives saved would be enormous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no reason the Universe <em class="calibre8">couldn't</em> contain
      "I-win" buttons like the Philosopher's Stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry began to grin as the enormity of what had just happened
      hit him. He'd need to talk it over with Professor Quirrell, but
      things were looking good for world optimisation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his eyes and looked up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was looking at the tip of an outstretched wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wand fell away. "Harry?" the man whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Bellatrix?</em> was Harry's first, absurd thought. The man
      before Harry was tall and once-handsome, his beard unshaven and his
      hair long, but his eyes were dark and hollow, and he looked
      prematurely old, and thin - as though he'd been emaciated once, and
      never quite recovered. Yet his wand was perfectly steady, and he
      bore an air of danger and power that Harry had come to associate
      with powerful wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was when Harry's brain finally made the connection, the
      conversation with Hermione that felt a lifetime distant. Harry
      looked directly into the eyes of Sirius Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Do not react. You are an innocent little boy who has never
      seen a picture of Sirius Black before.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who- who are you?" Harry asked, tingeing his voice with
      nervousness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Harry," said the man, looking at him with strange, sad
      fondness. A note of confusion coloured Harry's mind. "You look just
      exactly like your father. But with your mother's eyes..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black trailed off, looking exceptionally uncomfortable, like he
      wanted to say something but had no idea how to. He sat down heavily
      in a padded chair that hadn't been there a moment ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You knew my father?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black pressed his bony hands over his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes. It was my fault, Harry, I'm sorry, I as good as killed
      them..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Can we ever have a conversation that's</em> not
      <em class="calibre8">cryptic?</em> asked Gryffindor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black took a deep breath. "My name is Sirius Black. I was your
      father's best friend, and he named me your godfather."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Within himself, Harry barely flinched at all. His parents hadn't
      been perfect, hadn't been omniscient, he knew that well enough. On
      the outside, he looked appropriately horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black winced. "I know, I know what they all think about me. I
      didn't do it, Harry, not deliberately." He pulled up his sleeve,
      revealing a bare arm. "I wasn't the one who showed Voldemort where
      your parents were hiding." His voice hardened. "It was Peter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," said Harry, "what?" Pettigrew was the one almost all the
      conspiracy theories blamed... it wasn't wrong just <em class="calibre8">because</em>
      the conspiracy theorists said it, in fact, if anything it was very
      weak evidence that Pettigrew really was to blame, but even
      so...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black sighed, and conjured a chair for Harry. "Peter is a
      Metamorphmagus, he can change how he looks, and he used that in the
      war. He was working as a spy, and he turned it against us." In the
      dim, non-magical lamplight, Black's skin looked grey. "He came to
      me, asked where James and Lily were hiding. Please, Harry,
      understand that Peter and I had been friends for years. I thought
      he would have died under the Cruciatus before telling Voldemort
      anything. Like a fool, I told him, and..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black's voice trailed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">OK, could this be genuine?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Complexity penalty</em>, said Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre8">The problem is
      that actors this good are rare... probably not that rare amongst
      Death Eaters, though...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, um, Mr. Black, how did you end up being blamed, then?"
      Innocent-Harry enquired tentatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just Sirius, Harry." Sirius withdrew a bar of Honeydukes'
      chocolate from his pocket and offered some of it it to Harry, who
      refused politely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James and Lily were killed, and I..." Black seemed to be
      struggling to get the words out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James and his family, they took me in - my own House disowned
      me because I wasn't stupid enough to hate Muggleborns. And Lily
      brought out the best in James, once he'd grown up a bit, she was
      like a sister to all of us. I don't know what else you've heard
      about them, Harry, but they really were some of the best people you
      could hope to meet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took a bite of chocolate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was feeling strangely warm, like he hadn't quite felt
      since that day in the hallway with Severus. <em class="calibre8">I'm tentatively
      saying genuine</em>, said Slytherin. <em class="calibre8">Perfect Occlumens...es?
      Occlumentes? Are rare, and this doesn't sound like a lie.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Motivated cognition,</em> said the Inner Critic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peter came to me, disguised as an Auror I knew fairly well. He
      said he'd tracked Peter to a Muggle neighbourhood. I was too angry
      and hurt to think straight, and I followed him. He'd kidnapped
      someone, fed them Polyjuice to look like Peter, bewitched them to
      shout about how I was a traitor. We were both Disillusioned, and he
      changed into me, dropped his Charm, and blew half the street apart
      before I had time to think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did the real Peter escape, then?" asked Harry
      sceptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stood up abruptly and blurred into a large black dog,
      then back again. "Your father, Peter and I were all Animagi."
      Sirius' expression grew distant, and wistful. "Have you met Remus,
      Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked carefully at him. "Remus is a werewolf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," said Harry. That explained a lot, actually - Mr. Lupin
      was a skilled wizard, and yet his robes were shabby and he drifted
      from one job to another; those scars on his face never faded.
      Werewolves were deadly even to some adult wizards, and unable to
      control their actions once transformed. They were also entirely
      harmless as long as they took Wolfsbane Potion once a month, which
      was reasonably cheap, and yet the Ministry didn't provide it for
      free to werewolves because people were stupid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We found that out about him by the end of our first year.
      Wolfsbane didn't exist at the time, so Dumbledore had put measures
      in place for him - the Hogwarts wards tracked him, and every month
      he came to this place," Sirius gestured around, "to transform
      safely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his eyebrows. "We're near Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. I don't know how your scaly little friend over there knew
      about it, but this is the Shrieking Shack in Hogsmeade. There's a
      loophole in the protective enchantments on Hogwarts. You can
      Portkey out through the Shack, but not in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That made sense. Hogwarts' grounds were big - it had all
      happened too quickly to notice at the time, but now that Harry
      looked back they'd come nowhere near the boundary of the wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remus used to keep all sorts of things as Portkeys - twigs,
      combs, , and he always panicked when we asked what they were."
      Sirius smiled fondly. "He honestly thought we'd abandon him, the
      prat. Instead, the three of us learned to become Animagi - your
      father was a stag, Harry. Werewolves aren't very aggressive towards
      other animals, so that way we could keep him company, and be an
      extra layer of security. We started calling ourselves the
      Marauders, the greatest pranksters Hogwarts had ever seen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius's eyes were sparkling. "Speaking of which, I heard about
      your little escapade with those bullies. Not bad, young Prongslet,
      but it doesn't measure up to the one where we got McGonagall to-
      well, I'll tell you another time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The smile vanished as though it had never been. "Anyway. Peter
      was a rat, which suited him down to the ground. When he blew the
      street apart and framed me, he changed forms and ran away just as
      the Aurors arrived."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smirked bitterly. "It was the second-best prank I've ever
      seen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence reigned while Harry tried to digest all of that. It...
      didn't <em class="calibre8">entirely</em> sound like something a real Death Eater
      would say, it was too <em class="calibre8">complex</em>, a hardened Dark Wizard
      would surely just claim they'd been Imperiused or tortured or
      something. That said, it had pulled his heartstrings perfectly,
      which was convenient.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something in Harry felt repulsed at that thought, and it
      occurred to him again that that might be how he spent the rest of
      his life - never quite convinced that a smile was just a smile.
      Harry glanced over at Professor Quirrell. Harry had inherited
      Riddle's thought patterns and some fragments of memory. Quirrell
      had inherited an input of Riddle's entire mind. In that moment,
      Harry thought he might have begun to understand how Monroe had felt
      on that cold October night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So our magnificent justice system threw me into Azkaban without
      a trial. They never even stopped to wonder why Lucius stood by and
      let that one happen. And then, one day, while I was sitting there
      happily losing my mind, Dumbledore broke me out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">OK, this is just silly</em>, said Slytherin. <em class="calibre8">It was
      plausible until now, but come on. I mean, conspiracy theories are
      all very well, but this is... what next? Were they rescued by, by
      Draco Malfoy in a Boeing 747? Did they melt through the steel walls
      of Azkaban with the jet</em> fuel<em class="calibre8">?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">When most people try to make things up, it doesn't sound
      like this,</em> said Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre8">A</em><em class="calibre8">nd unlikely things do
      happen. Shuffle a pack of cards, and it's probable that that
      permutation has never happened before...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would Dumbledore do that? How would he even know you were
      innocent?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently, Peter, the idiot, came to Hogwarts in his Animagus
      form, searching for some cursed object old snake-face had
      apparently hidden there. Peter was never very powerful. He might
      have been able to run away and live in another country, but it must
      have been a bit of a disappointment. He went from a warrior for the
      Dark Lord to a rat on the run, and he obviously decided to go back
      to his old ways."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned, a curiously canine expression. "Sadly for him,
      the Marauders' legacy was alive and well. Your friends the Weasley
      twins happened to show a lovely little map we'd all made to their
      big brother Bill, who noticed that his brother's rat was called
      Peter Pettigrew, and ran to Dumbledore. A couple of Memory Charms
      later, and Bill was in St. Mungo's, Peter was Confunded to turn
      into me, and I was free."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I quit,</em> said Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put his head in his hands. <em class="calibre8">They really ought to start
      paying me more for all this</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been horrible to do that to Bill... nothing like as bad
      as leaving someone in Azkaban, certainly, and Bill had recovered
      fully and, the twins had said, was now a curse-breaker for
      Gringotts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That seemed like an unusually happy ending, and Dumbledore had
      shown every indication of caring for his students. Could the entire
      story of Bill's psychosis be pure fabrication? That should get a
      complexity penalty, but Harry wasn't even sure that was valid when
      Dumbledore was involved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had been remarkably straightforward with Harry for an
      adult, and at that thought Harry's respect for him rose several
      notches. "Sirius... that whole story sounds..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter Pettigrew, by all accounts, had been smart. He wouldn't
      risk everything to run back into enemy territory -
      <em class="calibre8">literally</em> into the enemy castle - just to try to get some
      mysterious <em class="calibre8">thing</em>. On the other hand, Voldemort might well
      have left orders for his servants to try to retrieve Horcruxes
      after a given interval of time, just in case his creation didn't
      quite work as planned. Peter might have further supposed that some
      other Death Eaters had been given similar orders, and feared
      Voldemort's retribution if Peter had disobeyed orders...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius gave a bark of laughter. "You're telling me, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rubbed his forehead, then remembered that he was having a
      conversation with a man who was either a mass-murdering traitor or
      his caring godfather. "What have you been doing with yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sigh. "Well, the war was done, and Moony- sorry, Remus was the
      only friend I had left in the world, and he'd spent years thinking
      I was evil. I knew he'd never forgive me anyway, for what I told
      Peter." Sirius looked down at his robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was about to start talking about egocentric bias and how
      Remus Lupin wasn't the kind of person who would hold a grudge
      against someone for one stupid mistake, but then decided to shut
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius collected himself. "I ended up drifting back to
      Hogsmeade, and took over Honeydukes as 'Ambrosius Flume.'" Sirius
      gave an elaborate bow. "Sirius Black, ex-convict extraordinaire,
      mass-murdering Death Eater and purveyor of delicious sweets to
      children."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite himself, Harry snorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">OK. This is all starting to look like some kind of bizarre
      plot</em>, said Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Who could possibly benefit?</em> asked Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre8">And
      why make it this complex? And this... well, this?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That story just doesn't sound right. Pettigrew's plot was
      complicated and needed extremely precise timing, but it went off
      without a hitch. It's... it looks like what Professor Quirrell
      arranged in the corridor. It looks set up.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, as though to rid himself of the thought.
      "What are you doing here tonight?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "I live in Hogsmeade. The wards I put on this
      place when I was in school triggered for the first time in years,
      and I was curious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Who could possibly benefit from Peter Pettigrew framing
      Sirius Black, then being captured himself, then breaking Sirius out
      of Azkaban?</em> asked Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What happened as a result of that?</em> mused Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyone behind this whole thing would have to be unbelievably
      good, or cheating somehow. Suppose somebody needed Sirius
      completely out of the way temporarily, for some reason, but still
      had use for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What happened with Sirius out of the way?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, Sirius would have been Harry's legal guardian, and in his
      absence Dumbledore had become Harry's guardian.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore, who had given Harry to his parents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore, who "had some sort of foreknowledge".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore, who was more than powerful enough to fake the whole
      thing, to make the scheme work by brute force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore, who had a taste for bizarre, incomprehensible
      plots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore, who understood the phoenix's price more than well
      enough to leave a friend in Azkaban for a few years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stayed silent for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look," said Sirius. "I know it sounds strange, and you're
      probably right not to trust me. Merlin knows your parents shouldn't
      have. But I'm not a Death Eater, Harry, not in a million years.
      <em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A silver dog burst from the end of Sirius's wand, tail
      wagging.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Genuine or not,</em> <em class="calibre8">we</em> <em class="calibre8">still shouldn't trust
      him</em>, murmured Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rubbed his temples in a circular motion. He wasn't in any
      immediate danger. He could afford to take a minute to be tired and
      confused and elated and horrified and not thinking straight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was starting to wonder if the universe was deliberately
      messing with <em class="calibre8">him specifically</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening," came the dry voice of Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: clues about the Mirror puzzle, which I now realise
      was probably much too hard:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">1. Even Quirrell can't fool the Mirror. It's something
      he genuinely wants to do.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">2. It's something to do with the fact that the Stone
      (unlike in HPMOR) can perform otherwise-impossible feats of
      healing, up to and including, for instance, healing the
      Longbottoms.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">3. It involves a backdoor Dumbledore programmed into the
      Mirror, in case he or an ally, for whatever reason, desperately
      needed the Stone for some specific purpose. Dumbledore doesn't know
      what the Stone does. He has, however, read enough books to
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> seal away the Stone completely, especially when it
      comes to the most salient purpose that he has in mind.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
