<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 9: Shut Up And Multiply, Part Two, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: Shut Up And Multiply, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell was on the defensive, now. He had held off
      Baba Yaga and Perenelle before, but even he had his limits.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle was <em class="calibre8">more powerful</em> than he had been before. David
      Monroe had spent his decade alone in space planning new spells and
      rituals, consolidating his grasp of power, and now Riddle had
      somehow surpassed him despite having been conscious and sane for
      under a minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He <em class="calibre8">really</em> should have thought of this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd recognised, of course, that this plan would be absurdly
      risky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But "risk" meant very little to David Monroe, what with his
      Horcruxes and certain other special measures he'd taken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This had obviously all been set up in advance in some manner. He
      didn't have time to think who the mastermind might have been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Possessing Granger probably hadn't been part of the plan, so
      Riddle must have a backup body... and yes, Baba Yaga had drawn
      something from a hidden pocket and cast it to the ground, and a
      too-tall man's form lay still on the ground, glowing faintly blue.
      Breaking the possession would be pointless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an Anti-Apparition Jinx up now, which he
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> trivially break if he weren't, in fact, fighting for
      his life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle ran beneath him, inhuman speed more than making up for
      his lack of broomstick bones, and David <em class="calibre8">barely</em> deflected a
      wave of <em class="calibre8">wrongness</em> that turned space in on itself and
      sucked the magic out of the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore</em> wasn't this powerful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he made the obvious connection. Riddle had <em class="calibre8">somehow</em>
      gone to the Flamels and arranged this, and the price he'd asked
      for, in exchange for retrieving their Stone, was all their hoarded
      lore...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">David's wand was almost knocked out of his hand by the next wave
      of magic. He was tiring, <em class="calibre8">fast</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was under his Cloak, and if he had something up his
      sleeve, it wasn't helping David now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had no allies yet living who could meaningfully aid him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was wearing the True Cloak of Invisibility. He had
      broomsticks and emergency Portkeys. If all else failed, he was
      connected to the Horcruxes. The boy could look after himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Winning this battle was not on the table, but he'd planned for
      this eventuality, just in case, because there <em class="calibre8">was</em> no "too
      paranoid" when it came to Voldemort. He might be able to defeat the
      Dark Lord, if it came to a Second Wizarding War, so long as he
      still held the Philosopher's Stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Lose</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without warning, David shot up into the sky like a bullet from a
      gun, weaving airtight shields around himself, inclining to the side
      and out of the range of the Jinx, and finally vanished with a soft
      <em class="calibre8">pop</em> of Apparition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><span>OoOoO</span></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Dark Lord has returned. Professor Quirrell cannot stop
      him. He will take the Philosopher's Stone and tear apart everything
      you know. He has Hermione's body and the magic of a troll and
      unicorn. He has over a hundred Horcruxes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Solve</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">... Harry couldn't think of anything Professor Quirrell wouldn't
      already have thought of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What can I do that he can't? What can I do that he</em>
      wouldn't<em class="calibre8">?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Tom Riddle has a severe known bias: systematically failing
      to properly consider other people.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at his Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He closed his eyes and willed it to listen to him: <em class="calibre8">go to
      Professor Dumbledore and tell him this: the Dark Lord has returned.
      Come quickly, with help</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronus vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius seemed to have fallen to magical exhaustion, and Quirrell
      was fighting alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up and saw Professor Quirrell fly high, high into
      the sky and Disapparate, and his stomach sank. <em class="calibre8">No, no,
      no...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore burned into existence in all the fury of his
      wizardry, Snape, McGonagall, Bones and Moody about him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the Dark Lord turned and <em class="calibre8">blasted</em> him with a curse
      that broke Dumbledore's rapid counterspell with a mighty crack, and
      Dumbledore stumbled back with his face showing raw shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">THINK!</em> Harry screamed at his brain. Quirrell had taken
      the Stone and fled, but if Harry left now, he would leave four
      people to die - and maybe Dumbledore too, if Voldemort and Baba
      Yaga and Perenelle combined could overcome the wielder of the Elder
      Wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Order of the Phoenix fanned out, setting themselves behind
      Dumbledore, raising their wands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord held his wand casually in Hermione's hand,
      smirking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was foolish of you to come here tonight, <em class="calibre8">Albus</em>,"
      said Tom Riddle with Hermione Granger's voice, in an entirely
      uncaring tone that Hermione herself had never once used.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore might have been mistaken for a statue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's lips curled into a smile, and Voldemort gestured to
      the two at his side. "Your friends the <em class="calibre8">Flamels</em> were
      <em class="calibre8">very</em> forthcoming with their secrets, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore did break, then, and his gaze flicked between Baba
      Yaga and Perenelle with a terrible comprehension, and the Dark Lord
      laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was reminded horribly of the feeling when <em class="calibre8">he'd</em>
      finally put two and two together and guessed that Professor
      Quirrell was Lord Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nihil supernum," said Dumbledore, and nothing more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><span>OoOoO</span></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva stood beneath the moonlight, keeping steady control over
      her breathing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle did have a flair for the dramatic - <em class="calibre8">unless that's
      another mask</em> - but that wasn't the only reason for this
      delay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most offensive magic made some sort of sign, some sound or light
      or tangible sense of magic that <em class="calibre8">might</em> actually be
      significant in a duel this close. There might be other subtleties
      to consider, with the sort of Interdicted magic Albus used.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed hopeless. Minerva didn't understand what was
      happening, but if the Flamels had joined Voldemort she doubted even
      Albus could triumph.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I see you still look to others to save you.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">David Monroe had said those words to her, and after the useless
      indignation had faded, she'd mulled them over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What can</em> I <em class="calibre8">do, personally, to make a
      difference?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Transfiguration</em>, came the obvious answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva hesitated. Using Transfiguration in combat was,
      was...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was significantly less dangerous than letting Lord Voldemort
      live.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She couldn't match Albus in skill, but perhaps there was
      something even he wouldn't think of...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could not afford - no, the entire <em class="calibre8">world</em> could not
      afford for her to be squeamish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked hard at the enemy, and tried to think like Harry
      Potter, look for some Hufflepuff bones to sharpen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was shielded already, naturally, nothing outside the
      shield. That wouldn't stop anything Dumbledore cast, but it would
      slow down lesser magic and mundane forces. Albus Dumbledore was no
      pureblood supremacist - he had heard of such things as sniper
      rifles, and Voldemort had adapted accordingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Flamels, then. Albus had told her they were not accustomed
      to interference, knowledgeable but lacking the insight that was
      essential for a powerful wizard or witch to make best use of
      eldritch lore. They were certainly not used to combat, if Albus had
      ever known them truly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was no lie. Perenelle Flamel was fidgeting
      ever-so-slightly, hadn't even removed her cloak yet, the sweeping
      fabric trailing far away from her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was powerful and deadly. But she was <em class="calibre8">not</em> a Battle
      Mage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva considered the form and substance of Perenelle's cloak,
      the interwoven cloth fibres that composed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could theoretically take one of those threads and pull it
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One couldn't Transfigure part of an object - at least, she
      couldn't - but one could Transfigure an object that so happened to
      be touching another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Like, say, one of the threads of a cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva extended her magic, steadily, subtly, whilst Voldemort
      taunted Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord would certainly notice such an... <em class="calibre8">unusual</em>
      attack, sense the trace of magic. But a witch who hadn't duelled in
      half a millennium?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The time taken to Transfigure something into a target is a
      function of its volume and that of the target form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva Transfigured a thread of the cloak into a loop of razor
      wire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Beneath the moonlight glints a tiny fragment of silver, a
      fraction of a line</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Minerva Transfigured the loop into another, identical one,
      one hundredth of an inch across.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">(black robes, falling)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Blood spills out in litres</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva cried <em class="calibre8">Finite</em> and ended the magic, even as
      Dumbledore and Voldemort clashed together in a burst of red and
      green light, and somewhere in the background a too-adult child's
      voice incanted <em class="calibre8">Frigideiro</em>, and Baba Yaga bellowed and
      turned her staff on Minerva McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had seen the blonde witch fall, and only hesitated the
      barest fraction of a second before casting the Cooling Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Killing Curses streamed from Baba Yaga's staff towards Professor
      McGonagall, but they burst into nothingness against Harry's
      Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's wand was a blur of grey, and he was flying low over
      the ground, held up by Fawkes. He was throwing everything he had at
      the Dark Lord, but he was too busy trying to shield the others from
      Voldemort, Harry could see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody was already stumbling, and Bones didn't look much
      better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort gestured, and a burst of balls of fire hissed at all
      four Order members. Dumbledore evoked a wall of purple light that
      sustained the impacts, but was sent staggering away by the bolt of
      sickly yellow that drilled through it. Dumbledore began to say
      something, but the infant spell shattered under a beam from
      Voldemort's wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baba Yaga was holding off all four of Dumbledore's allies
      together. Battlefield control, Professor Quirrell had once said,
      was a Battle Magic speciality, and Voldemort exemplified it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What deadly powers can I access? What force multiplier can I
      use?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort didn't have his broomstick bones. If he didn't have
      the Order to protect, the mobility afforded to Dumbledore by Fawkes
      could help... but it probably wasn't <em class="calibre8">enough</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...And if the Order left, Voldemort and Baba Yaga could both
      concentrate force on Dumbledore. <em class="calibre8">Defeated in detail.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had recognised its dark side for what it was, and he was
      employing every last instinct of Riddle's to find some weapon to
      bring to bear on his progenitor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With Voldemort's aid, Baba Yaga had cut off Snape and McGonagall
      from Bones and Moody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry realised with a jolt of panic what was going to happen an
      instant before it did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A curse from Baba Yaga winged towards Professor McGonagall,
      passed cleanly through Harry's Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape was already there in front of her, a Shield Charm on his
      lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Voldemort leapt up, five metres or more, over Dumbledore's
      head, and ripped away Snape's shielding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Potions Master made no noise as he fell, a hole punched
      cleanly through his chest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his wand and formed once more the words of the
      Cooling Charm-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Voldemort blasted Snape's body to ash and dust, because as
      far as Albus Dumbledore knew, a dead body wasn't worth worrying
      about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><span>OoOoO</span></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It should have had more gravity, that moment. Severus Snape was
      dark and brooding, complicated and mysterious. He wasn't supposed
      to just <em class="calibre8">die</em> like that. It just wasn't appropriate. His
      death, if it happened at all, should be poignant and dramatic. He
      should have leapt in front of Professor McGonagall and pushed her
      to safety, not sort of awkwardly ended up in the path of the curse
      meant for her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He should have looked finally at peace in death, maybe whispered
      Lily Evans' name one last time, not collapsed in an undignified
      heap and then been cremated by Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord was not stupid. He had seen what Harry had done
      when Perenelle died, and spared a curse to stop Harry from playing
      the party Cleric.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could see it all unfolding. Perhaps the Order could still
      flee, but he didn't see how. Even if they could, Voldemort wasn't
      playing games any more. <em class="calibre8">Magical Britain might not have hours
      this time, let alone years.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had never known Snape well, but he had given his life and
      his happiness in service against Voldemort, stood for decades
      against the darkness, for all his flaws.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Intent to kill.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the cold light of Tom Riddle's dark intelligence, the
      battlefield faded into a series of possible weapons, the emotional
      shock of Snape's death muted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What is unusual about this place? What won't he anticipate?
      What can kill Lord Voldemort?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's voice in his head replied: <em class="calibre8">some sort of
      truly greater, insurmountable magical effect, such that the world
      would be forever without the Dark Lord...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What is lost to Dark Rituals cannot be regained.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter froze in horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why, yes, yes there was something here that could kill the Dark
      Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord who was <em class="calibre8">in Hermione Granger's body.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Please, no...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Overruled</em>, spoke the voice in his mind of... of Albus
      Dumbledore and Professor Quirrell and Mad-Eye Moody and Draco
      Malfoy and Slytherin and Gryffindor and Ravenclaw and even
      Hufflepuff and Hermione Granger herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But they <em class="calibre8">weren't</em> voices in his mind, they were all just
      him, just different ways he could think, and there was just...
      simply no way that Harry could think that gave him a different
      answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached down and touched his wand to the sacrificial
      circle Quirrell had drawn. The Philosopher's Stone had left it not
      just permanent but <em class="calibre8">nonmagical</em>. Breaking the shape of the
      circle wouldn't break the magic, because there <em class="calibre8">was</em> no
      magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was empty and sick and he thought he might be crying, but he
      wasn't trembling, and his mind was still clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had been his best friend from the very beginning. His
      <em class="calibre8">first</em> friend, in fact. He had gone to extreme lengths to
      protect her. He had looked at Lucius Malfoy and the Dementors of
      Azkaban and Death itself, and refused to let any of them touch
      Hermione Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he was <em class="calibre8">not</em> the only person who felt like that about
      someone else. How many people would die, if it came to a Second
      Wizarding War? How many would feel exactly how Harry had?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's not an apt comparison</em>, protested some final part
      of him, weakly. <em class="calibre8">Those people might still be retrievable, they
      aren't going to be SACRIFICED TO DARK RITUALS-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Shut up and multiply.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter knelt beneath the moonlight, tears streaming down
      his face, and began to Transfigure the sacrificial circle around
      Hermione Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><strong class="calibre7">OoOoO</strong></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note: If you have any ideas for how Harry could
      get Hermione out of this, I would very much like to hear
      them.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
