<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>10. Nightmares of Azkaban - Nightmares of Azkaban, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="10. Nightmares of Azkaban"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: This was inspired by LessWrong's Harry Potter and
      the Methods of Rationality, and set in that universe, but I
      strongly suspect it's AU. That said, I <em class="calibre8">highly</em> recommend
      you check out that fic, as it's quite possibly the best fic I've
      read. Ever.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer: I don't own this twice over-not only do I
      not own Harry Potter, but I <em class="calibre8">also</em> don't own Harry Potter
      the Methods of Rationality.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Nightmares of Azkaban</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">You've been to Azkaban before. Only once, but that was more than
      enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You were just a trainee, then (now, of course, you're a full
      junior Auror, even if you've only been here a couple of months),
      and you were in the apprenticeship period, trailing Auror
      Greenaway, a grizzled old man who looked older than you knew he
      was—but then, that's not atypical for veterans of You-Know-Who's
      War.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You weren't delivering a prisoner, thank God, but only bringing
      some information over. You were having trouble remembering why the
      wards wouldn't just let you Floo over, and you glanced nervously at
      the creaky rowboat; you weren't in any danger, of course, any more
      than the strong winds of the Atlantic Ocean were breaking through
      the powerful warming charms that Auror Greenaway had placed on the
      both of you before you set off—but you're not Wizardborn, and felt
      that they <em class="calibre8">should</em>, and from time to time you'd shiver in an
      imaginary wind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then you got close to the island and felt the Dementors, and
      that was <em class="calibre8">real</em> cold, cold like you'd never felt before and
      hoped like hell you'll never feel again, and all of a sudden you
      forgot about imaginary winds off the Atlantic. You were stuck
      frozen, unable to think, all while Auror Greenaway handed the
      package over, and you followed him like an automaton until you were
      out of the range of the Dementors once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was when you leaned over the side of the rowboat and threw
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Greenaway offered you some water from his canteen. You
      rinsed your mouth and spat over the side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then you started to talk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You can't remember, now, exactly <em class="calibre8">what</em> you said, but it
      was about the Dementors, and hope, and sickness, and right and
      wrong. Auror Greenaway listened for a while, then he put up his
      hand. Then slowly, gravely, he recited to you some of the crimes of
      certain prisoners in Azkaban, what it was they'd done to be locked
      up in there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't exactly make you feel better. Actually, you threw up
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You rinsed and spit once more. You still felt sick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a while, everything was silent except the winds off the
      ocean. Then you said: "But sir, what if someone innocent ends up in
      Azkaban? Or what if—not everyone's like the Death Eaters. Sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Greenaway patted you on the shoulder and said in a gruff
      voice, "We take care of that, lad."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">You found out how a few months later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You'd been a junior Auror for about three weeks, then. You were
      partnered with Auror Greenaway, long-term now; it wasn't uncommon
      for ex-apprentices to be partnered with the Aurors who had overseen
      their apprenticeship, unless there was a real clash of
      personalities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a solo interview. Not your first; Auror Greenaway wasn't
      like those senior Aurors who would, as Auror Greenaway put it,
      coddle their junior partners. He'd had you doing interviews since
      the day you'd passed the exam. He'd have probably done the same
      thing when you were still a trainee, actually, if it weren't
      against regs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The interview was pretty basic. The interviewee, a man by the
      name of Gerald Jones, was by far the most likely suspect in the
      murder on an unpleasant Knockturn Alley-type, though at the time
      you hadn't known just how unpleasant. He'd been seen fleeing the
      crime, and the Priori Incantato cast on his wand had shown a
      Reducto, the spell used to kill the victim. He'd been unable to
      account for his whereabouts at the time of the murder, too. In
      other words, things were looking pretty bad for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir," you said patiently, sitting across from the suspect, "can
      you please tell me what you were doing at the scene of the
      crime?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you," said Jones tightly. "I was at the pub."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir," you said again, "no one remembers you there, and
      witnesses place you at the scene of the crime."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took a straight look at you and cracked, tears beginning to
      run down his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was threatening my wife," he said, voice so rough and low
      you could barely hear him. "He was making me give him money. Then
      yesterday he wanted me to steal something for him." A pause. "I
      said I wouldn't. I said I'd go to the Aurors. He said he'd rape my
      wife! And Annie! She's only three!" He reachesd for something in
      his coat. You don't react; it can't be his wand, they took it from
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In fact it was a picture of him and his wife and kid, and your
      blood froze, because you <em class="calibre8">know</em> them: that was Cordelia, she
      was a few years ahead of you at Hogwarts, and you'd run into her
      the other day and she'd had her daughter with her, whose name, yes,
      had been Annie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You were pretty sure this was a tactic to manipulate you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was still working.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jones must have seen something in you face, because he added,
      "You have to believe me, sir!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Merlin help you, you did. "Why didn't you come to us any
      sooner?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked down, then back up. "I didn't have any evidence,"
      Jones said, quiet now—<em class="calibre8">ashamed</em>, you thought. "And he said
      if I did, he'd know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former, at least, was true; there wasn't any evidence, in
      the dead man's home or at his office. The Aurors had gone over them
      with a fine-toothed comb; they'd known he was an unsavoury
      character, and they'd wanted to find some evidence on the man's
      now-former colleagues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You stared at him, feeling sick. <em class="calibre8">You</em> believed him, but
      without evidence...the man already had an Aggravated Assault on his
      record, the stupid kind people get when they've drunk too much on
      Harry Potter day. The courts wouldn't be kind to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please excuse me, sir," you told him. "I'll be back
      shortly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then you went to find Auror Greenaway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You told him the story from start to finish, and you were pretty
      sure you sounded as desperate as you felt. "We can't just send him
      to the courts, sir!" You added. "They'll send him to Azkaban! You
      know they will! And he was just protecting his family!" Auror
      Greenaway looked at you steady, and after a minute you looked down
      and added, "I still have nightmares about the Dementors, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded. "So do we all, laddie." Then he sighed. "This story
      of yours. Is there any evidence?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You shook your head, then opened your mouth to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held up his hand palm out, stopping you before you could get
      a word out. "But you believe him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right," said Auror Greenaway. "I trust your judgment.
      Here's what we do..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two hours later, you and Auror Greenaway were returning Mr.
      Jones his wand. "Very sorry for the inconvenience, sir," said Auror
      Greenaway. "Here's your wand back, and have a nice day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jones was gaping at you. "But I confessed!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No you didn't," said Auror Greenaway. "you didn't confess, your
      wand didn't have <em class="calibre8">Reducto</em>, and our witnesses must have been
      mistaken. Possibly they were Obliviated by the real murderer; rare,
      but it does happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bu—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look," said Auror Greenaway. "Do you <em class="calibre8">want</em> to go to
      Azkaban?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mutely, Jones shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Then I'll <em class="calibre8">thank</em> you to be <em class="calibre8">leaving
      now</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without saying another word, Jones took his wand and left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few moments later, Auror Greenaway broke it. "Do you remember,
      lad, after Azkaban, when I told you we took care of things like
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were right. We can't let a man like that go to
      Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What if I'm wrong?</em> you wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But you didn't say anything.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Your first thought on hearing that Bellatrix Black escaped from
      her cell in Azkaban is not 'good'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Your first thought is, "Oh, <em class="calibre8">crap</em>," and then you're off
      to Azkaban, along with Greenway and the other three dozen Aurors
      who were in the Department when the news came, and then you're far
      too busy to think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That night, you have another nightmare. It's the same one you
      always have, about Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You know you used to have more nightmares then just this one,
      but not anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's not something you'd normally think. It's probably the
      result of visiting Azkaban again, and the stress, and the nightmare
      about the bloody Dementors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But just for a moment, contemplating the though of someone,
      <em class="calibre8">any</em>one, escaping the horror of Azkaban, you think of
      Bellatrix Black's escape and you think, <em class="calibre8">good</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You're pretty sure that later, you're going to be <em class="calibre8">really
      horrified</em> that you thought that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For now, the idea of someone out of the Dementors' reach is
      enough to lure you back to sleep.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
