<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 12: HP vs Dolores Umbridge (Pt 2), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: HP vs Dolores Umbridge (Pt 2)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Harry Potter vs. Dolores Umbridge (Pt. 2)</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stormed into Dumbledore's office, summons in hand, and slammed
      it down upon the old man's desk. "I don't care what Umbridge has
      told you! Pensieve memories can be faked, and everyone knows that
      Veritaserum doesn't work on sociopaths."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore remained calm, a trait which was as unwavering as it
      was frustrating. "Mr. Potter –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have done nothing, and I will testify to this under
      Veritaserum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix screeched in irritation, and I screeched back to
      establish dominance. Dumbledore said, "Mr. Potter, this meeting
      does not concern Professor Umbridge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," I said. "That's good because I haven't done anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He offered me a lemon drop. "Yes, I know. You were quite vocal
      about that earlier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I spoke slowly. "I don't suppose you're planning to teach me
      Dark Magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His eyes twinkled. "No, I'm afraid not. Although Miss Weasley
      did enlighten me about your unique definition for the term."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I would have to talk with her about meddling in my affairs
      without my consent. I made a note of that and then promptly forgot
      it when Dumbledore said, "Have you noticed anything strange
      lately?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sank into the seat in front of Dumbledore's desk. "Well, the
      ghosts <em class="calibre8">have</em> been whispering among themselves a lot. Do you
      think they're rebelling?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that likely has to do with the Bloody Baron's deathday. I
      was referring to whether <em class="calibre8">you</em> have experienced something
      strange lately. Odd visions, voices, urges. Anything of that sort,"
      he prompted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I considered his question. Every few nights, I dreamt that I was
      once again Lord Voldemort, ordering and crucioing my Death Eaters.
      Just this morning, I'd missed the entirety of Professor Flitwick's
      lecture because I was too caught up in daydreaming that I was a
      man-eating snake. And I'd nearly taken Ron's head off during a
      recent meeting of our new study group when I felt a sudden and
      inexplicable flash of rage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For quite possibly the first time in my life, I answered Albus
      Dumbledore honestly. "Nothing out of the ordinary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He frowned. "Nothing at all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head, jumping a bit when the phoenix landed on the
      desk in front of me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that a problem?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, it's very good, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I peered into his eyes. "Really? You seem sort of disappointed
      about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore spoke gravely. "I had suspected that your scar might
      connect you to Voldemort, allowing you some sort of window into his
      mind. If this had been the case, then his rebirth would have caused
      certain side effects to both of you. It seems I was wrong. That I
      was incorrect is almost certainly for the better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," I said, yanking my hand away from the phoenix's bite, "I
      don't suppose I can leave now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore waved me towards the door. "Go ahead. Though I do
      hope that Professor Umbridge will have no cause to pay me a visit
      today…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," I scoffed. "I've done nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix watched me leave with black, judging eyes.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius!" I cried, waving my minion over to take a seat in front
      of my (previously his) desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius, startled, said, "My lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that is who I am," I said, "How are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius raised a trembling hand. "I'm still in pain, and I can't
      do any paperwork until the nerves heal…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, the crucioing," I said with a knowing nod. "Sorry about
      that. I had a flash of sudden and inexplicable rage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He frowned. Really, I expected him to be more cheerful since I'd
      gotten that Hair-Growth Potion. I shrugged off his ungratefulness.
      "I had the weirdest dream yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius dully asked, clearly struggling to hide his curiosity,
      "Was that during the nap you took after crucioing me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I beamed. "Yes, that's the one! I was in History of Magic, and
      you were there. And a Weasley. And then we started dueling in the
      back of the classroom, but Binns didn't stop us because he didn't
      notice. It angered me greatly. Do you know why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius frowned, smoothing down his hair with a shaking hand.
      "Because you didn't get to crucio anyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I laughed. "No, no. I just can't stop thinking: Why didn't I do
      that when I was still a student? Binns probably wouldn't have
      noticed. Oh, before I forget. One of your peacocks was being
      insubordinate, so I killed it. Dobby promised to have it ready for
      dinner I'm not actually certain if people eat peacocks, but I
      imagine the taste of victory will override any unpleasant
      flavor."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nibbled on the tip of her quill, looking at her
      newly-purchased planner. "This would be a lot easier if we didn't
      have to work around your detentions with Umbridge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I consider it recreation at this point," I said, "and we're
      making real progress. She's finally acknowledged that she has no
      idea how to deal with boggarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pinched her lips. "<em class="calibre8">Why</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She can't even get the one out from under her bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She jotted something down in the margin. "Do I even want to know
      how you got it under there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lemon drops," I said. "I'm thinking I'll work on werewolves
      next."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't put Professor Lupin under Umbridge's bed," she
      sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking Snape, though I suppose Lupin <em class="calibre8">would</em> be
      the better choice. He can deal with the boggart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry James Po–"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A loud boom echoed through the Room of Requirement, and we
      watched, stunned, as a dummy slammed into the wall and fell into
      pieces. Its head landed in my batch of Felix Felicis with a sickly
      hiss and a string of black smoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, Hermione said, "Ron? What type of spell was that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A stunner," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," she said. "You, um, you might want to put a little less
      energy into it next time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Or…you could not do that."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Meow! Mew! Rrrowr! Purrrr…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was completely ridiculous. Kitten plates covered Umbridge's
      wall, constantly mewling and fighting with each other. I usually
      took my detentions in the DADA classroom, but it hadn't yet
      recovered from my last detention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I turned away from my parchment and a quill that used actual ink
      and towards Umbridge, who was pretending to grade papers but
      primarily watching me fail to write lines. I said, "It doesn't
      matter how many kittens you put on your wall. No one will ever
      believe you have a soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That might have seemed a bit harsh. Still, I'd been fighting a
      strange urge to crucio someone all day (preferably Malfoy), and I
      needed to vent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She raised an arm, pink sleeve swinging perilously close to my
      inkwell. "Well, I hardly think –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the pink!" I cried. "Wait, of course. You're still using
      the methods that allowed you to appear normal during your
      childhood. Unfortunately, the kittens and pink and crooning voice
      only further alienate you from your current peers. You're
      sixty-seven, and it's creepy now…which reminds me: Happy
      birthday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge's face was beginning to match her robes. She smiled
      tightly. "Are you lying again, Mr. Potter? Tut, tut. It looks like
      you –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait! Before you say anything else, I am obligated to inform
      you that, if you assign me any more detentions, I will technically
      be your apprentice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Detention" – she smiled sweetly – "A week's worth."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Really, Ronald!" Hermione exclaimed as we exited the Great
      Hall. We were stopped short, however, when Draco Malfoy, along with
      Crabbe and Goyle, stepped in front of us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy," I said, nodding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter," he said. "Still dragging along the Weasel and your pet
      Mudblood, eh? I don't suppose you've rethought my offer for more
      <em class="calibre8">fitting</em> companionship?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really. Have you reconsidered being my minion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron laughed at the suggestion, while Hermione nearly growled.
      She had been getting rather territorial lately. Between her and
      Ginevra, it was a wonder I'd recruited so many new minions this
      year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy snapped, "I would never –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We clearly had nothing to discuss, since we were once again at a
      standstill, so I continued walking. Ron nearly tripped, distracted
      by his shuddering laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy gaped, "Hey! Get back here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I turned around, eyebrow quirked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't just leave," the blond said. Right, he hadn't gotten
      around to talking about his father or his money yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron crossed his arms menacingly, though Malfoy's hulking minions
      diminished the affect. The redhead said, "You bloody well bet we
      can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, you <em class="calibre8">poor</em> Weasel, that is no longer allowed
      under High Inquisitor Umbridge's rules," Malfoy said. "Only two
      students can be together outside of classes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three's more than that," Crabbe put in helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy smirked. "So you'll have to split up, or I'll dock points
      from Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glared, hand flying to her prefect's badge. "Prefects
      are not allowed to dock points from other houses! It's a clear
      conflict of interest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten points for arguing with a member of Umbridge's new
      Inquisitorial Squad, who, by the way, can take as many points as
      they like" – he raised a hand at Ron's opening mouth – "And are
      exempt from the three-person rule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I knew he wouldn't stay independent for long. Malfoys were born
      to minion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy turned to me triumphantly. "I'll give fifty to Slytherin
      if you agree to an alliance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm rooting for Gryffindor now," I said regretfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bollocks," he muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How'd you even get on this squad, Malfoy?" Ron asked. "I don't
      remember hearing anything about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's very exclusive. My father –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, that's two for two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sweetly cut in, "So you bought your place, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy scowled. "Umbridge just prefers a better quality of
      wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, my apologies," she crooned. "Nepotism. I can't say I'm
      surprised. That's how you get everything else: Your place on the
      Quidditch team, your spot as a prefect –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jealous, Granger?" Malfoy asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all. I can't even <em class="calibre8">imagine</em> how exhausting it
      must be to realize that you simply aren't good enough for anything"
      – a very Dumbledore gleam lit her eyes – "That must be the reason
      you're in Slytherin, too. After all, you don't exactly fit the
      requirements very well. You're simple-minded, unsubtle, and
      unambitious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Typical Hufflepuff traits," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione ignored me, too focused on the kill. "You're Pureblood,
      I suppose, presuming your mother didn't – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy trembled with rage. "Shut up, Mudblood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He threw the first spell, but Hermione was the one that got a
      detention. Admittedly, that wasn't as unreasonable as it might have
      seemed. She could be positively vicious when aimed at an acceptable
      target.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione slammed the Room of Requirement's door shut, startling
      me from target practice (with Neville as the target).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," I asked, shooting a spell over my shoulder. "How was
      detention?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," she hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "You used the charm I showed you, right? Because, if
      you didn't, then that would be really dumb, and I don't take you
      for some sort of Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the distance, a Hufflepuff blew the head off of a dummy.
      Hermione said, "Yes, I used the glove."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did she bleed?" I prodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Harry, she bloody well bled!" she shouted. "And then
      Malfoy waited outside to take more points for injuring a teacher
      because he's a great, big git!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stormed towards the library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's got her knickers in a twist?" Ron asked, absentmindedly
      shooting a curse at Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "I don't…Wait, never mind. I think I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I wandered over to the library's table, smiling uneasily as
      Hermione glared up from her hastily-acquired book. She said,
      "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right. How to approach this? I'd never had someone willing to
      have this discussion with me when I was a confused, pubescent boy.
      "Hermione…You are a beautiful, brilliant young woman, and it's
      natural for you to have certain urges."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyes widened. "Harry, you do not have to –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I forged on. "You might look around at some of your classmates
      who are wealthy and attractive, and want – very badly – to crush
      them beneath your heel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked a few times in quick succession. "I have to
      admit, that was absolutely not where I thought this conversation
      was going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smiled, placing a hand on her shoulder. "When you see someone
      like Malfoy, all you want is for him to kneel down and kiss your
      robes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I don't want that. That would be horrible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "No, see, you're making this a good and evil
      thing. It's not. This is about power. He has it, and you want him
      to give you that power and suffer for keeping it from you for so
      long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pouted. "Honestly, I just want him to stop bothering me and
      possibly never speak again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he was your minion, you could make him do those things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took a deep breath, then sighed gustily. "I don't think
      you understand this, so I'm going to explain it as simply as
      possible. He's a git, and I don't like him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course he is. He's only fifteen. One day, Malfoy is going to
      realize just how much he wants to be your minion, and he is going
      to feel <em class="calibre8">so</em> embarrassed about all this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione groaned, burying her face in her hands.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I threw the doors open, storming into Lucius's Great Hall…formal
      dining room…ballroom…long, high-ceilinged room which made my voice
      echo menacingly. I declared, "Welcome, my dearest, most
      <em class="calibre8">loyal</em> servants!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I suddenly noticed the nearly empty room. Lucius clutched his
      snake-headed cane tightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus, meanwhile, remained stoic. I'm still not entirely
      certain that he experiences emotion. I'd never found any while
      using Legilimency.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I scowled. "Where is the rest of the inner circle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indisposed, my lord," Severus drawled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What could possibly be more important than attending to me?" I
      snapped. "That idiot Crabbe doesn't even have a job. I could kill
      him for this insult."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smirked. "Actually, you did kill him. Several months
      ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How forward-thinking of me. I settled onto my new throne, made
      with a pile of Malfoy portraits. To my delight, they wailed every
      time I sat down. "What about Wilkes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He died during the last war," Severus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stroked my chin. "Zabini?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius anxiously petted his hair, as he often does. "His wife
      got him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I gripped my wand, lazily pointing it at Lucius. "Rosier?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond fell to his knees in a grovel. "You killed him an hour
      ago, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wait, did I? "I'm well aware of that. I was testing you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus watched me impassively. "Of course, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "What about Bellatrix, then? I'm quite certain I didn't
      kill her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She is in Azkaban," Severus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh…" – I tapped my wand against my chin thoughtfully –
      "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You likely recall that she is a Death Eater," Severus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Plenty of people are Death Eaters," I said. "They aren't in
      Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes," Lucius said, "but Bellatrix admitted to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix never struck me as a Hufflepuff," I muttered, "Why
      would she be so stupid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There wasn't much point in denying her involvement," Snape
      drawled. "When they caught her, she was busy torturing the
      Longbottoms into insanity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. She did always like that…So, she's been in there
      for…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thirteen years," Lucius said helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I leaned back on my throne, smiling as the Malfoy ancestors
      groaned underneath me. "That's pretty long. We should do something
      about that."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione received the morning Prophet, eyes immediately skimming
      the byline for Rita Skeeter. She soon relaxed, evidence that the
      front page articles were written by someone else. Satisfied, the
      girl turned her gaze to the headline and cursed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'm not sure if she's ever done that before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You alright, 'Mione?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She said, "There's been a jailbreak at Azkaban. All the Death
      Eaters have escaped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron began to smile, then frowned, then settled for his usual
      confused expression. "Well, that's good, right? Yeah, a bunch of
      Death Eaters are probably going to attack us. More than usual, I
      mean, but at least now they can't say that You-Know-Who isn't
      back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione crumpled the paper, hissing, "They're blaming it on
      Sirius Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, to be fair, it could have been Black," I said. "He hasn't
      tried to kill me in months, which just doesn't seem like him. He
      must be plotting <em class="calibre8">something</em> in his spare time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, this is serious!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned through a mouthful of mashed-up toast, "Or, it cuh
      be <em class="calibre8">Shirius</em>. Y'know, like Shirius Bl-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Not the time. Also, finish chewing. Some of the
      absolute worst people from the last war could be coming here: The
      Mulcibers, Augustus Rookwood, Hagrid, Bellatrix Lestrange…Harry,
      are you even listening to me?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I startled back into reality. "Oh, yes, sorry. Just had a sudden
      feeling of déjà vu."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione huffed, shoving away her half-eaten breakfast to make
      room for a book on hexes.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I stopped by the Room of Requirement after detention,
      disappointed to find Neville collapsed on the ground. "Neville, why
      aren't you running?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't," he panted. "Too much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm trying to make you a legend here," I said. "I thought you
      wanted that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess," Neville muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why are you giving up already?" I asked, feeling a bit
      like Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's, uh, not helping me with my magic," Neville said. "All
      this running around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I scowled. Neville had completely misinterpreted this offer, but
      everyone now knew that he was my student and I had no intention of
      failing now. "I never said anything about magic. Just being great.
      Also killing evil wizards. Or good wizards, depending on whether
      you decide to join up with Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra, who was helping a Ravenclaw with his spellwork,
      shouted, "Hermione's studying right now, but she said that – if you
      said that – I should mention that she isn't evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Regardless of Hermione's lies," I said. "Physical prowess is a
      rarely used but surprisingly effective tool for destroying your
      enemies. Most wizards cannot handle close-quarters combat. Even the
      most incompetent wizard can excel if he's good with a sword or
      something. Just look at Godric Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville blinked. "Oh. Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was nice to tell someone something without Hermione around to
      complain about fact-checking or non-existent sources or common
      sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He frowned, standing. "Why don't you exercise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that's because I'm actually good at magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville swayed on his feet, looking miserable again. I'm not
      sure why. I'd done a perfectly good job cheering him up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A quiet voice said, "Don't worry, Neville. Wrackspurts are
      attracted to the pollen on your clothes. You would probably be fine
      in a colder climate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I beamed, whirling around to find Luna Lovegood. "You're back! I
      presume you got Ginevra's apology?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded. "Yes, she seemed very sincere about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good, good," I said while Neville trudged away from us. "Is
      there anything else I can help you with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've just been wondering…Are you a Department of Mysteries
      spy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned, curbing the urge to build my legend. "Why do you
      think that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would expect Harry Potter to get special training. But they
      wouldn't want anyone to know about that, so they sent a spy in his
      place. Also, you're friends with a lot of important people: the
      Weasleys, the smartest girl in our generation, the son of
      Voldemort's right-hand man –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius Black had a son?" Was it Ron? It was probably Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I mean Draco Malfoy. Although I suppose he could be Black's
      son," she said thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he's not my friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" – Luna hummed to herself – "There's also the
      Longbottom heir and the Quibbler editor's daughter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I legitimately have no idea which one that is," I admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stared at me with wide, pale eyes. "Me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you're not a spy, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled. "Of course not. Hermione's the spy. The Department
      of Mysteries wouldn't send two spies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna pouted. "Harry, Hermione isn't a spy for the Department of
      Mysteries. That would be silly."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hardly think this is necessary," McGonagall said, lips
      thinned with annoyance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge merrily followed the other woman into her office. She
      tittered. "Now, now, Minerva, I observed all of the werewolf's
      career advice sessions. We wouldn't want any insinuations of
      favoritism, now would we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That werewolf is my colleague," McGonagall spat. "Also, that's
      just a silly rumor among the students. They've been calling him a
      vampire for years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they do say that children are intuitive about these
      things," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall raised an eyebrow, sitting primly behind her desk. "I
      suspect <em class="calibre8">they</em> had little experience with children."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I lowered my invisibility cloak's hood. It was a wonder it had
      lasted this long. Of course, Dumbledore had likely lied about its
      age, as he often does. Umbridge squeaked in fright, and
      McGonagall's mouth twitched upwards. She asked, "Here for our
      meeting, Mr. Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're quite early," McGonagall remarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "I was excited."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nearly smiled but caught herself just in time. "Two hours
      early, in fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Incredibly excited," I clarified. "Also, I have detention in
      two hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I imagine most students would have used this as an excuse to
      skip detention," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smiled, taking a seat in front of her desk. "No, that's
      alright. I like detention."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wouldn't be nearly as fun if I followed the professors'
      instructions, but, unlike the other students, I have no fear of
      expulsion. Dumbledore would never allow me that far from his
      domain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," McGonagall said. "Tell me, Mr. Potter, what is your
      opinion on Professor Umbridge's presence at this meeting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It seems reasonable to me," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge smirked. "Thank you –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After all, that's perfectly within her rights as my master. If
      she was at any other students' meetings, however, that would be
      weird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was nice to see Umbridge scowling again. Her smile gave me
      the heebie-jeebies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge turned to McGonagall and said, "I simply do not
      understand why you've allowed a clearly mentally ill boy to go
      untreated for so long while under your care."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter is simply a child, Dolores. It's no surprise you
      don't understand that since you have so very little experience in
      teaching."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall turned smoothly back to me. "Now, Mr. Potter, have
      you given any thought to your future career?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," I said, beaming, "I'm going to be the Defense
      Against the Dark Arts professor at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall was silent for a few moments, no doubt impressed by
      how astutely I had chosen my career path. "Are you certain that's a
      wise decision, Mr. Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah, I mean, I'm pretty good at Defense, and I'm great
      with kids." I'd been surrounded by them for the past several years,
      and not one child had suffered irreparable harm while under my
      care. This is particularly impressive because I lead them into
      dangerous situations all the time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," I said, "the position's always open."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that doesn't concern you," McGonagall prodded. Umbridge
      scribbled something on her notepad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not at all. I've survived everything that got rid of the
      last ones." And I wasn't very well going to murder myself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps Mr. Potter would be suited for a more" – Umbridge
      coughed lightly – "<em class="calibre8">simple</em> position. I hardly think the
      stresses of professorship would be well suited to his delicate
      mind, and his delinquent tendencies are hardly fitting for the
      post."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the only person who ever gives me detention," I pointed
      out. "I could easily argue that the problem is not me, but
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I would be lying, of course. Snape still docked points from
      Slytherin for my misconduct, McGonagall had devised a method of
      punishment whereby my favorite desserts would go unmade for days
      after any particularly concerning transgressions, and Filch had
      actively avoided me since my only detention with him back in second
      year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's ridiculous! You <em class="calibre8">earn</em> those detentions through
      your disrespect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you earn my disrespect by being a terrible teacher," I
      explained. "So, if you would stop doing that, you wouldn't have to
      put up with my detentions anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Detention," she hissed, stubborn as ever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "Besides, I would have thought you would approve of
      my choice to take your job. Why else would you make me your
      apprentice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rest of the Gryffindor's career advice meetings had to be
      postponed because Umbridge exploded McGonagall's office. As I
      explained to Umbridge during my later detention, her temper was one
      of many traits that made her such a terrible choice for Defense
      Against the Dark Arts professor.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not the Bubblehead Charm," Hermione muttered. "Nearly
      everyone knows it already, and the few that don't can learn it from
      the others during their self-guided period. I…hm. Did Neville ever
      figure out the Patronus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took me a moment to realize that Hermione was no longer
      talking to herself. I said, "It doesn't really matter. We've given
      up on magic for Neville."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, Harry, he can't just give up on magic. We go to a
      school for magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, we go to a school for witches and wizards. Neville
      has more traditional talents, like swordsmanship."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced up from her half-filled planner. "I didn't know
      Neville could use a sword."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's working on it." I nodded to the other end of the room,
      where Neville was hacking at a dummy with a sword.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's lips pursed. "Is that a real sword?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "I suppose that depends on your definition of
      <em class="calibre8">real.</em> Yes, it cuts things, but the Room may have created
      it solely to fulfill our wishes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We walked over to Neville, and Neville waved hello with his
      sword.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gasped, eyes wide. "Oh, Merlin, or Gryffindor, or…Oh
      my."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you alright?" he asked. "I didn't cut you or anything,
      right? I, uh, don't think I was that close, but it might be magic.
      Well, more magic than –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give it to me. I'd like to examine it," she said weakly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He did so, and it disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at her empty hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you've destroyed it. How is Neville supposed to become
      good at anything now?" I grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sword appeared in Neville's grasp. Hermione leaned forward,
      sucking air in through her large teeth. "This is the Sword of
      Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snatched it from Neville, growling as it once again
      disappeared. A crowd had begun to gather, mumbling and eyeing
      Neville enviously each time the sword reappeared in his hands.
      Someone would make a grab for it, only for it to vanish again and
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Above the commotion, Dumbledore's phoenix perched, watching us.
      As it always does.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Sword of Gryffindor can only be wielded by those who are
      worthy of the house," Hermione explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, licking his lips nervously, Ron took the sword from
      Neville. He stared at it in awe. "I feel like Merlin, from that
      story with the stone and sword."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean King Arthur, Ronald," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," he said, "I mean Merlin. Who's that other bloke?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I crept through the dungeons, feeling like a man-eating snake
      stalking its prey. Sidling closer, I whispered, "Psst. Draco.
      Draco. Draaa-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy jumped, head whipping about him. "Bloody hell! Potter,
      what are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm invisible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy snorted. "Yes, Potter. I am aware that you're invisible.
      You're always invisible. What I want to know is why you're in the
      Slytherin common room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "I followed someone in. Or maybe I guessed the
      password. Or maybe I hissed at the wall, and it let me in. Or maybe
      I'm the Heir of Slytherin, and the castle recognizes my right to be
      here. I won't tell you which one. I'm sneaky like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter, everyone can hear you talking," he pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My eyes widened at his idiocy and I derisively said, "You don't
      have a Silencing Charm up? What are you, a squib?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He flicked his wand. "You're not the Heir of Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure about that?" – I hissed at him –
      "Ha-sha-ss-kah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cocked an eyebrow. "Really, Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I'd had a snake, that would have gone a lot better," I
      informed him. This is primarily true because the snake would have
      latched onto Malfoy's face, and he would have been too distracted
      to insult me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Malfoy said. "So, have you finally decided to drop the
      blood-traitor and mudblood?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my invisible head. "No, I've spent far too much time
      training them. I would appreciate it if you didn't mention this to
      Hermione, though. I don't know what's going on between you two, but
      I refuse to involve myself in your lover's spat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy's face wrinkled in a very Weasley fashion. "Me and
      Granger? That's disgusting, Potter. Twenty points from Gryffindor
      for making me picture that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned, realized he couldn't see it, and frowned harder.
      "Malfoy, you can't do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter, I know that you occasionally miss the simple facts of
      reality, so let me explain this to you. I'm a member of the
      Inquisitorial Squad, and we're allowed to take points –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't mean it like that," I interrupted. "I mean, you
      literally cannot take points from Gryffindor. Gryffindor has no
      points. The only house that still has points is Slytherin. The only
      person who even cares anymore is you. I'm telling you this because
      some people seem to think we're friends, so you being dumb makes me
      look bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sneered. "I am not –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, hear me out here. This is literally the worst example of
      cheating I've ever seen. You have made your group pointless, much
      like Gryffindor house, and everyone hates you. Even the other
      Slytherins hate you because you've all but stated that the only way
      your house could win the Cup is if you cheat. Which, to be fair, is
      true because you haven't done well in Quidditch since I bought the
      other three teams new brooms <em class="calibre8">without</em> burdening them with
      terrible seekers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter!" he shouted through the Silencing Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it was too late. I was already gone.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I sat at the head of the Malfoy table, atop my throne of wailing
      portraits, and watched my recently-freed followers. Rookwood was
      struggling to Imperio a spoon. The Lestrange brothers had slipped
      under the tablecloth, hissing at anyone who came too close. Hagrid
      was looking about as if he'd never seen any of us before and had
      been incredibly violent until Severus reminded him of his
      status.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd entered Azkaban as perfectly competent, if slightly
      sociopathic, followers and left it as raving lunatics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix, in contrast, had entered as a raving lunatic and left
      slightly mellowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I took a bite of cake, and then, slightly nauseous, set down my
      fork. "Bellatrix?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, my love…I mean my lord?" she crooned, batting her
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, some things even the Dementors cannot cure. "Stop
      dosing Dobby's cakes with love potion. I like cake. Dose something
      I like slightly less, such as the turkey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But everyone eats the turkey," Bellatrix whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow, baffled. "Then one of them might love
      you…I'm pretty sure that's what you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pouted, stealing a bite of my cake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I legitimately had no idea what she was upset about this time. I
      wasn't some sort of seer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I paused. Right. The prophecy. I should probably go get that.
      Plus, it would be a nice excuse to get Bellatrix out of the house
      and finally have some cake that hadn't been tampered with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix," I said. "I need you to break into the Department of
      Mysteries. Try to be subtle about it, will you?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville," Hermione said, staring coolly down the sword pointed
      at her nose. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville flushed, stumbling backwards into the Room of
      Requirement and dropping the Sword of Gryffindor. "Um, sorry. It's
      just…Harry –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She raised a hand to silence him and stalked forward. Hermione
      hissed, "Harry James Potter, what are you doing? Neville is
      dropping from the ceiling to attack people, Umbridge is prowling
      the school looking for you, and WHY IS THERE A PHOENIX ON YOUR
      HEAD?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I reached upwards to pat Fawkes, grateful for the invisible
      glove charm which protected me from his bites. "Yeah, he's been
      following me around for a while. I asked Dumbledore, and he said
      something about migratory patterns. He might think I'm another
      phoenix or something…Dumbledore wasn't very clear. He never
      is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he's trying to build a nest from my hair!" Ginevra
      chirped, rubbing her bald spot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smiled. "Now, Hermione, what's got you so upset?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She grabbed her wand, snarling, "I just told you –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what was the first thing that upset you?" That's usually
      the only one that matters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Malfoy tried to arrest me for being your friend,
      or something like that. Apparently, that's against one of
      Umbridge's new rules."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. "You escaped?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm secretly Umbridge polyjuiced as Hermione Granger," she
      said flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My eyes widened. That's what I get for trusting Neville with our
      defense. I raised my wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sarcasm!" she shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I eyed her suspiciously, peering into her eyes for signs of the
      Imperius. Atop my skull, Fawkes did the same. "Right, if she used
      polyjuice, Umbridge would turn into your true, older form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Honestly,</em> Harry. I am not a spy. I banished Malfoy on
      top of the lake and came straight here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…They did get more water in that lake, right? Because it's
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> deep…" The phoenix trilled in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra called from across the room, "The lake's been full for
      over a year. You just don't go outside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Malfoy can swim?" I inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pursed her lips. "Well, if he can't, I imagine he'll
      learn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I placed a hand on her shoulder. "Hermione, I'm concerned about
      how emotionally invested you're getting in this relationship. I…I'm
      starting to think that you're not in love with Malfoy, after
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gaped. "Why did you ever think that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I hated to ask this question so bluntly, especially considering
      the possible damage even voicing the possibility could do to her
      reputation, but I had to be sure. "Is Draco Malfoy your rival?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She carefully evaded the question, confirming my worst fears. "I
      just think he's an awful person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, that's a yes. You can do better than that," I said,
      despairing. "Malfoy is pathetic. Treating him as any sort of equal
      reflects poorly on you and everyone you associate with." Primarily
      me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're kidding me," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's not!" Ginevra cried, causing Fawkes to flap his wings
      menacingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "My rival, for instance, is the Dark Lord
      Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He tries to kill you," Hermione said. "He's not your
      rival."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape then," I acquiesced. Previously, it was Dumbledore. "You
      can do better. Maybe Neville."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced towards Neville, who had once again scaled the
      wall and was fiercely watching the door. "Harry, I don't want a
      rival."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I was in your shoes, I would be doubtful too," I reassured
      her. "But Neville is really improving. I think the two of you would
      be good for each other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I seriously don't want one. Also, I like Neville." With a
      panicked look, she hastily added, "He's my friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled. "Not a problem. Plenty of people don't like Neville.
      You can ask them about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Also, you never did explain why he's guarding the door,"
      Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I twirled my wand, smirking. "We're expecting an attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The twins again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not a Weasley this time. Ginevra's contacts have informed
      us that we have a leak. One of the Ravenclaws has gone rogue.
      Umbridge could arrive any minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A minute later, Umbridge stormed through the door, and the
      phoenix dived forward, talons extended.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
