<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 15: HP vs Love (Pt 2), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: HP vs Love (Pt 2)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 8: Harry Potter vs. Love (Pt. 2)</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dozen Death Eaters and I sat in Grimmauld Place's dining room.
      Kreacher had long ago cleared our plates, though tea and a few
      desserts still lingered. Against my protests, Bellatrix had spooned
      pudding onto my plate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's good for you!" she crooned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. "<em class="calibre8">Vanilla pudding</em> is good for
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's eyes darted about the table. "Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Frowning, I turned away from her. "Lucius, any progress on our
      plans to break into Hogwarts and kidnap Harry Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, my lord, but I fear it will be difficult. According to my
      sources in Hogwarts –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean your son?" Sirius asked, earning a cuff on the back of
      the head from Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My. Sources. In. Hogwarts," Lucius ground out, "have informed
      me that Potter spends most of his time invisible and only
      periodically attends classes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's never in Defense," Severus drawled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "And the break-in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've acquired a Vanishing Cabinet that has a twin in the Room
      of Requirement. However, it seems to be broken, and my son –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sucks at magic?" Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In this instance, I have to agree," Severus said. "It's a
      wonder he's passing Defense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes, you're the new DADA professor at Hogwarts," I
      snapped. "We're aware."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Things are progressing well under the circumstances, my lor…oh,
      Trelawney," Lucius ended sourly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Having wandered down from her floor, Trelawney watched us in
      silent horror. She looked like she might faint. This would be a
      poor decision, mind you, because the only person in a position to
      catch her was Bellatrix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smiled at the seer. "Would you like to join us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney shook her head, though the motion was slight enough
      that she may have simply been trembling. "There are thirteen of you
      at the table. The first of you to rise shall also be the first to
      die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, if you join us, then there will be fourteen people at the
      table, and we'll all be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney blinked. "Oh. Yes. I suppose that might work. Truly,
      fate has favored us this evening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shakily settled into an empty chair. I, of course,
      immediately darted out of mine. "HA! I've escaped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney moaned, collapsing atop the table. Bellatrix seemed
      similarly upset. "But, my lord, you haven't eaten your
      pudding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want the pudding," I declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She picked up the bowl, a maniacal look in her eye, and tried to
      grab my robes. Failing that, she said, "But, my lord, I made it
      just for you. It's really good. I love you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I fled the room, Bellatrix not far behind.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn surveyed the class, chins trembling in excitement. "Ah,
      very good. It looks like everyone's here today. We'll be brewing
      Amortentia. Is anyone familiar with it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's hand shot into the air. Slughorn chortled. "Miss
      Granger, reaching for the sky as usual, I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amortentia is the most powerful love potion in existence. It's
      identified by its mother-of-pearl sheen, smells differently to
      every person, and causes a strong infatuation in the drinker,"
      Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very good, Miss Granger. Been reading your textbook, I see,"
      Slughorn said. "Mr. Potter, you had something to add?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I refuse to brew this potion," I said. The classroom filled
      with murmurs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really, now! What's the trouble?" Slughorn asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Love potions are vile things. They completely consume the will
      of the victim, leaving them horrified and disturbed when the potion
      eventually wears off," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron gaped. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yes, it's quite terrible for them," I assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just a learning experience," Slughorn said, "not a
      suggestion. Nothing to worry about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would you teach someone how to do something if you don't
      want them to?" I snapped. "This is exactly the sort of thing that
      got that Second Year Slytherin killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Harry has a point. I'm not sure if I'm
      comfortable doing this, either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd expect to see it on your NEWTs, almost no chance it
      wouldn't be," Slughorn said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She bit her lip. "Even still…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know how many crimes are committed by people under love
      potion?" I demanded. "More than those under the Imperius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter has a point," Blaise Zabini said. "You can talk someone
      under love potion into doing just about anything: running off the
      side of a building, taunting a Hippogriff, challenging a Goblin to
      a fight to the death…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was very sorry to hear about your stepfather. He was a good
      man. Not too bright, but good," Slughorn said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We were winning. I was certain of it. "That isn't even getting
      into all the crimes committed against those under the potion:
      robbery, sexual assault, murder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Putting them under at all could be considered slavery,"
      Hermione said. Ron was looking increasingly ill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "And what about all the witches who give Muggles love
      potions and then marry them? The Muggles don't know to check for
      that sort of thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The magicals usually don't check, either," Zabini noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And think of the children!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron stuttered, "W-what about the children?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Can you imagine how it is for them? If their mother
      ever forgets to dose their father, he'll leave the family, and
      she'll die of a broken heart. Then, they'll be all alone, spurned
      by a man they never really knew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron slumped against the desk, groaning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn sighed. "Well, if you're all certain, I suppose we
      could just have an essay on Amortentia, instead..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded eagerly, ignoring Ron's continued sounds of
      misery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Of course, it really is a pity. I was planning to give a prize
      to the best brewer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What kind of prize?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't matter much now, you understand, since I was
      planning it specifically for this lesson. But I have a single vial
      of Felix Felicis, also known as –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Liquid luck," I breathed. "I rescind my earlier complaints and
      reject everyone who agreed with me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn appeared shocked. "Quite sure about that? You seemed
      terribly set against it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who am I to get in the way of learning?" I declared, grabbing
      my potions set and sprinting towards the ingredient cupboard.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gather round, everyone," Slughorn called, waving us towards the
      winning potion. "What do you smell, then, Miss Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dreamy smile lit up her face. "There's a scent of freshly mown
      grass, new parchment, spearmint toothpaste, and…ginger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron piped up. "I smell my Chudley Cannons' shirt, cake,
      and…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn sidled next to him, asking, "What is it? A certain
      girl, perhaps?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lavender!" Ron blurted out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Lavender the plant or Lavender the person?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, both?" Ron asked, glancing around nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna Lovegood sighed. "That's very romantic. Mine is mostly
      mistletoe, but there's a slight scent of brimstone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna, what are you doing here?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blonde giggled. "I had a free period, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That explains it," I said. Ron and Hermione shot us odd
      looks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does it smell like to you, Harry?" Luna asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I leaned forward, taking a deep breath. "Snakes, and…I dunno.
      Sewers, maybe?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron and Hermione huddled together, whispering and glancing in my
      direction while Lavender jealously watched the exchange. Finally
      coming to a decision, the two of them walked over to me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took point. "Harry, I really am quite grateful that you
      saved me from Malfoy's conjured snake, but I have a couple of
      questions. First of all, why is it still wrapped around your
      neck?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've always wanted a pet," I said, grinning down at the snake.
      "I think I'll call him Ophion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," she said. "And, also, why is it not biting you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he likes me," I said. "Also, I learned snake charming
      in –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny," Ron interrupted. "Can you set up the privacy
      spells?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On it!" Ginevra cried, rushing over to us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," he said, then turned to me. "How'd you really do it,
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know why you don't believe me," I said sullenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione huffed. "Alright, fine. I was going to give you a
      chance to tell the truth on your own, but you clearly have no
      intention of doing so. I heard you speaking to it in
      Parseltongue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know that," I said. "I could have just been hissing
      at it. Unless <em class="calibre8">you</em> speak Parseltongue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I narrowed my eyes at her and my new pet did the same, but the
      girl merely raised an eyebrow. "You hissed at it, and it
      immediately curled around your arm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's eyes widened. "Wait a minute! In Second Year, were
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> the Heir of Slytherin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that makes so much more sense than the story you told me,"
      Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron continued, "Then, when you said that you were getting rid of
      the Heir, did you just mean that you were going to stop?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was gone for two days, Ron! If I was the Heir, what do you
      think I was doing during that time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shrugged. "I dunno. Dealing with your murderous urges?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not the Heir!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned. "It's alright if you were. We won't be angry.
      In retrospect, that conversation about how everyone was the Heir
      was clearly a cry for help. Obviously, Hagrid shouldn't have been
      blamed, but he <em class="calibre8">did</em> turn out to be a Death Eater, so it's
      really for the best…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I would love to take credit for this," I said, "but I'm
      not the Heir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who was it, then?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, I can't tell you," I muttered, stroking Ophion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron and Hermione shot me skeptical looks. Meanwhile, Ginevra was
      standing very still, eyes wide. It seemed that she was taking her
      duty as a guard very seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They probably wouldn't have believed me if I explained that the
      actual Heir was Voldemort's childhood diary. Even if they did, that
      might lead them…well, Hermione to realize the existence of my
      Horcruxes. A decoy was clearly necessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Because, even if you talked to him, he wouldn't
      remember the incident. You see, I obliviated him because I – like
      Dumbledore – believe in second chances."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"The red girl smells like fear,"</em> Ophion informed
      me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Quiet!"</em> I snapped, <em class="calibre8">"I'm trying to convince them
      that I'm not evil, and you eating someone will not help the
      situation."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Hermione said. "Do you honestly expect us to believe
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment, Ginevra dropped the Silencing Charm and (clearly
      terrified of my new pet) scurried towards the Girls' Dormitory.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">There was only one word on the note: <em class="calibre8">Taffy.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I scowled down at the paper, twisting it this way and that in
      the hopes that more words would appear. It wouldn't be that odd.
      Magic does that sometimes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Growling, I shoved it into my pocket and glared around the
      breakfast table. "Did any of you tell Dumbledore about my…foreign
      language experience?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione and Ron both shook their heads, each absorbed in a
      book. Huh, Ron reading. That was a first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginevra?" I threatened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't ever betray you," Ginevra assured me. "I owe you way
      too much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She really was a very good minion. Loyal, cunning, mildly
      insane, even somewhat attra…I shoved away my plate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginevra, did you put love potion in my eggs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she said, shaking her head. "I haven't got all the
      ingredients yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I find out that you're lying…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, if I had dosed you with Mum's potion, you would be
      kissing me right now. It's a really good potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded stiffly, glaring back down at the note. Did Silencing
      Charms not work on portraits? Or were the walls spying for
      Dumbledore, as well?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell, the Death Eaters were right!" Ron exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "Out of all my friends, I should have known that you
      would be the one to become a Blood Purist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron frowned. "Wha? I, no, I don't mean it like that. They
      weren't right about most things. Murdering gits. It's just, uh,
      Lavender kept talking about all the stuff I dealt with as a
      werewolf, and I got curious about what she meant. Things really
      suck for them…I mean us. And, apparently, Werewolf Rights was
      pretty important to Death Eaters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only if the werewolf was Pureblood," Hermione said.
      "<em class="calibre8">Mudbloods</em> were out of luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty points for foul language, Miss Granger," Severus said,
      sweeping past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I left for the Headmaster's office.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're lying! The only language I know is English!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stormed into the Headmaster's office. His phoenix landed on my
      shoulder, biting at my ear with…affection, I guess?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore seemed surprised. "Ah, Harry. I called you up here
      today to learn more about Voldemort. Was there something else you
      would like to talk about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not at all. Let's talk about Voldemort," I muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Dumbledore said, peering at me atop his glasses and
      stroking his beard with a shriveled hand. "Lemon drop?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I waved it off, the movement jostling Fawkes. "The memory?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is of the first time I met young Tom Riddle. Even then, he
      was a very cold child," Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We walked to the pensieve, leaning forward until we were sucked
      inside. I glanced at the bird still digging its claws into my
      shoulder and regarding the dilapidated orphanage around us with
      deep suspicion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't know phoenixes could go into pensieves," I
      remarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore chuckled. "Fawkes can go anywhere he likes, I
      think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We followed the younger Headmaster, then a Transfiguration
      professor, through his travels and conversation with a Wool's
      Orphanage worker. It was then that he met the matron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs. Cole never liked me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Further, she seemed quite intent on ensuring that Dumbledore
      felt the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her main complaints were that I was weird (i.e. a wizard) and
      creepy (i.e. well-behaved). She had some legitimate points, but I
      would argue that all the children at my orphanage were horrible. I
      was just better at it than they were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I felt a sudden regret that I'd never murdered her. I could do
      it now, but she was probably already dead. It had been like fifty
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After twenty minutes of commiserating with Mrs. Cole about how
      awful I was, Dumbledore decided to actually meet me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My younger self immediately began panicking, certain that he
      would be sent to the asylum. I'd been threatened with it plenty of
      times. Some nights, I lie awake, wondering if I actually was sent
      there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore responded by setting everything I owned on fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There's a reason he was always my least-favorite professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that proof enough for you, Tom?" he asked, oblivious to the
      phoenix flying repeatedly through his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What proof? I saw nothing. You're not taking me to the asylum,"
      Tom muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's younger self sighed, putting out the fire. The
      wardrobe began shivering, then, and Dumbledore encouraged the boy
      to take out a box filled with small things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thieving is not tolerated at Hogwarts," Dumbledore said. Of
      course, he didn't bother to check the other children's wardrobes to
      see if they had any of <em class="calibre8">my</em> things in there because that
      would be fair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore explained Diagon Alley and its many shops. "I could
      accompany you –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hah! And let you lead me straight to the madhouse? I think
      not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I probably should have let him come. I've always been terrible
      with directions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the bright side, I did discover Knockturn Alley in my
      travels…</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The moment he heard footsteps on the staircase, Ron dove under
      his bed covers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra giggled at the very noticeable lump he made under the
      blankets. "It's just me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron said, "Uh, 'me' isn't Lavender, is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. It's Ginny," she said. You'd think Ron would know his only
      sister's voice, but I suppose fear had taxed his already-limited
      mental abilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, thank Merlin…Wait, what are you doing up here?! You better
      not be messing around with Dean, or I'll kill him," Ron snapped,
      bursting out from under the bed covers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The redhead sat on the corner of his mattress. "Dean and I broke
      up a couple of weeks ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He didn't hurt you, did he?" Ron asked, face darkening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head, smiling. "No, nothing like that. Dean just
      didn't want to date me anymore because he thinks I'm obsessed with
      Harry Potter. And I didn't really want to date <em class="calibre8">him</em> anymore
      because he got upset every time I tried to help Harry. Also, trying
      to maintain dozens of friendships <em class="calibre8">and</em> a relationship at
      the same time is exhausting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron frowned. "Oh. Well, why did you come here, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry needs our help downstairs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With what?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dunno. He didn't say" – Ginevra turned towards the door –
      "Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I pulled down my invisibility cloak, wrapping it around my
      shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron rolled his eyes, grumbling, "Should've know you were
      invisible. What's going on, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I grinned. "We're killing Bellatrix Lestrange."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's mouth fell open into a typical Weasley pose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra said, "Oh, we should tell Neville. He's always wanted to
      do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-how?" Ron squeaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remember how Hermione suggested that we should use my
      connection to the Dark Lord to play upon his paranoia, causing him
      to kill his own people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, sort of," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he's finally gone to bed at a decent hour, and I've
      figured out how to activate his visions," I said. "So come along
      before he wakes up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron chuckled nervously. "I, uh, can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're very important for authenticity," I said. "He's come to
      expect a strong Weasley presence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, mate. Lavender thinks I'm a werewolf, and it's the night
      of the full moon. If she sees me, she'll hex me for sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And break up with you," Ginevra chirped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. She'd probly do that, too," he agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose we could do it up here," I muttered, glancing around
      the Boys' Dormitory. "You might want to put on robes first,
      though."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let us begin our latest meeting of the Junior Order of the
      Phoenix," I declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stood on Ron's bed. Below me, Hermione, Ron, Ginevra, and
      Neville sat cross-legged on the floor. I made a show of slowly
      surveying them. "It looks like everyone is here, so we shall move
      on to our first order of business: What have we heard from our
      mother organization?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron snorted. "The Order's telling us nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore did ask us to disband, though," Ginevra said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He does that pretty often," Neville said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Order. Order. Calm yourselves," I said, gesturing for them to
      settle down. "Let us move on to our next topic: What have we heard
      from our spies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have not heard anything from Bellatrix Lestrange for weeks,"
      Hermione said, carefully enunciating each syllable. "I believe she
      may be dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville slumped forward, leaning his cheek against a loose fist.
      "No. I don't believe it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it was going to happen eventually," Ginevra said. "She
      overacts all the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. Like anyone could ever be in love with V-Voldemort," Ron
      said, looking pleased to have stuttered out my hated, former
      name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should not lose hope," I said. "Voldemort is too arrogant to
      suspect her. Bellatrix is probably fine. Now, let us discuss our
      group colors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suggest red and gold," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who approves of that suggest – okay, he's gone," I said. "Nice
      job, guys. I love how you all sounded as if you had no idea what
      you were doing. Especially you, Ginevra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've always wanted to be in a play, but we don't do those here.
      Or any other activities that aren't Quidditch," Ginevra said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I grinned. "I suspect it's because the school is so old. People
      assume that, if we don't do something, it's because we don't do
      that here. And all the things that we started out doing have been
      outlawed for being too violent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like the Triwizard Tournament?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly," I said. "Of course, we did bring that back, so I
      suppose –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We just condemned a woman to death!" Hermione cried. "Are none
      of you even <em class="calibre8">slightly</em> upset about this?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "Hermione, she's <em class="calibre8">Bellatrix Lestrange</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She tortured my parents into insanity," Neville said
      flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's a Death Eater," Ron grunted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She tortured Neville's parents into insanity," Ginevra
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes darted between us until, finally, she groaned
      and buried her face in her hands. "Why am <em class="calibre8">I</em> the one
      everyone calls evil?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"YOU KILLED MY SNAKE!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked quite justifiably horrified. "Oh, Harry. I'm so
      sorry. You startled me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I clutched at the space around my neck where Ophion had just
      been. "THIS IS WHAT ALWAYS HAPPENS! YOU THROW AROUND DANGEROUS
      SPELLS AND KILL SWEET, INNOCENT THINGS!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For Merlin's sake, it was just a Jelly-Legs Jinx," she said. "I
      couldn't have known it would disappear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really, Hermione? You couldn't have known? I save your life,
      you kill my pet, and that's all you have to say to me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, alright?" Hermione snapped. "I can conjure you a new
      one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that won't work," I said. "You have to make Malfoy do
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not going to taunt Malfoy into throwing a snake at me!"
      Hermione shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shook his head, muttering, "Really? Seems like that's all
      you want, lately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She whirled around, hissing, "Shouldn't you be off snogging
      Lavender or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll have you know she broke up with me 'cause she saw you
      sneaking off to the Boys' Dormitory and got the wrong impression,"
      he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Oh, so now that's my fault, too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it is. Maybe, if you would spend more time paying
      attention to your friends and less time mooning over Malfoy, none
      of this would be happening!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not <em class="calibre8">moon</em> over Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just stalking him, then?" he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised a hand, feeling dizzy. "Woah. You guys need to slow
      down for a second. I can't keep track of all these
      relationships."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I took a deep breath and continued, "Thankfully, I have people
      for that. Ginevra?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The redhead ushered us into seats facing an empty wall, where
      Hermione and Ron continued sneering at each other. With a flick of
      Ginevra's wand, dozens of pictures flew onto the board.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cleared her throat. "Ron's ex-girlfriend, as of this
      morning, is Lavender Brown. Lavender is currently trying to get
      together with my ex-boyfriend Dean –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was quick, the bint," Ron grumbled. Hermione elbowed him
      in the ribs. A crowd had begun to gather, and Lavender threw a hex
      in Ron's direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– but her first crush was Parvati Patil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't <em class="calibre8">really</em> a crush. We just practiced kissing
      together, so I would be better at it for guys like Won…I mean
      Deany," Lavender said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra continued, "Now, Parvati may be a little <em class="calibre8">too</em>
      close to her twin, but no one talks about that for fear of being
      labeled a pervert. Padma likes Ron, possibly because he reminds her
      of her sister. Ron, meanwhile, is in love with Hermione Granger.
      But he hasn't realized that yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron yelped, "WHAT?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione flushed, clearly uncomfortable with the scrutiny this
      declaration had earned her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione also loves Ron, but she's waiting for him to grow up
      first. So it'll probly be a while. Hermione has also been stalking
      Draco Malfoy. Meanwhile, in the Slytherin dorms, Crabbe is dating
      Tracy but likes Daphne, and Goyle is dating Daphne but likes Tracy.
      This would be completely independent from the web, except that all
      of them are <em class="calibre8">also</em> stalking Draco Malfoy. Now, Draco likes
      his father, his money and spending inordinate amounts of time in
      the Room of Requirement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know that?" Hermione asked. "I only figured it out a
      couple of days ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet," I said. "She's on a roll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Presumably, he uses it for disturbing and vaguely sexual
      purposes because Draco, like all Purebloods, is a pervert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's face twisted in confusion. "Gin, <em class="calibre8">we're</em>
      Purebloods."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody likes Neville," Ginevra continued, "but he likes Ginny
      Weasley. She hasn't noticed yet –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You –" Ron began, stopping short when Hermione set a hand on
      his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– because she has a HUGE crush on Harry Potter. Unfortunately
      for Ginny, Harry only likes inanimate objects and abstract concepts
      because his emotional development stalled somewhere around age
      eleven."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded, always eager to undermine my authority.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could widen the web to include people not directly connected
      and the younger years, but then I'd need a bigger wall," Ginevra
      finished apologetically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That isn't necessary," I assured her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Ginevra bowed to the Gryffindor common room, I turned to
      Hermione. "So, Draco's hanging out in the Room of Requirement, huh?
      We could do something about that."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy can't get into the Room of Requirement?" Hermione said,
      pacing the common room. "How is that even possible?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I sealed the room, but it isn't foolproof. He can still collect
      the key, which I've broken into seven pieces and scattered across
      the castle. Once he's gathered them all, he'll realize that he
      didn't need a key. The true key was within him all along."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, he <em class="calibre8">can</em> get in, then?" Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not for months."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She raised an eyebrow. "Why didn't you just lock the room and
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> leave the key lying around?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a ritual, Hermione," I said. "It's better than most
      magic but only works if you make it somewhat fair. Without a
      loophole, it isn't fair. For instance, the Fidelius will hide you
      from everybody, but you have to trust one person because you can't
      hide from <em class="calibre8">everybody.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned. "I've never read about that before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Dark Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Hermione said, collapsing into a loveseat. "I guess I
      don't need to follow Malfoy around anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not unless you want to," I agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at the fireplace blankly. The distant squealing
      of Lavender Brown, new girlfriend of Dean Thomas, filled the
      silence. After a few minutes, she said, "I reorganized my schedule
      so that I would have plenty of time to investigate Malfoy. So, now,
      I don't actually have anything to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could always start recruiting for your Dark army."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She blinked at me, and I elaborated, "Ginevra is a good start,
      but now is the perfect time to network. Try getting the Slytherins.
      They're already trained to be minions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And to hate me," Hermione pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll be fine. Just tell them you're a Pureblood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione laughed, no doubt delighted by my suggestion. "It isn't
      that simple, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it is. You say that you're from the Granger family,
      who are really famous in France, and they would know that if they
      weren't a bunch of backwards, untraveled hicks. They say that
      they'll check up on your story, but they never do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're joking," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Happens all the time," I said. "I'm pretty sure Abraxas Malfoy
      was a Muggleborn. He said he was from France. Have you ever been to
      France? I've never been to France. I don't think Draco's been to
      France. If he has great-grandparents there, why hasn't he ever
      visited? WHERE ARE THE GREAT-GRANDMALFOYS?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione began massaging her temple (probably Lavender's fault).
      "You did <em class="calibre8">not</em> just accuse Draco Malfoy of being a
      half-blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not. Draco's a Pureblood. <em class="calibre8">Lucius</em> is the
      half-blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Regardless, I've told plenty of people I'm a
      Muggleborn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. Hermione had backed herself into a corner, and, once
      again, it was my job to rescue her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In that case, tell them that Muggleborns don't exist," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione merely raised an eyebrow, pointed at herself, and said,
      "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, hear me out here," I said. "What if all Muggleborn children
      are just magical children whose parents left them with
      memory-charmed Muggles and then died? Or maybe they just didn't
      want them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "I'm sure that, if we ask Ron –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wouldn't know," I said. "The Weasleys keep all of their
      children. That's why everyone thinks they're weird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sighed. "This is the most ludicrous thing I have ever heard
      in my life, and I've been friends with <em class="calibre8">you</em> for <em class="calibre8">six
      years</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stared her dead in the eyes. "Are you honestly telling me that
      you can't think of a single person who would charm a Muggle for
      free babysitting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender's squeals split the air, and Hermione, defeated,
      trudged off to bed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and cannot access the room where he's keeping all of his
      materials until he completes a quest," Lucius finished his report,
      placing a kiss on the hem of my robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm. What sort of quest?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He must retrieve seven keys, hidden in Hogwarts," Lucius
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. "Are you sure the key isn't already in
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius tensed for a crucio, silver hand curled into a fist. "I
      don't understand, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You never really understand. It's more of a feeling…I presume
      this is Harry Potter's doing. The boy is a genius, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus interjected, "Really? I wouldn't know. He's always been
      miserable at Potions, and he's failing Defense Against the Dark
      Arts. There are basic factual errors in all of his essays. I don't
      think he reads the textbook. Frankly, I'm not certain he
      reads."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre8">you</em> teach both those subjects doesn't make any
      difference at all, eh, Snape?" Sirius said. He lounged against the
      wall, a disrespect I would only allow from my right-hand man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sneered at him. "Potter's idiocy can hardly be blamed on
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, come off it, Snape. We all know you hated James."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus said, "I assure you that I hate the boy on his own
      merits. While Potter, like his father, is a pompous glory hound, he
      is also undoubtedly a Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius growled, "You take that back!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape merely smirked at the wand jabbed into his neck. I said,
      "Alright, let's all calm down. We've already lost enough people to
      Bellatrix's treachery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In retrospect, her insistence on killing her fellow Death Eaters
      makes a lot more sense now. I continued, "So the previous plan is
      ruined, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, my lord," Lucius said, trying to hide within his hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sighed. "I suppose we'll just have to floo in, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius blinked. "Wait, we can do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged, rising from my throne. "I don't see why not."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: While I changed the orphanage scene for my own
      amusement, it's worth noting that canon's young Tom Riddle is
      disturbingly like our Harrymort. He denies crimes he wasn't accused
      of, jumps to wild conclusions that he refuses to let go of, and is
      a total braggart. Seriously, check out HBP Ch. 13. It's freaking
      hilarious.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
