<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 16: HP vs Love (Pt 3), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 16: HP vs Love (Pt 3)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 8: Harry Potter vs. Love (Pt. 3)</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I tripped on my way outside of the pensieve, landing in a
      crumpled heap on the floor. I was viciously pleased when Dumbledore
      did the same, even if it was on me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite alright, my boy?" Dumbledore asked, standing and holding
      out a withered hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I grabbed the edge of his desk to haul myself up. "Fine. I was
      simply examining the floor for defects and found it woefully
      inadequate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's eyes twinkled as I slumped into a chair, checking
      my robes for dirt. I found myself dizzy in ways unexplained by
      magical travel. We'd gone back to a particular class during my
      first time at Hogwarts, but that wasn't how I remembered that
      conversation at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which led to the question: Was my memory faulty? Had someone
      obliviated me? Or oblivated Slughorn? I'm pretty sure I would
      recall if I had done that…Would I?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, what was that white fog? Potions fumes? I said, "Sir, I
      know the dungeons have always had ventilation problems, but was it
      really that bad back then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore said, "That wasn't normal smoke, I'm afraid. It's
      proof of memory tampering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who did it?" I asked. "Voldemort? A Death Eater? You? Professor
      –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He did it to himself, out of shame," Dumbledore said. "Whatever
      happened in that conversation has laid very heavily on Horace's
      conscience, very heavily indeed. It may be the very information we
      require to destroy Lord Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need you to get that memory for me, Harry," Dumbledore said
      gravely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's important to remember that Dumbledore only calls people to
      his office when he wants to manipulate them into doing something
      for him. Or to manipulate them into learning some sort of moral
      lesson. Sometimes both.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been nearly a day since we first attempted to floo into
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius had successfully made it through, but the green fire
      merely fizzled when Sirius tried to follow him. My right-hand man's
      robes still occasionally released puffs of smoke as we anxiously
      waited by the fireplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whaddaya bet he got captured and gave us all up?" Sirius
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up, Black," Rodolphus Lestrange growled at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come on. This is <em class="calibre8">Lucy</em> we're talking about. I bet
      he told them everything the moment they pointed a wand at him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed that, once again, Sirius Black had said what we were
      all thinking. I sighed heavily. "Well, Rookwood and Hagrid are
      watching the front door, so we're prepared if Dumbledore tries to
      break in. I presume the wards haven't alerted you of anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned, no doubt thrilled to present me with good news.
      "Nope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just don't understand how this happened. The plan was
      foolproof!" I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I bet Bellatrix warned them," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rodolphus sneered at him. "She's been dead longer than we've
      been planning this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, she knew Trelawney," Sirius said. "Unless you're doubting
      our prophetess?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, of course not," he muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Earlier, I had ventured to the third floor, where the air is
      thick with exotic perfumes and ancient magic. There, I had found
      Trelawney hunched over a table. Her nose was half-flattened against
      her crystal ball, her eyes squeezed shut to better see with her
      third eye. While she had no clear visions of Lucius's whereabouts,
      or his likely betrayal, she insisted that we remain at Grimmauld
      Place. It was, she told me, our only hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was torn from my musings as the fireplace roared to life. A
      robed figure stepped calmly from the green flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening, my lord, my fellow Death Eaters, Mutt," Severus
      said, nodding to each of us in turn but reserving a sneer for
      Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What in Merlin's name happened?" I snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently, an uninvited guest flooing into the Slytherin
      common room sends the entire castle into lockdown," Severus said.
      "We were stuck there for hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "Has Lucius been captured, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, my lord. When Dumbledore arrived to interrogate him, Lucius
      claimed that he was doing a surprise inspection for the Board of
      Governors. There was some suspicion when it turned out that the
      Board had not been aware of this, but he reminded us all that he
      did say it was a <em class="calibre8">surprise</em>," Severus drawled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's Lucius. He's always been good at slithering out of
      trouble," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed. Now, why is Lucius not reporting his failure to me
      personally?" I stroked my wand, causing the entire group to
      shudder, save Sirius. There is a reason he's my right-hand man,
      after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus said, "He was invited to dinner, and Dumbledore expects
      him to perform a slightly less surprising inspection of the school
      before he leaves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How unfortunate," I muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In happier news," Severus said, "Potter nearly got himself
      killed doing some sort of Dark ritual."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been fifty-seven years since I'd visited the Hospital
      Wing, but it hadn't changed much. The sickly smell of potions
      filled the air, mingling with the citrus scent left by years of
      heavy cleaning charms. The bed was slightly too hard, to subtly
      discourage students from lingering, and, even through the bandages,
      I could still see its painfully white walls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I heard Hermione lean towards me from her perch in the visitor's
      chair. "What have you learned today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a reason wizards wear glasses. Eyes are complicated," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She snorted. "True. What else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't just read the summary of a ritual in the book. There
      might be warnings or better instructions later on," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What <em class="calibre8">else</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I frowned. "I can't think of anything else. I'm pretty sure
      those are the only things I learned from this experience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about: Don't perform an untested ritual in the middle of a
      school-wide lockdown? Honestly, Harry, what were you
      thinking?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "I didn't want to be disturbed. It's not like I was
      invisible this time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madame Pomfrey couldn't get to you for hours," Hermione said.
      "You could have died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not died," I said. "Lost my eyes, maybe, but then I
      could just get better ones. Like Moody's."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are not getting fake, magical eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled. "Well, obviously not now. The ritual didn't go that
      badly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was silent for a time, probably reading. She does that
      a lot. "Harry, what was wrong with your old eyes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I did need glasses, and I wanted night vision."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you need night vision? You don't even do anything at
      night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not. Without night vision, that would be stupid," I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I heard a soft smacking sound, likely Hermione's palm striking
      her forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I added, "Also, I thought the whole slitted-pupil thing would
      look cool."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You thought…" – Hermione took a long, deep breath – "It
      doesn't, Harry. It's creepy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? I thought you liked cats," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A soft thump told me that she had leaned backwards into her
      chair, away from my bed. "This is ridiculous. It's not like your
      normal eyes aren't weird enough!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've told you! Red is a perfectly normal color for
      wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you really expect me to believe that? No one else has red
      irises, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know everyone. There's a Fourth-Year Slytherin girl.
      Ask Ginevra. She knows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She said, "Even Luna thinks they're odd. She doesn't think that
      about anything!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a very rare trait, like Parseltongue," I said. "It only
      appears in particularly pure lines –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your mother was a Muggleborn," Hermione said. I could sense her
      eyes rolling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You take that back!" I cried, lurching forward to point my wand
      in her general direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "Oh, come on. You've been complaining about your
      Muggle Aunt for years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squibs happen. Sometimes they squibble back. For instance, the
      Evans family are descendants of Merlin's third daughter, who was
      disowned for marrying a halfblood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I'm not a descendant of Merlin," I continued, proudly
      tapping my chest with my wand, "then how did I kill Voldemort as a
      baby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a long pause, Hermione asked, "Harry, are you in a lot of
      pain or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is some stinging while the optic nerve tries to
      reconnect," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," she said. "Usually your lies are better than this. No
      one is gullible enough to believe this tripe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "You don't talk to Slytherins much, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hardly think the house of the cunning would –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "You're looking at this like a Muggleborn. The
      Slytherins think that blood matters and know that I'm amazing at
      magic. So, I've given them two choices: They can either believe my
      ridiculous story, or they can accept that a half-blood is just
      innately better at them in terms of everything, fundamentally
      changing their worldview. Which choice do you think they pick
      <em class="calibre8">every time</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That actually makes a scary amount of sense. But, seriously,
      what is wrong with your eyes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was never letting this go. I exclaimed, "Fine! Dumbledore
      thinks that it's because my mother loved me a lot. I'm pretty sure
      that's his way of saying that she dabbled in blood magic."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The stack of cards and candies left by my hospital bed didn't
      surprise me. I was the most powerful student at Hogwarts, a genius,
      and the Boy-Who-Lived. Further, I would likely achieve
      professorship soon enough to teach the younger years. Attempts to
      curry favor were to be expected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But one of the gifts lay unsigned: A box of chocolates wrapped
      in a bow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lounging on my bed in the Gryffindor dormitory, I plucked a
      chocolate from the box and examined it. It was homemade, certainly,
      and it's easy enough to pour some potion in the mixing bowl. A
      quick sniff revealed a cloying scent, though that could be the
      result of too much sugar, and another round of detection spells
      revealed the same result as before: It had been tampered with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I should have thrown it out days ago, but curiosity stayed my
      hand. Was it a love potion, a prank item from the Weasley twins, or
      another assassination attempt?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The poison-detecting spells only told me that something was
      there. But that gave no insight into who was attacking me. Until I
      knew that, I couldn't retaliate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was tempted to take a bite of the chocolate just to find out.
      Thankfully, I have people for that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, taste these for poison."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The redhead jumped a bit in surprise, whipping his head towards
      me with a startled, "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just kidding," I assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He frowned. "Uh, mate, you're doing that thing where you say
      you're kidding, but then you get this smug look on your face that
      makes me pretty sure you aren't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I glared at him. "Excuse me for trying to be nice. All I wanted
      to do was offer you chocolate, but then you doubted me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's eyes glazed over at the mention of chocolate. His mind is
      incapable of keeping track of two things at once, and food will
      always be his priority.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a triumphant smirk, I continued, "Fortunately for you, I am
      a kind and generous master. Would you like some chocolate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In retrospect, I probably shouldn't have let him eat the entire
      box.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Ron's managed to overdose on love potion," I declared,
      descending the Boys' staircase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes widened, and she scrambled towards her bag in
      search of her Potions' textbook. "Will he be alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I slumped into the nearest chair. "He'll be fine. <em class="calibre8">We'll</em>
      be miserable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione flipped open her book, asking, "Do you know what kind
      of potion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hard to tell. It was fairly fast-acting. Definitely not
      Amortentia. Wrong scent," I said. "We lucked out, really. At least
      he can't embarrass himself, this way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced up from her book. "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Between the ridiculous amount of potions in his system and all
      the chocolate he ate, he can't stand. Of course, I tied him down to
      be sure. We should probably induce vomiting, soon, if he hasn't
      already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what?" Hermione's voice squeaked. Huh. I'd never taken her
      for the squeamish type. "Harry, we should probably take him to the
      Hospital Wing –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "Ron can't run to the Hospital Wing every time
      something happens. He's there enough because of his
      lycanthropy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron is not a werewolf," Hermione said, studying a page on
      bezoars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He'll never accept himself if you keep making excuses for
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can ask Slughorn –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head. "He'll demand payment. Trust me, you don't want
      to owe him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She scowled at me. "We can buy an antidote, then!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stared at her in horror. "Ron can't afford that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're the ones who'll be paying," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I felt the familiar sting of betrayal. "I finally discover my
      family fortune, and the Weasleys are already trying to steal it. I
      always knew this would happen, but I didn't expect it so soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, we can't just let him sit up there in love with some
      love potion-brewing witch!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes we can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gaped at me in a very Weasley fashion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sighed. "Hermione, look. We can't just bail Ron out every time
      he eats something he shouldn't. This is the only way he'll build up
      an immunity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fairly certain there's no such thing as an immunity to love
      potions," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course there is," I said. "You just tie yourself up and
      throw up every time it happens. Eventually, you become nauseous the
      second you feel the effects of a love potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's lips pursed, and her eyes grew distant as if solving
      a complex Arithmancy equation. "So…anytime you feel love,
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. "I guess. Isn't it different when a potion causes
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure," Hermione said, appearing deeply concerned at her
      lack of knowledge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile, Ron's wailing had apparently overpowered my Silencing
      Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Romilda Vane!" he cried. It could have been worse, I suppose.
      At least he wasn't in love with his sister.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll have to watch him in shifts to make sure he doesn't
      accidentally kill himself. There's also a key period about six
      hours in when he's both obsessed enough to attempt escape and lucid
      enough to succeed. We should probably double up on that shift."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was silent for a few moments, no doubt memorizing my
      instructions, before sighing and heading towards the Boys'
      Dormitory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Over her shoulder, she said, "Right. I'm taking him to the
      Hospital Wing."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I stood upon my bed, smiling at the three students gathered
      below me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to this emergency meeting of the Junior Order of the
      Phoenix. Not many of you could make it, so let's keep this short.
      Bellatrix is definitely dead, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup!" Ginevra chirped. "Our spies were really upset about
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No surprise, there," Neville said. "After all, Rodolphus and
      Bellatrix were so in love. So very in love."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least their child lives on as a symbol of what's been lost,"
      Luna said happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I blinked. "Wait, they had a kid? Why was I not informed of
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a secret. The people in on it probably wanted to spare
      your feelings," she said. "You have Bellatrix's eyes, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna, I am not the lovechild of Bellatrix and Rodolphus
      Lestrange," I said slowly. "I'm pretty sure we would have noticed
      that before. Wouldn't we have?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Definitely!" Ginevra said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville said, "Don't you have something to say. About this
      situation. And how odd it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I suddenly remembered the purpose of today's meeting and
      returned to our script. "Oh. Yes, it's very strange that Voldemort
      hasn't caught our other spies yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginevra said, "Especially since they're our old spy's husband
      and brother-in-law. Does he really think they hadn't notice that
      she'd switched sides?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Dumbledore always said that Voldemort doesn't understand
      basic human relationships," I mused. "Also, he's an idiot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment, I slammed my head against the bedpost as hard as
      I could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, it wasn't me, exactly. It was Voldemort. I could feel the
      faint echoes of his fury as he retreated from my head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have done well," I said, rubbing at my forehead. "I am
      mildly grateful to you all for gathering on such short notice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anytime," Neville said, grinning. I feared that his
      bloodthirstiness would soon rival Hermione's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna giggled. "I was just following the Wrackspurts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll do anything for you," Ginevra said. Bellatrix was dead,
      but it seemed that her legacy lived on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We probably shouldn't tell Hermione about this," I said.
      "She'll only get upset, and she's already busy planning vengeance
      for Ron."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stood as I entered his office, his sleeve swooshing
      down to cover his blackened hand. Shrugging the invisibility cloak
      off of my shoulders, I held up a silvery vial.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore said, "I didn't expect you so soon, my boy. Surely
      Horace didn't part with his memories easily."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was right. The manipulation required to convince
      Slughorn would take far too much time and effort to be worth the
      trouble. So I'd decided to use <em class="calibre8">my</em> memory of the
      conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am his favorite student," I said. "Although you probably
      shouldn't mention this to him. I had to obliviate him of the
      incident."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed, clearly disappointed that I was operating
      independently of his orders. "Was that truly necessary?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was for his own protection," I said airily, wandering over
      to the pensieve and uncorking the vial.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We leaned forward, tumbling deep into the basin before thudding
      onto the floor of the Potions' classroom. Slughorn was busy telling
      me that I would make a great Minister of Magic (still true). The
      man paused thoughtfully when I mentioned the word, Horcrux. "That's
      very Dark stuff, Tom. Very Dark."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's why I asked you about it," my younger self said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I meant to imply that he was a knowledgeable and influential
      pureblood. Depending on the definition he was using, however, he
      might have translated it to mean something along the lines of: I
      think you enjoy torturing small animals in your spare time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, that made no sense in context, so I presume he
      understood. If he didn't, he probably would have refuted the
      statement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…A Horcrux is the word used for an object in which a person has
      concealed part of their soul," Slughorn prattled on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My younger self frowned. "I don't quite understand how that
      works, though, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you split your soul, you see –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I understand the mechanics. I meant to say: What is a
      soul?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore appeared deeply troubled, and Slughorn laughed
      weakly. "Surely you know what a soul is, Tom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Irritation colored Tom Riddle's tone. "I understand the concept,
      sir. But this isn't some vague idea of your mind or emotions or
      anything like that. It's a physical object. You can cut it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's more of a tear," Slughorn said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded. "Tear it, then. So, does it go perfectly in half
      every time? Or does just a sliver come off? How big <em class="calibre8">is</em> the
      soul? Let's say you make, I don't know, ten Horcruxes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten!" Slughorn exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom continued, "At what point would you run out of soul? What if
      more of your soul is in the objects than in you? Can you walk
      around with nearly no soul? Does that have negative
      consequences?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd actually learned the answer to that last one. The
      Horcrux-making process isn't harmful at all. In fact, it hurt less
      every time, so it probably makes you better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn chortled. "The only people who make Horcruxes are
      insane Dark Lords. No one's researched this, Tom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My younger self softly said, "What a pity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore and I fell upwards, through the ceiling and back into
      his office. He turned to me, asking, "Do you understand what you
      must do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to make Horcruxes of my own," I said firmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore frowned, reaching over to stroke Fawkes. "Ah, no, I'm
      afraid not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I said, "Are you sure? Slughorn <em class="calibre8">really</em> sold me on
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite sure, my boy. You see, Voldemort's Horcruxes are what's
      kept him alive all these years" – Dumbledore scowled – "He may have
      as many as ten."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No he doesn't," I said. After a moment, I rephrased. "I mean:
      NO! I don't believe it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As much as I wish to think the same, Voldemort has always been
      a twisted man," Dumbledore said. "If you'll excuse me, I have much
      to think on, and, if you hurry, you might be on time for Defense
      Against the Dark Arts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I strolled towards the door, looking forward to a peaceful hour
      in the Gryffindor common room.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius bowed to me before entering the sitting room. He nodded
      coolly to Severus and Sirius, as well, then said, "I have a new
      plan, my lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned. "Does this one suck, too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My plans do not <em class="calibre8">suck</em>," Lucius hissed, shaking his
      silver fist at the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be fair, that flooing idea was atrocious," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius looked as if he had just sucked on a lemon. He never was
      any good with constructive criticism. "I assure you, this one is
      better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didja check it with Trelawney?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not yet," Lucius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what are you waiting for? Unless you want to waste our
      lord's time with a plan that's doomed to failure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius stormed away, glaring at anyone who dared to look at him.
      Severus turned to Sirius, drawling, "You haven't changed in the
      slightest, Black. Still the same impudent, attention-seeking,
      bullying…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus trailed off as Sirius bowed repeatedly to an imaginary
      audience. A few minutes later, he straightened, grinning. "Yup!
      That's me. Sirius Black, at your service."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hate you," Severus said. Sirius threw an arm around his
      shoulder, ruffling the other man's hair. Severus's wand snapped
      into his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, may I explain my plan?" Lucius asked from the doorway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius let go of Snape, playfully shoving him forward. "I dunno.
      That seemed awfully fast. I bet you didn't talk to Trelawney, at
      all. What do you think, Snape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of these days, I will kill you in your sleep," Severus
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you agree with me, then," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius said, "I moved quickly because I didn't have to explain
      anything to her. She already knew and approved. Unless
      <em class="calibre8">you're</em> doubting our seer, Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius put up his hands in a gesture of surrender. "No, never.
      That woman's a genius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My lord?" Lucius implored, turning towards me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I really did want the man to redeem himself after his earlier
      failures. He was such a good minion. With a thin, lipless smile, I
      said, "Go ahead, Lucius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was speaking with the Board of Governors. It seems there's
      been a sudden drop in academic performance. Several parents have
      expressed concern. Therefore, I suggested that we choose a day to
      allow parents into the school. That way, they can see their
      children and discuss their issues with his or her head of
      house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I fail to see how this is relevant to our plans to kidnap Harry
      Potter," Severus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I find it completely obvious," I announced. "Continue, Lucius,
      for Severus's sake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius smiled weakly. "Of course, my lord. Many of your Death
      Eaters have children in Hogwarts. It would be perfectly reasonable
      for them to visit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's brilliant!" I declared. "We can even send in Sirius
      Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, how's that work?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are Harry Potter's godfather. Or was I misinformed of
      this?" I asked, sending a warning glare in Lucius's direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah, but I'm pretty sure somebody else is taking care of
      him, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would think that, but you would be wrong," Severus
      drawled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius said, "Oh, come on. They must have given him to
      Remus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus said, "He's a werewolf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alice Longbottom was his godmother –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. She always did like that sort of thing," Sirius
      muttered. "What about the rest of the Potters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They disappeared," Severus said. "It was very
      <em class="calibre8">mysterious</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably my fault," I admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius set his mouth in a firm line. "Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pawned the boy off on Muggles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius wrinkled his nose. "Oh, he's one of <em class="calibre8">those</em>
      wizards. Who were the Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lily's sister and her family," Severus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That bint?" Sirius barked. "He'd have been better off with
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus raised an eyebrow. "I am a Death Eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And a werewolf," Lucius added. "I think we've all heard the
      rumors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clearly, Sirius has the best claim to Potter," I said.
      "Therefore, it wouldn't be strange at all for him to go in with the
      other parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Totally normal," Sirius agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius's eye twitched. "My lord –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Leave me, Lucius," I said, waving the blond away. "I'm
      scheming."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd successfully avoided the Hospital Wing for decades, yet
      there I was mere days after my last visit. I sighed, making my way
      over to the bed where Ron was clutching a small mountain of letters
      to his chest. He stopped glaring at Hermione when he caught sight
      of me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Ron cried. "Harry, Harry, Harry! You…you gotta help me,
      mate. You have to take these letters to Romilda Vane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sneered at him. "I'm not your servant. Have Hermione do
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't trust her. She burned the last ones. I think she's
      jealous," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded. "She's probably still upset about Draco, though I
      can't say I understand the attraction. The boy's a terrible coward.
      He hasn't attempted <em class="calibre8">any</em> of my trials."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not attracted to him. I never was." Hermione believes
      that, if she says something enough times, it will suddenly be
      true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, so, you'll help me?" Ron asked. Before I could respond, he
      gushed, "You are the best. My best mate. These are all for my
      Romillie, 'cept this one. It's for Remus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned, snatching the letter over Ron's protests.
      "Professor Lupin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His life is so haaaaard," Ron whined. "You should let him join
      your army. I think he'd like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione groaned. "I don't have an army."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smirked. "Do you spend <em class="calibre8">all</em> of your time in denial, or
      just most of it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," she said with a roll of her eyes. "We have letters to
      deliver."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As we left the Hospital Wing's doorway, Hermione set my pile of
      letters ablaze. I yelped, dropping them to the floor as she said,
      "I hope he's better by the time his parents visit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His parents?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the parent-teacher conferences, of course," Hermione said
      primly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, I think I heard about that," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not many Gryffindor parents are coming. It's mostly
      Slytherins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not surprised," I said. "I hear they still don't have any
      furniture."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently, some idiot put Sirius Black's name up as a joke,"
      she said, lips pursed in disapproval.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of idiots, I didn't expect Ron to still be so out of
      it. I thought Pomfrey was going to give him the antidote."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's voice was flat. "She did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I winced. "Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carrying Ron's letter to Lupin towards the Owlery, she said.
      "Honestly, how much love potion did Vane give him?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The boat slid soundlessly across the lake, not even a ripple
      left in its path. I peered down at its Inferi inhabitants, looking
      for anyone I recognized, and exclaimed happily upon spotting Dorcas
      Meadows. Sitting across from me, Dumbledore seemed to be directing
      an imaginary symphony with his blackened hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster?" I said. "I'm glad you took me on this journey and
      hope that you will continue to do so for all subsequent
      Horcrux-gathering missions, but…Don't you have parent-teacher
      conferences today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore chuckled. "No, no, parents would only come to me if
      they had a problem with one of the professors. I have the greatest
      confidence that such a thing won't be necessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised an eyebrow. "So, you're avoiding all the complaints
      about Snape, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dear boy, I'm hunting Horcruxes. I dare say this is the more
      pressing concern," Dumbledore said. I sometimes wonder why I am the
      only person who notices his selfish manipulations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could have done this tomorrow," I pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps, but then you would have missed class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And rob you of a well-earned weekend?" he asked, shaking his
      head dramatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We disembarked and approached a potion-filled basin at the
      island's center.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked at me gravely. "I'm afraid that this potion
      cannot be banished or physically removed. The only way to get to
      the locket inside is to drink it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am <em class="calibre8">not</em> doing that!" I shouted, scrambling towards
      the safety of the Inferi-infested lake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Dumbledore assured me with a cold smile. "I am
      the one who shall drink it. I suspect it will be terribly painful,
      possibly deadly. You may even have to force-feed me, in the end
      –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Woah, woah, woah," I said, waving my wand around to get his
      attention. "That seems pretty extreme."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was <em class="calibre8">not</em> going be the sole witness to Albus
      Dumbledore's mysterious death. That would raise all sorts of
      suspicions, and then no one would let me work with children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a ritual," Dumbledore said. "To take a part of Voldemort's
      being, I must give a part of mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort's paranoid, though. He probably wouldn't want to
      poison someone to death every time he checked on his Horcrux,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded slowly. "I suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, he probably put in a back door. A password or something. In
      Parseltongue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stepped forward, hissing, "<em class="calibre8">Slytherin. Slither
      out."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It may seem cheesy, but that's actually the most complicated pun
      you can make in Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore seemed surprised (almost certainly a ruse) as the
      emerald potion drained from the basin. "Harry, how did you know the
      password?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are only three syllables in Parseltongue. It's mostly a
      matter of context and intonation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a Parselmouth, then?" he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeees," I said slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore leaned forward, peering into my eyes atop his
      half-moon glasses. "Harry, were you the Heir of Slytherin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" I snapped. "I don't know why everyone thinks that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's alright if you were. No one was hurt, and you've been a
      paragon of the Light ever since," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not the Heir," I grumbled, snatching the locket from the
      now-empty basin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I looped it around my neck as we rode silently back across the
      lake. Something bothered me, however. The balance was off, too
      light and slightly lopsided, possibly a result of its prolonged
      exposure to the poisonous potion, but still…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I opened the locket, and a taunting note fell out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Elsewhere, Lord Voldemort felt a sudden and inexplicable flash
      of rage.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You must look at the bright side, my boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I glared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore cheerfully continued, "At least Voldemort does not
      possess the locket."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was half of the problem. Voldemort <em class="calibre8">should</em> have the
      locket, and, by Voldemort, I mean its rightful owner: Me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I didn't drink a mysterious yet certainly dangerous potion
      to retrieve a mere decoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I threw the locket at him, and the wizard happily pocketed
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We came upon the gates of Hogwarts, which were badly dented and
      hung half-open. The grounds were torn up, and several trees had
      been slashed with a sword. Families were still hanging around,
      trading tearful goodbyes or nursing minor wounds. Among them were
      Ron (telling his family all about the love of his life), Ginevra
      (whose hair was several inches shorter than earlier that day), and
      Neville (with a bloody sword slung across his shoulders).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna was trying to balance on one foot, but, when she spotted
      me, her enthusiastic wave sent her tumbling to the grass. "Hello,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, I leave the grounds for one day and everything ends
      up destroyed. What in Merlin's name happened?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"WHAT IN MERLIN'S NAME HAPPENED?" I roared, glaring at my
      bedraggled group of Death Eaters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius Black shoved Lucius forward, natural since it was his
      foolish plan that had led to this mess. "My lord, I'm afraid that
      someone recognized Sirius Black and mobilized an attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't imagine why. He's been on the conference list for some
      time," Severus drawled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It turns out that several members of the Order of the Phoenix
      have children at the school and were battle-ready," Lucius
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some kid showed up with the Sword of Gryffindor, which was
      bloody awesome," Sirius added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, for one, was shocked," Severus said. "Longbottom is
      <em class="calibre8">failing</em> Defense Against the Dark Arts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fenrir Greyback said, "Then there was some Weasley babbling
      about Werewolf Rights."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Weasley is well known for his idiocy," Severus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He had some pretty good points, actually. I tried to turn him,
      but he got me with a stunner," Fenrir said, rubbing his
      still-frozen arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was crazy," Goyle said. "That Romilda Vane girl sure is
      lucky."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno what that blonde chick was doing, but we still haven't
      found Rookwood," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…and, then, it turned out that Potter had left on some sort of
      field trip, so we retreated," Lucius finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," I murmured, stroking Slytherin's locket. Earlier, I'd
      had a sudden urge to check on the Horcrux, only to nearly trip over
      its pedestal on the way out the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I asked, "Sirius, is there any particular reason this locket was
      sitting in your parlor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My right-hand man shrugged. "Maybe you gave it to me for
      safekeeping?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The locket jostled slightly at my nod, then settled warmly
      against my chest. "Right. That does seem like something I would
      do."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"…fifty points to Luna Lovegood. For the most exquisite haircut
      I've seen since my childhood, fifty points to Ginevra Weasley. For
      identifying Sirius Black and dueling him to a standstill, fifty
      points to Hermione Granger…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently, the latest battle had created quite a few heroes.
      Dumbledore had been going on for twenty minutes. His skin was grey,
      his eyes dull, yet still he spoke. The students were whispering
      among themselves, and even the castle was beginning to grow
      anxious, if the dancing silverware was any indication.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…For Gryffindor bravery, quick feet, and <em class="calibre8">sharp</em> wit,
      fifty points to Neville Longbottom…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students laughed, clapping Neville on the back. I'm not sure
      why. Dumbledore was clearly insulting him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…For a stunning performance, fifty points to Ronald Weasley.
      Finally –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A loud cheer greeted this statement, and Dumbledore paused until
      it quieted. "For demonstrating foreign language proficiency in a
      poisonous situation, fifty points to Harry Potter. It appears that
      Gryffindor has won the Cup. Congratulations to Gryffindor and to
      everyone who fought in this battle. Now, I can hear your stomachs
      rumbling from here. So, without further ado –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I speak, Headmaster?" I said, standing up to survey the
      disappointed crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "Mr. Potter, you no longer have the authority
      to add or remove points."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's fine," I said with a negligent wave of my wand. I turned
      to the crowd. "Many of you fought bravely, yesterday. Many more of
      you hid like firsties, most especially the firsties. Clearly, the
      Dark Lord is a dangerous foe, willing to hurt children on a whim
      and ready to take Wizarding Britain under his reign. Keeping that
      in mind, I would like to announce that I am no longer neutral on
      the Voldemort Issue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I sat down, and the Leaving Feast appeared with a joyous
      pop.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: Merry Christmas, everyone...and a joyous Thursday
      to everyone else!</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
