<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux - Seventh Horcrux Chapter 4: HP vs Remus Lupin (Pt 1), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter Seventh Horcrux"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: HP vs Remus Lupin (Pt 1)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Seventh Horcrux</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Ch. 4: Harry Potter vs. Remus Lupin (Pt. 1)</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was concerned about my Horcruxes. If a Weasley was capable of
      stealing one of them, then they weren't nearly as safe as I had
      presumed. My first instinct was to gather up my poor soul pieces
      and never again let them out of my sight. Unfortunately, after many
      hours of deliberation, I decided that I couldn't risk hiding five
      Dark artifacts under my bed, at least not with Dumbledore's keen
      eyes always upon me. Watching.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet, after destroying Diary, I was left with only four
      Horcruxes, two less than I'd originally intended. For my own peace
      of mind, I would have to create a new one. Now, I just needed to
      find someone I wanted to kill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That shouldn't be too hard. Used to happen all the time.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I skimmed the Prophet, whose title proclaimed the escape of
      Sirius Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My right hand man, hm. You think I'd remember something like
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrugged. I'd certainly forgotten more important things over
      the past twelve years. Besides, the Blacks were a Dark family, so
      of course he was one of mine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a pity to lose him. After all, not every minion could
      escape from Azkaban. That's the sort of talent that can conquer a
      nation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I almost regretted abandoning my previous activities. But not
      quite.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dementors!" I ranted. "What could possibly convince Dumbledore
      to bring dementors into the school?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "It's just to keep us safe from Sirius Black,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, right, <em class="calibre8">of course</em> it is. They're protecting us
      from an emaciated, wandless convict who <em class="calibre8">might</em> want to kill
      some of us by hiring a hundred Dark creatures that
      <em class="calibre8">definitely</em> want to eat all of our souls. However did I
      forget?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dementors are terrifying. I might have cut up and scattered my
      soul, but I assure you, I'm quite attached to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I really needed to make that Horcrux. Surely no one would miss a
      Weasley or two?</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"The grim!" Trelawney cried, skeletal hands fluttering around
      her mouth. "You're in grave danger, Mr. Potter. Very grave
      danger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm always in grave danger," I said. It wasn't like I sought
      out these things, precisely. It's more that getting what I want
      often involves dangerous situations, and I happen to be
      immortal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could die," she insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the Gryffindor girls, probably Lavender, shrieked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I snorted. "Not likely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've heard you do this every year," Hermione snapped. "Tell
      some poor student they're going to die and scare them. But they
      never do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come to think of it," I mumbled. "Why don't you ever predict
      the deaths that actually occur? Like the Perks girl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed. "Harry, Sally-Anne moved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that's what they told us," I said, patting her
      reassuringly on the arm. "Of course, most of those deaths are First
      or Second Years, who naturally wouldn't have your class. I imagine
      you wouldn't even see them except in the Great Hall…Wait, is
      <em class="calibre8">that</em> why you never come to meals?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…" Trelawney was taken aback at my insight. "Yes, I'm afraid
      that's true. A prophecy, once spoken, can never be averted you
      know. And it's such a terrible thing to see those poor, doomed
      children. Now, back to your teacups, everyone. I can sense your
      third eyes fluttering shut!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't have Dark Magic!" Ron yelped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I suppressed an exasperated sigh. "Ron, all pure-blood families
      have Dark Magic. If you don't know about yours, it's because your
      family doesn't trust you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horror filled his Weasley eyes. "Why wouldn't they trust
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the sixth son, Ron. That's easily three more sons than
      they need. They won't tell you a thing until you've proven yourself
      worthy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He leaned forward, desperate to learn more. "How do I do
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I thought for a moment. "Have you tried asking? That would show
      that you're smart enough to know about these things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned, clapping me on the back. "Thanks, mate. You're the
      best."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A Howler chased Ron out of the Great Hall, spitting smoke and
      screeching.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HOW DARE YOU ASK US ABOUT DARK MAGIC! JUST WHAT EXACTLY ARE YOU
      DOING IN THAT SCHOOL, RONALD BILIUS WEASLEY? WHY, I SHOULD…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I bit into a piece of bacon, contemplating the very public
      response. A brilliant ploy. The Weasley matriarch was cunning,
      indeed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we go back inside, now?" I whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had forced me to attend a Quidditch match because I
      <em class="calibre8">owed</em> him for the Howler incident. The intricacies of
      maintaining a friendship never ceased to baffle me. I'd usually not
      bother with such things. However, the boy's loyalty depended upon
      his delusion that he was my "best mate," and it would take months
      to break in a new Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I groaned. "But it's pouring rain!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what? You're not even wet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione asked, "Why is that, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Harry Potter," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't mean any-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, look, the game's starting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione fell into a disgruntled but obedient silence while the
      players zipped about in the rain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quidditch, such a ridiculous game. It's entirely reliant upon
      the skill of the seeker, unless one team is ridiculously
      outmatched, in which case the seeker is superfluous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Furthermore, the Quidditch games' points are far too tied into
      the House Cup, which irked me greatly during my first time as a
      student. There I was answering questions, acing tests, charming
      professors, and earning loads of points, only for one clumsy seeker
      to ruin our chances of winning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I do not lose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, I convinced the Ravenclaw and Slytherin seekers to
      sit on the field for a week while their chasers racked up so many
      points that one of our Houses would win even if the teachers
      blatantly cheated in favor of the others. That was the first year I
      won the House Cup for Slytherin and the reason that Hogwarts games
      are no longer allowed to last more than three days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pleased at my victory over foolishness, I'd cheerfully gone back
      to ignoring the sport.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is boring," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's face wrinkled with the effort of thinking. "What do you
      mean? Didn't you see that dive by Spinnet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes, I'm sure it was very nice. I didn't notice because it
      is <em class="calibre8">pouring rain</em>. It's also freezing out here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione asked, "Didn't you cast a warming charm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I cast a warming charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did, too," she said slowly. "So why is it so cold?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I peered through the thick rain and the mist of my icy breath
      until I finally spotted the cloak of a dementor. I could feel
      misery creeping into my already frustrated mind, turning the world
      even dimmer than it already was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dementors both cause and feed off of unhappiness. Trying to
      dredge up happiness in their fog is insanely difficult and bound to
      work for only a fleeting period.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's far easier to grow angry. How dare they make you sad!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That way, they'll focus on your depressed companions while
      leaving you alone. If you haven't escaped by the time everyone else
      is eaten, you deserve death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, blinding fury is not conducive to good
      decision-making.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow, Harry, I can't believe you charged a dementor!" Ron
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the same time, Hermione said, "I can't believe you would do
      something so stupid!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dementors have no natural predators, so they have no idea how
      to react to aggression," I said. Admittedly, this hadn't occurred
      to me at the time, but it certainly explained the creature's
      terrified flight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a good thing Professor Lupin cast a Patronus before you
      got hurt," Hermione continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could've taken it."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Only thirteen years old and Hermione Granger was already
      planning her first genocide. While I admired her precocious cruelty
      – I hadn't even dreamed of such things until I was at least sixteen
      – I just had to ask…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, why do you hate house-elves so much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She poked her head out from under the couch where she'd been
      hiding a malformed mitten. "I'm sorry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not judging," I hastily assured her, "just curious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I don't hate house-elves," she said. There was no
      particular reason for her to lie. It was nearly midnight, and the
      common room was empty of eavesdroppers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure why else you'd be doing that," I said, gesturing
      towards the hat she'd stuffed under a table leg.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stood up proudly and proclaimed, "I'm trying to free
      them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I blinked, attempting to make sense of her logic. "…You do
      realize that house-elves die when you free them, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Impressive actress that she was, Hermione flipped from cheerful
      to threatening tears in an instant. "W-what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, I sort of thought you knew," I said. "Free elves just
      lie down and die. They don't eat or sleep..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd seen it happen once, and, let me tell you, it was
      <em class="calibre8">hilarious</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sniffled. "I, um, didn't know. I went to the library, but
      there weren't many books talking about them. I suppose one book
      said not to free elves, but it was also full of t-torture
      techniques and, oh, it's all so awful!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She frantically began picking up the knitwear she'd hidden
      around the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I hummed thoughtfully. "Really, I'm not sure why you thought
      leaving clothes around would help at all. They do our laundry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paused. "I hadn't thought of that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked down at the clothing piled in her arms. "I don't
      suppose you want a hat or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I chuckled and placed an arm around my minion's shoulder.
      "Hermione, not even the house-elves want your hats."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">My classmates are so boring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Our latest Defense teacher had acquired a boggart – a creature
      capable of showing one's greatest fear. But what did it show? The
      murder of their loved ones? The destruction of all they held dear?
      My own impressive self, either as Lord Voldemort or Harry
      Potter?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, of course not. That would be entertaining. Instead, I had to
      suffer through ten straight minutes of acromantulas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin frowned as Ron's boggart skidded past on roller skates.
      "Another spider?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One killed our last Defense professor," Hermione informed
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It also petrified several students," I added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin said, "Acromantulas can't do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was enchanted by Salazar Slytherin," I said as the boggart
      morphed into a slightly taller, longer-fanged version of its
      previous form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Acromantulas really aren't that frightening. It wouldn't have
      even succeeded in slaying Lockhart if I hadn't hit him with a
      tripping jinx at a crucial moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, I decided to add a little interest to the proceedings
      by revealing my own boggart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Honestly, I wasn't certain what form the creature would take.
      Oh, sure, I had reasonable concerns, such as having my soul
      consumed by a dementor. Still, none of them would send me into a
      panic. Even death seemed less daunting after I'd successfully
      conquered it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stepped forward, shoving Lupin aside when he tried to block my
      path.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boggart leapt at me, its black legs turning blue and melding
      into robes. White fangs lengthened into a beard, and the creature's
      two remaining eyes twinkled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore," I hissed, raising my wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He chuckled, a sickening sound. "Dear boy, did you really think
      I wouldn't notice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I froze. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're just the same as the Dark Lord was at your age."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shrank away, insisting, "No. You're wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Riddiculus!" Lupin said when he noticed my panic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dozen tiny bows appeared in Dumbledore's beard. A few of my
      more simple-minded classmates started giggling. But I wasn't so
      naïve. He had worn his beard in a similar manner during my first
      raid of Diagon Alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would have to be a fool not to see it," Dumbledore said, "and
      I think we both know I'm not the fool I seem to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"R-riddiculus!" I cried. His robes turned to a pink dress, the
      frilly hem resting above his wrinkled, hairy knees. But, no, that's
      exactly the sort of thing he would wear, hoping to catch his
      enemies off guard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He smiled with false benevolence. "Don't we, T–?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"RIDDICULUS!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boggart fell, eyes dull and maggots crawling from his beard.
      I laughed hysterically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's dead," I gasped. "Oh, thank Merlin, he's finally
      dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boggart darted over to Hermione next, turning to a skeletal
      house-elf wearing nothing but a pair of poorly-knitted mittens.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">I sat in front of Dumbledore's desk, eyeing the various
      knickknacks surrounding me and wondering how many were secretly
      weapons. Though the headmaster seemed as serene as ever, I'm fairly
      certain his phoenix was glaring at me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lemon drop, Harry?" Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No thank you, sir," I said, unwilling to consume its
      still-unknown poison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know why you're here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My hand twitched towards my wand as I stifled the urge to flee.
      "No, I have no idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah" – his eyes began twinkling menacingly – "I was just
      speaking with Professor Lupin –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have an idea, now," I blurted out. He had finally put the
      pieces together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I rambled on, "It's the boggart, isn't it? Well, let me tell
      you, I am <em class="calibre8">not</em> afraid of you. That would be incredibly
      ridiculous since you are so obviously a kind, completely genuine
      protector of the Light. Practically a grandfather to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? I had no idea you thought so well of me," Dumbledore
      asked, leaning forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I nodded and tried to look very thirteen, possibly younger. "Oh
      yes! I'm thinking that my greatest fear is really of terrifyingly
      powerful wizards who know where I sleep. You're more a metaphor for
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would think Voldemort would be a more fitting example,"
      Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well, I don't know what he looks like," I said. "Also, I'm
      pretty sure he's dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I only wish I were so certain," he sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean, sir?" I squeaked. I was doomed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the night Voldemort was vanquished, I'm afraid he didn't
      die. In fact, I believe he came to Hogwarts two years ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Five steps to the door. Dumbledore was old and his reflexes
      weren't the best. I could probably make it, so long as the phoenix
      didn't go after me. If I ducked around a corner long enough to put
      on the invisibility cloak, I would probably be alright.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He said, "You seem nervous, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, um, don't like being called into a teacher's office?" I
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If I started running now, I could probably catch him by
      surprise. Unless that was what he expected me to do. Curse him and
      his elaborate traps…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I understand what your greatest fear is," he said
      gravely. "You believe that you're like Voldemort. Don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh…" I wasn't sure what facial expression would be appropriate
      for the occasion, but I was fairly certain that the terror
      currently overwhelming my features was not a good choice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard chuckled. "Allow me to set your mind at ease. You
      are nothing like Lord Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I gaped. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was a cold, cruel child with no friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In my defense, I was very devoted to my studies, and Dumbledore
      is exaggerating. Lots of people liked me. Except for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore continued, "He would never have gone to protect the
      Stone or set off into the Forbidden Forest to save his classmates
      from Slytherin's monster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Admittedly, I didn't do either of those things, but I certainly
      wasn't going to tell him that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Also" – his twinkle intensified – "I have it on good authority
      that he hated Quidditch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I forced a smile. "Wow, we really <em class="calibre8">are</em> nothing alike. I
      love Quidditch. If only I wasn't bullocks on a broom, I'd have
      joined the team by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you would have," he chuckled. "Are you certain you
      don't want a lemon drop?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very. I, um, should probably be getting back to my friends now.
      Goodbye, Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I left as quickly as I could without making it obvious that I
      was fleeing. Either I had miraculously escaped Dumbledore's
      suspicion – for now – or he was just toying with me, hinting that
      he would leave me alone so long as I remained an amiable,
      Quidditch-obsessed Gryffindor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I wondered if suffering under whatever Dark Magic Dumbledore
      possessed would be less painful.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, what are you still doing up here?" Hermione whispered,
      nose wrinkled at the heavy perfume and smoke that filled
      Trelawney's classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trying to open my third eye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first time around, I'd dismissed Divination as unnecessary.
      To my great distress, that seemingly unimportant gap in my
      knowledge led to my downfall, short-lived as it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes. "Don't tell me you're buying into all
      this tripe. Trelawney is obviously a fraud."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I smiled. Sometimes I forgot how little our group encyclopedia
      really knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Professor</em> Trelawney," I corrected, mimicking her
      tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though I teased her about it, I was glad to see this rebellious
      streak. It proved that she was waking up and seeing authority
      figures for what they were:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Idiots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon closer observation, I had cast aside my early assumption
      that Hermione was this generation's Bellatrix. Her obsession with
      rules, goody-two-shoes personality, intelligence, and hidden
      cruelty were far more reminiscent of my younger self.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pursed her lips. "Really, Harry, she hardly counts as a
      professor. She doesn't teach anything. At least not anything
      useful. You don't really believe that you're going to die, do
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Technically, I already had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, not, Hermione," I assured her, squinting into the
      mists of my crystal ball.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione huffed and stormed out. Her robes billowed behind her
      as she disappeared into the smoke of Trelawney's poorly ventilated
      room. She certainly had the theatrics of a Dark Lord.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps I should use Longbottom for my Horcrux.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had yet to swear an oath of unending loyalty, and Merlin
      forbid if the prophecy was correct and I'd picked the wrong
      child.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wouldn't be hard to cover up. I could pretend it was a
      Potions accident or something. Everyone would believe that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except, no, much as it pained me to admit it, Longbottom was as
      integral to Slytherin's House Cup victory as I was. Such a resource
      should not be wasted frivolously.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since I am substituting for Professor Lupin for the seventh
      time in as many months, I will preemptively inform you that our
      topic next month will once again be werewolves," Severus said
      dourly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't we do something else?" Ron groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten points from Gryffindor for questioning a teacher."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised my hand. "I don't suppose we'll learn how to kill them?
      I feel like I know a lot about werewolves but am ill-equipped to
      destroy one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smiled thinly. "Yes, I do believe that will be the topic
      of our next lesson. Good question, Potter…Twenty points from
      Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron flailed his arms around in confusion, threatening to knock
      over my inkwell. "But you said it was a <em class="calibre8">good</em>
      question!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten more points for disrespect," Severus said, sweeping out of
      the room. I tried not to look too obviously pleased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape's a git," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I shook my head, sighing. "Well, you can hardly blame him – what
      with his condition and all…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's obviously a werewolf," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Harry, that's ridiculous," Hermione huffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I raised a hand to silence her objections. "No need to cover for
      him. This is clearly a cry for help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've gotta be kidding me," Seamus Finnegan said. "Snape's a
      werewolf?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course he is. That's why he's been teaching about them every
      time he substitutes. It's all he knows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He does seem to know an awful lot about werewolves," Longbottom
      mumbled, looking a bit green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The class exploded into discussion, and I made sure to drag
      Hermione into the hallway before she finally exclaimed, "You don't
      seriously believe that Professor Snape is a werewolf?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Hermione, that would be ridiculous," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why would you say something like that? People are
      absolutely awful about werewolves. Do you know what that kind of
      rumor could do to his reputation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, which is why I don't appreciate him trying to out
      Lupin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked startled. "You know about that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape's been teaching about werewolves for months, and Lupin's
      gone every full moon. I'm not an idiot," I said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While I was growing concerned about my classmates' mental
      abilities, the truth is that I suspected Lupin long before his
      first class absence. You see, several of my minions were werewolves
      back when I was Lord Voldemort. I know the signs well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Hermione murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'm honestly offended that Snape is so intent upon ruining
      his colleague's life. Werewolves are perfectly reasonable people,
      so long as they're taking the proper potion. This rumor will
      provide a plausible explanation for Snape's actions and help to
      hide Lupin's secret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She beamed. "That's very noble –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, mostly, I thought it would be funny," I finished.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
