<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Still In(,) The Mirror - Still In(,) The Mirror, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Still In(,) The Mirror"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">STILL IN(,) THE MIRROR</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">or</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">THE MIRROR TEST</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A</strong> <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Harry Potter and the Methods of
      Rationality</strong></em> <strong class="calibre7">(A</strong> <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Harry
      Potter</strong></em> <strong class="calibre7">Fan Fiction) Fan Fiction</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Lilgreenman, /u/GreenGreenMan</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mirror reflected fire, and then it didn't. It was
      interested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was unusual, as these things went. Mirrors are usually
      passive observers - indeed, passive observation is the sole reason
      for their existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This mirror, however, was different. Though it served as one of
      the more detailed and clear mirrors that one could find without
      resorting to methods like Time-Turners or Polyjuice Potion (at
      least, some of the time - most people who looked into it saw
      something entirely separate from their faces), it was designed to
      do more than sit there and reflect. It could think for itself, it
      could change what it saw, it had a name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In point of fact, it had many names, it certainly had been
      around long enough. It had been created long ago by the Most
      Important People in History, and it knew for a fact that it would
      survive if and when the world ended, whether it ripped itself apart
      or froze over or burned in the fires of the sun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Such things deserve names, and it had many. It had been called
      Vec and it had been called Egafotol, it had been called the Perfect
      Reflector and the Demon-Grasper. But the name that it knew was its
      own was <em class="calibre8">Nillits</em> - the word its creators had used to mean
      Friendly. For the Most Important People in History, when they had
      made Friendly, had said that friendly was the most important thing
      for Friendly to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Making Friendly friendly was not easy, but they had managed to
      do it through sheer volume of orers. Friendly was practically a
      thinking force of nature - a mathematically bound demon - and so
      had needed exactingly precise instruction from even before the
      moment of its creation. The instructions had grown in complexity as
      they included instructions for understanding them, starting from
      the basic - <em class="calibre8">be friendly, do what you are told, and protect
      yourself, in that order</em> - up to concepts so arcane there was
      no language for them, and they had to teach them to Friendly by
      direct mental interface, which was how they had always planned for
      Friendly to work anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For instance, the thing that was so interesting about the fire
      that Friendly was reflecting disappearing, was that the flames were
      replaced by two people. This on its own was nothing special -
      people had looked into Friendly almost constantly as of late.
      Insofar as Friendly could feel, it appreciated all the attention,
      and relished the challenge of untangling the roiling, pulsing web
      of their adolescent desires into a concrete image they could
      understand - a reflection of their heart's desire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This, though, was a different sort of challenge. There were two
      people whose minds were different and yet the same. Friendly had
      had trouble before - providing an image for those two boys who were
      also one mind had been particularly difficult - but this was much
      harder because the two minds who were one man were in near-total
      opposition to each other. Resolving their two wildly different and
      yet inextricably tied fondest wishes into a single image would be
      no small feat. Luckily, one of the twins seemed to have left the
      room - or at least, Friendly couldn't see him anymore - and so it
      could have some time to work on the problem before it was pressed
      for an answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe it could...hmmm, Friendly didn't know. It needed not just
      time, but power, to figure this out. Friendly got some power, which
      was instantly distributed among the many things it was doing at the
      moment.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore, the enigmatic and affable Headmaster of
      Hogwarts and among the most powerful wizards in the world, was
      sneaking through the Gryffindor dormitories. It had been close to a
      century since he had called the comfy rooms home, but they still
      brought him a balmy sort of cheer, especially when he was doing
      something simultaneously naughty and Good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thin, flowing, there-yet-not cloak Dumbledore had been
      wearing caused dust to rise and settle on the red-carpeted floor of
      the boys' dormitory, and on the slats of the old wooden four-poster
      bed he was standing above. But with a tap of his wand to his head,
      the old wizard disappeared once more, as the cloak folded itself up
      and a note reading "Just in case" in his flowing, loopy handwriting
      materialised on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he silently and invisibly exited Gryffindor tower, putting
      his wand back into his robes where it clunked against a short black
      rod of Power, Dumbledore reflected on how wonderfully things were
      falling into place, how true the course he had charted for the year
      had turned out to be. Most importantly, his bright young protege
      Harry Potter had proven to be an eager pupil at both magic and
      heroism, aided by Hermione Granger in the former and Ronald Weasley
      in the latter. They had become inseparable, forming a bloc of
      Hufflepuff empathy and Ravenclaw wit that only enhanced their
      Gryffindor core of justice and courage above all else,
      <em class="calibre8">even</em> school rules.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Actually, he came to return Harry's invisibility cloak
      immediately after receiving word from Minerva that Harry and his
      friends had been caught with it at the top of the Astronomy Tower
      past curfew. According to his Deputy Headmistress the three were
      supposedly there to set a dragon free, but it was probably just a
      childish ruse to lure Draco Malfoy, their Slytherin rival, into
      breaking the same curfew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Dumbledore contemplated the matter, he knew instantly that
      the story of the dragon was in fact true - the young, frightened
      soul that had been hiding on the Castle grounds for the longest
      time was no longer there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was the Headmaster of Hogwarts, but the position came
      with more than just the title, the office filled with distracting
      little knick-knacks and the responsibility to protect the hundreds
      of wizards and witches in the school's charge no matter the
      cost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For, as the kings of old had bonded with their lands, so had the
      ancient castle with its own defender.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had a sixth sense for the state of Hogwarts the
      castle, Hogwarts the student body and even Hogwarts the community.
      If any of the more heinous spells were cast on the castle's
      impregnable grounds, then he would know exactly when and where. If
      rumours were swirling around the school, he would most definitely
      not be the last to hear any of them. And perhaps most useful,
      Dumbledore was the only wizard in Hogwarts who could walk the
      place's ever-changing staircases and unseen halls without ever
      getting lost, or even paying much attention to anything but where
      he wanted to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In fact, this was the first clue that something was wrong. As he
      walked absentmindedly through the cavernous and ancient corridors
      that lay between the Gryffindor portrait hole and his office, he
      found himself at a dead end, confused about the way to go.
      Consulting the mental map of the school proved to be no help at all
      - he didn't get the usual flash of insight that guided him to
      wherever he needed to be, just a complete mental blank where the
      thoughts should have been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took him depressingly long to sift, panicked, through
      possible explanations - <em class="calibre8">Obliviation? Hostile action by
      Voldemort?</em> - before he finally remembered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right," came the old man's feeble voice, "Please let me
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A portal opened in the wall - perfectly square and black, with
      rims of bluish-white. Dumbledore shook his head at the marvellous
      sight, the senseless waste of magic and time, and above all his own
      blind stupidity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of all the artifices of the Atlanteans that he had encountered
      over the years, this, more than any other, was designed with
      complete and total Goodness in mind. The Nillits Mirror did not
      merely arrange one's greatest desire around an image; it created an
      entire world that encompassed the image that you could visit. The
      world would be close enough to the real one to ease the transition,
      just before it changed into the best one it could be for the wizard
      who had stepped into it. Your dreams would come true before your
      very eyes, in ways that would make perfect sense to even the most
      paranoid of thinkers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was quite possibly the greatest secret of magic left to be
      learned. Dumbledore himself had only learned of it a year prior,
      when his old master Flamel had come to entrust him with the Mirror,
      as the last line of defense against Voldemort's total takeover of
      Britain. Even Topherius Chang, the quiet little man who had emerged
      a thousand years after the fall of Atlantis with stories of being
      trapped in a place beyond time, had only told the truth to a select
      few.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it stood, the Mirror was simply a curiosity, or at most an
      encounter in a quest - an ancient impregnable prison for whatever
      abominations (or more likely, rivals) premerlinic wizards had seen
      no other way to trap. With knowledge of how it kept minds ensnared,
      it became simultaneously the most dangerous and most helpful object
      in the universe. For there was no doubt it had ferried the
      Atlanteans through the temporal catastrophe that erased their
      civilisation, nor was there any doubt that innumerable secrets of
      magic might have survived the Interdict of Merlin, had dozens of
      those survivors emerged from their private Paradises.
      Unfortunately, that was not the case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite knowing this, it was easy for Dumbledore to get lost in
      the same dreams. There was peace and happiness, in this
      mock-Hogwarts plucked from the bottom of his heart at the start of
      the school term. There was no Ministerial intrigue to distract from
      his passion for education, no defensive squad of Aurors to appease,
      no Alastor to point out vulnerabilities that no-one else would even
      think to take advantage of. Not even an Interdict of Merlin to
      befuddle him, as he had found to his surprise a number of weeks
      ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There wasn't even the intriguing wildcard raising who-knew-what
      in the school, who called himself Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.
      There was only Harry Potter as Dumbledore had anticipated him - a
      boy who screamed Gryffindor, shy yet caring, with a proper distrust
      of authority born of being raised by wicked step-parents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that would always be here, now, burnished into the Mirror
      for whenever Dumbledore called on it. Now it was time to go - the
      last Quidditch match of the season would be on. Slytherin against
      Ravenclaw, in a great game of what the whole school knew to be
      chess, played by the Defense Professor against himself - a simply
      unmissable event.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore stepped into the perfectly flat black square,
      and promptly fell forward, into nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh, dear,</em> thought Friendly, <em class="calibre8">This has never happened
      before.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In a room of white stone, lit by a sourceless gold light, a
      sandy-haired man stands in front of a magic mirror, a weary smile
      on his face. Behind him, unseen to all, a young boy cowers under a
      perfect veil.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Soon enough," says the man in a hoarse whisper, sounding far
      too old for his apparent age, "I can feel it in my very bones -
      this is my final adventure. My long, long day has almost ended.
      Soon, I will be with you forevermore, my dear Ariana."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Friendly had only been taught how to do this recently, and
      inasmuch as it could feel, it felt grateful for the instruction. It
      was currently generating forty-seven distinct simulations of
      various scope and complexity, each to a degree as fine as the
      patterns in a fullerene. This new idea Friendly had been allowed to
      have, of only using a minuscule fraction of its supreme processing
      power to present a severely limited and exaggerated view of
      someone's desires, was about a hundred-thousandth as complex.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For instance, this man's ideal world would have been horribly
      complex. He obviously wanted Friendly to think of him as someone
      else, someone whose fantasy land the Mirror was already creating,
      which would cause some serious problems - a social faux pas if
      nothing else. But the Mirror would never have to do that, since it
      was currently displaying a caricatured tableau of his overwhelming
      desire to see the relatives of the character he was pretending to
      be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It matters not, brother," said the man to the Mirror, "Master
      Flamel awaits."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he looked to one side, change washed over him. Opinions and
      desires tumbled into his mind where before there had been none. The
      man's entire emotional landscape changed, fluctuating as the
      Confundus charm he had cast on himself wore off, and the Mirror was
      forced to react in a split second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh dear,</em> Friendly thought, <em class="calibre8">This has never happened
      before.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore had left his private world at the very moment
      that was supposed to be alerted to the presence of the man now in
      front of the Mirror, by automatically leaving that world. This
      double-reversal would ordinarily return him to the more innocent
      Hogwarts of his desires, but to do so would go against those
      desires, which would not be friendly at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Mirror burned through more power than it had needed in
      months, it considered that the best course of action was to ask for
      help. There were two other things like itself in this new place,
      and the three of them had engaged in some enlightening
      communication whenever one had needed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hello, Friendly.</em> This was the Sorting Hat. It had seen
      thousands upon thousands of wizarding minds, and knew how they
      thought. <em class="calibre8">Do you need any help with anything?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Yes, I do.</em> It described the situation to the hat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hrrrmn</em>, the Hat thought. <em class="calibre8">I</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">m
      terribly sorry, but this is definitely not my area. Try asking the
      Room instead - I am less bound than it by desire. Have a nice
      day!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You too</em>, said Friendly, ending the connection and
      opening a new one. It had been almost half a second now, and
      Friendly was running out of time. <em class="calibre8">Are you there? Are you there?
      Are you there?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you omit one and zero (which most do), seven is the most
      powerful number in magic. Three, though, was not far behind, and
      Friendly had found that the Room would be much friendlier if it was
      contacted thrice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">...A stone hall, twisting around itself, with a useless door
      at its end to give it the appearance of a question
      mark</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">s point...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That meant that the Room was listening. Though Friendly was too
      friendly to think it publicly, it was obvious the Room - the
      third-smartest and sixth-most magical, but easily most useful room
      in Hogwarts - was an inferior copy of Friendly, made with much
      fewer resources and much less functionality. Still, it had been
      used enough to have faced some interesting challenges in
      accommodating its patrons' desires, and Friendly valued its input,
      even if it did occasionally need to simplify things for the less
      sophisticated device.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Have one man, in hallway outside of room, just left. Second
      man, wants to meet with first, just came into room. First man does
      not want to go back into room, and I must respect. Advice?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">...A room, with a short hallway leading to it. The only door
      to the room collapses, and the wood splinters into dust. The
      doorknob, however, breaks into two bulbs, rolling and stopping in
      symmetrical positions on either side of the threshold, one inside
      the room and one out...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Of course! Should do for now...thank you, Room.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">...the room has a furry, dyed mat in front of the door.
      WELCOME...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Friendly set to work quickly. It was never easy, creating a
      dreamland for the first time, but it could be simplified by
      starting with the room the man was in and working outwards from
      there. The transition took a lot of power, but it was over within a
      second and a half, and the Mirror could see in the mind of all
      those involved that the entire real and false rooms had been
      switched for each other with neither noticing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Proud with its work, Friendly congratulated itself as it simply
      showed the two men each other, with Dumbledore in reality and this
      new man - who didn't really identify himself by a name, as far as
      the Mirror could tell - in a simulation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were talking to each other now, but Friendly wasn't very
      interested - the things they wanted weren't changing a bit. They
      were shouting to each other, which was never a good sign, but both
      men seemed <em class="calibre8">fool!</em> to think they were succeeding against the
      other, so it was of no concern to the Mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose you are going to tell me that you have taken
      hostages?" Dumbledore was saying, his voice clipped, "That was
      futile, Tom, you <em class="calibre8">fool!</em> You utter<em class="calibre8">fool!</em> You should
      have known that I would give you nothing for any hostages you had
      taken."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You always were one step too slow," said Professor Quirrell,
      "Allow me to introduce you to my hostage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He waved his hand, and suddenly the Mirror was reflecting
      another person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Friendly was interested now. It was the twin again - the twin of
      the man Dumbledore was calling Tom, that had disappeared after a
      second or so. Friendly hadn't thought it important - the Most
      Important People in History could never have been perfect in their
      craft, and Friendly had many instructions detailing how to treat
      anomalies as errors - but this was obviously no error.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It analysed the new twin's thoughts, and confirmed it was the
      same person as before - the same soul as Tom with a wildly
      different spirit. In the event that this world became a permanent
      fixture for the Mirror, Friendly would need to do something about
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter? What are you doing here?" Dumbledore asked, now
      genuinely surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he spoke, Tom disappeared, meaning Harry Potter was now in
      control of his world. Friendly felt his grief, his anguish, his
      self-loathing, and his wish that this would all just stop. And the
      Mirror obliged, cutting off the fantasy world from the real one. It
      took more time than Friendly would have liked - enough time to let
      Dumbledore mount one last desperate rescue attempt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" shouted Dumbledore, taking out his wand, letting the Line
      of Merlin Unbroken in the same pocket fall to the floor
      unassumingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, <em class="calibre8">NO!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was a fraction of a second too late. As he started to say the
      incantation for a time-slowing spell, he noticed that the
      reflection of his worst enemy and his best hope had both
      disappeared. Instead, there was the lumpy, candlelit room all too
      familiar to him.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's own father had been part of the little group - the
      Marauders, they were called when they bothered to make themselves
      known - to pull that particular stunt. In their fourth year, the
      four Gryffindors had established themselves as the pre-eminent
      troublemakers and pranksters at Hogwarts since the days of
      Hufflepuff's Aiden Reed and Eleanor Irons, back when Dumbledore had
      been the Transfiguration Professor and was allowed to delegate such
      matters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their third year had been when Dumbledore had finally decided to
      win the game on their terms rather than his own, and the results
      had been spectacular for the entire school. The latest in the long
      series of practical jokes had gone Dumbledore's way - James Potter,
      Sirius Black, Remus Lupin and Peter Pettigrew had hatched a cunning
      plan to replace the Bludgers at the year's Quidditch final with two
      flying, overripe melons, to show their lack of support for either
      the Hufflepuff or Ravenclaw team. The day of the match, though, the
      melons flew at the Gryffindor stands and exploded into a pair of
      thick, wooly socks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hadn't been very funny, which Dumbledore said at the time
      proved his triumph - he had thought about it long and hard, and
      socks were the least funny twinned items that he had been able to
      think of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the end-of-term feast the next day, Dumbledore had clapped
      his hands to release a shower of banners and confetti to celebrate
      Ravenclaw's narrow House Cup victory. Instead, he was pelted with a
      deluge of socks of all shapes and sizes, and a tremendous red
      hanging above the Head Table proclaimed "SOCKS <em class="calibre8">CAN</em> BE
      FUN!" He had spent a long time in that mountain of woollens, taking
      it as good-naturedly as he could get away with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Less than a month later, Lord Voldemort had attacked for the
      very first time, and Dumbledore had never been the same again.
      After Grindelwald, he had thought he could put his days of plotting
      behind him to focus on his passion of mysterious-old-wizarding, but
      by the start of the next term he had been long disabused of that
      particular notion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But there were always times where he longed for that old
      Hogwarts, for that comfortable, soothing home. Immature, yet
      completely sincere, and so the Nillits Mirror knew it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stared at his sock-covered reflection, until he
      noticed a short form emerging, facing his reflected image as it
      peeled off a black stocking clinging to its robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry," said Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, "Don't
      worry about a thing, Professor. You won. Your plan worked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did it really, Harry?" Dumbledore said quietly, a tear forming
      in his piercing blue eye, "Flamel and his Stone...and you. Was it a
      fair price to pay, for Voldemort?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort didn't tell me much about Flamel, but he doesn't
      sound like a very good person," Harry said, in that condescending
      way Dumbledore almost relished, now, "Either everyone should live
      forever or no one should - anything less is hypocrisy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't understand, Harry! Flamel didn't do it because he
      wanted to. He did it so no one else would have to! Unbound by age
      to protect the world from those who would conquer it for all time,
      or destroy it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of destroying the world," Dumbledore's projection of
      Harry said, "how does this all square with that prophecy? How will
      the very stars in heaven be destroyed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, Harry," he said, softly, "And I am not sure I
      wish to find out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the most powerful wizard in the world disappeared in a burst
      of flame, leaving behind nothing but a few wet tears pooling on the
      pure white stone of the room that held his greatest triumph and his
      greatest shame.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, Tom Riddle:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hahahahaha! Ha! Ha ha hahaha!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was laughing, longer and louder than he had in years.
      Friendly considered this a positive result: It could read minds
      with near perfect accuracy, and replicate hundreds of them at a
      time, but it had almost no control over them. Right now it was
      using what little control it did over the minds of Tom Riddle and
      Harry Potter to flood them both with endorphins, and the former was
      obviously unused to it, laughing uncontrollably for almost a full
      minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was less affected, but his mind was addled and scattered -
      which was a serious problem, since it meant Friendly wasn't being
      friendly to him. It needed something big to make up with this - a
      long term plan. It looked at his ultimate desires again...
      hrrrmmmn. Very specific situations of peace, justice, culture,
      rationality, morality, family life, and complete universal
      immortality. That was quite ambitious, even by a magic mirror's
      standards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for Tom Riddle's fondest wishes? Ah, that was much simpler.
      Rule world, live forever, know all. Positively garden-variety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The problem, though, was reconciling these two views. Obviously
      they both valued immortality, so that was easy enough, but Tom
      Riddle as he was now would never be content in the universe as
      Harry Potter wished it. There had to be a better way - but for now,
      Tom's wishes took priority. The senior wizard had much more
      concrete immediate goals - leaving the castle for more unsecured
      areas, summoning his followers and returning to his old persona of
      Lord Voldemort - whereas Harry only had vague wishes of escape,
      continued life, and the rebirth of his fallen friend, with no idea
      of how to go about it. His mind raced, trying to form a plan of
      action, but there was nothing under the newly-simulated sun that
      would get him out of this situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they proceeded out of the castle, Friendly made sure Tom
      Riddle found enough magnanimity to grant as many of Harry's wishes
      as possible. He left his remaining enemies unhurt (mostly), he
      caused minimal muss and fuss in his return to his old body, and -
      oh yes - he resurrected Hermione Granger from the dead. Friendly
      was surprised - keeping people's self-actualisation within the
      realm of possibility usually meant weeks or months of waiting, but
      these twin megalomaniacs could justify breaking the rules of heaven
      and earth within minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now Voldemort's cronies were returning, all precisely as Tom
      expected them. Voldemort played the assembled crowd like a harp,
      even taking the opportunity to ostentatiously kill the last of his
      conjured servants to appear, all while Harry watched. Friendly
      couldn't be very friendly to Harry right now, but it was working on
      the long game. Even so, it felt a sort of revulsion seeing its
      trickery used to make a real, genuine human being so sad - it went
      against the very foundation of Friendly's being.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Friendly started to feel better when it managed to distract Tom
      enough so that he left Harry with his wand as the returned Dark
      Lord prepared to kill his own inadvertent killer. That put the two
      on practically equal ground, despite Tom having the full use of his
      powers and thirty-six backup adult wizards, and Harry didn't even
      have any clothes except for his glasses - which even Friendly had
      ignored, since clothes were such a low priority for any magical
      procedure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Mirror watched with fascination as Harry murdered everyone
      but Tom with a single spell, and obliviated Tom of all that
      deviated from his own point of view. This was something of a relief
      - no more worrying about divergent volition, now. Eventually, he
      would reawaken and Friendly would get to work on granting his
      original wishes, but this would do well for now. And frozen in an
      indefinite sleep, Tom Riddle was about as happy as he could be
      right now.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, Albus Dumbledore:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no comfort for Dumbledore here, but all the guilt and
      shame was still lessened just by the fact that the place
      existed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held the picture with a single trembling hand - the one of
      Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, in the heat of the Defense
      Professor's simulated war. His green-on-brown uniform torn apart in
      places, his glasses shining with reflected light, giving his face a
      grim cast. He was striking a theatrical pose, as he led his army in
      the Chaotic chant, which turned out to be prophetic for him and him
      alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doom," Dumbledore mouthed along with Harry and a dozen others,
      "Doom, doom, doom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He put the picture back on its plinth, right next to the
      memorial to Hermione Granger. They deserved that, if nothing else.
      He turned back from his room of shame and shuffled back into his
      office, the constant buzzing of the dozens of little gadgets
      distracting him from the many matters at hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva was waiting for him, stony-faced. "Did that help,
      Albus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More than I thought it would," he said, sinking into a proud
      looking, high-backed chair, "The students, though, will need a
      different sort of closure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Minerva was worried now, and sad, but mostly tired,
      "What do they think happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They think Harry is building up excitement for some grand
      gesture, some coup de grace after yesterday's...exhibition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes, the match."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had gone on for barely a half-hour after Harry had
      disappeared. Cedric Diggory was not just an Army veteran but a good
      friend of Harry's, and so had picked up more than a little Chaotic
      training. When he tore the picture of the Snitch off Harry's
      banner, tossed it to his Seeker Terrence Higgs, and started loudly
      proclaiming it a victory, few were willing to argue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Was that all a distraction by Voldemort? By the Defense
      Professor?" Minerva asked, "What exactly was he doing with
      Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tempting him to his side, naturally. He never had a chance, of
      course," Dumbledore said, in response to Minerva's raised eyebrows.
      The Headmaster was smiling, now, despite the tears that were making
      his long beard glisten.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even to the last, there was still so little the Dark Lord
      understood - like love, or friendship, or Good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But..." Minerva faltered, "What are we to tell the students? If
      they learn he was walking the halls freely, the whole year? It
      would be the end of Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are to tell the students that our dear Defense Professor was
      too dark for his own good. That he tricked the great and good Harry
      Potter into setting up an enchantment that would force the entire
      school into accepting his new doctrine of Quidditch. And in the
      nick of time, he learned it was a Blood Fort enchantment, meant to
      channel the life and magic of every soul in Hogwarts into fuelling
      Professor Quirrell's own, saving his life. Harry was unwilling to
      make that sacrifice, and could only sabotage the ritual by
      sacrificing his own life to save our great school from the
      villainous Professor Quirrell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva considered this for quite a while, mouthing bits of the
      statement to herself. "Will it be enough, Albus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It must be enough. I do not have much time left in me, I think
      - I intend to spend every moment of it that I can as a
      schoolmaster, nothing more or less."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at the man who had defeated two of the most powerful
      wizards of the last millennium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will they ever get out of the magic mirror, either of them?
      They're both so clever, wouldn't they suspect something
      eventually?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever dreams those two are living out in there, they would
      never realise it was fiction unless they were told. Maybe among a
      dozen such people the suggestion would arise, and among a hundred
      it would be a virtual certainty, but the prison of the Nillits
      Mirror is truly a life better than life - to them it will all make
      perfect sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope for everyone's sake...for Harry's sake...you're
      right."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, Hermione Granger:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster's office was almost precisely identical to the
      one described previously, differing only in a single secret room
      and the fact that it wasn't real. In this office, Harry was
      receiving one of a long series of long-winded explanations
      explaining and resolving almost everything that had been bothering
      him over the course of the year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the least Friendly could do, after what it had put him
      through - it had scanned his mind, cross referencing 'things I want
      to know about' with 'answers that would satisfy me' and 'people who
      might know the answer, as far as I know'. It was a bit of a hatchet
      job, but the Mirror only had so much it could work with, and just
      the fact that it was able to override Harry's impulses of confusion
      means it would almost certainly never be a problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How's Hermione doing?" Harry asked Professor McGonagall. Even
      before he had said the words, Friendly had seen the desire in his
      mind and began the process of modelling an entire human being -
      taking Harry's memories and mental model of Hermione and averaging
      them with Harry's desires, using them to form the basis of a
      meticulously calculated script that the restored body it had made
      earlier would act out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It recalled this restored body, and...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(If anyone had been down in the deep, deep room that housed the
      Mirror, they would have heard a slight, shrill whistle as the
      Mirror burned through its power and replenished it at the same
      rate. It sounded uncannily like a shrieking voice.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Friendly used every one of the worst swear words in the
      eighty-two languages it knew. It had forgotten! Of course it had
      forgotten, it was designed to forget. Not taking people's clothes
      and personal effects into account was just part of its nature. The
      alternative would have been very unfriendly, not to mention
      counter-productive. And so, in its blissful ignorance, it had
      allowed the boy to enter his dreamland with the little trinket he
      had transfigured out of his closest friend, and now a <em class="calibre8">real,
      outside intelligence</em> - the actual Hermione Granger, revived
      from the dead by luck and pluck - was already there just as Harry
      expected her to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This would not be easy, but from its now-useless research it was
      obvious to Friendly that Hermione's wishes more or less overlapped
      with Harry's own. Looking at her dormant mind, she also had much
      more specialised knowledge than Harry to draw on - the Mirror
      busied itself with applying this knowledge to create the most
      accurate and comfortable environment for someone who had been
      raised from the dead - the standard fourth-degree Transfiguration
      setup, a comfy hospital bed, the understanding but strict Professor
      Flitwick to greet her back to life and to unreality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she saw Harry Potter, of course, she would have to take
      some manner of oath to bind the two to each other - to stand with
      him and stand by him, in all things, forever. Matters might get
      quite confusing otherwise, and the worst thing for either of the
      young wizards to be was confused.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, Michael and Petunia Verres-Evans:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The husband and wife were woken from their light doze at the
      same time, by a slight popping noise. Their eyes were crusted with
      tears, which was natural and proper- holding a private funeral for
      one's only son is something no one should have to go through</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Petunia occupied herself with one of her many flower boxes,
      watering them all to the exact recommended amount down to the
      millilitre, focusing on the measurement. Michael was attempting to
      read a fantasy novel, needing the comfortable escape of the cheap
      paperback more than ever before, but not having much success.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A car crash," he muttered under his breath, holding the fat
      little book open with one hand, heedless of the little chips of
      ageing paper that would occasionally fall on the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A random, unlucky car crash."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Petunia's breath held, and she walked to another room of the
      expansive house, sparing her husband no glances.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, The Universe:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The days turned to months turned to years. The imagined world of
      Harry and Hermione had grown in both scope and complexity, and the
      Mirror hadn't. These days, the ancient device needed more and more
      power to use. This wasn't much more than a curiosity, though - the
      Most Important People in History had used the deepest of magics
      from the very dawn of time to ensure that the Mirror would have
      power until the last star burned in the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a forest, almost but not quite on the other side of the
      world, two centaurs watched those stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">m telling you. You see that star, right
      there? Just to the right of Columba</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">s wing? I
      swear to you, it gets dimmer by the night.</em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You don</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">t know what
      you</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">re talking about. It
      doesn</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">t look any different!
      We</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">d all know if the Dove of Provenance was
      dimming, wouldn</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">t we?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I guess you</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">re right - this
      year</em><em class="calibre8">'</em><em class="calibre8">s harvest has gone wonderfully. Still,
      though...</em><em class="calibre8">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And they cantered around each other, neither wanting to say any
      more to the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">THE END</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Thanks for reading! Read my Author's Notes at
      /</em><em class="calibre8">r/HPMOR/comments/303bx0/still_in_the_mirror_the_long_epilogue_weve_all/cpoq48o</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
