<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 41 Nurmengard, GG-Alexander, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 41: Nurmengard, Pt IV, Gellert Grindelwald</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">1:24 pm, July 17th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the heavy iron gate was closed behind the British envoy, and
      food disappeared from the dining table, Gellert Grindelwald
      pondered on the message the younger blond delivered to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">According to Lucius, the biggest threat for Great Britain ever
      since Grindelwald himself, one Tom Riddle, was probably in
      Nurmengard, seeking Lord Grindelwald's biggest secret.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, Grindelwald wasn't too surprised about this news - the
      Americans, the Russians, and a large number of self-motivated dark
      wizards had been trying to find out about his real secret for the
      past fifty years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And they have tried, oh, they have tried. Brain, money,
      influence, promises about freedom, threats, potion, spells,
      rituals, torture, abduction... You name it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was a little bit surprise for Grindelwald was what took so
      long for this Tom Riddle to personally try his hands in
      Nurmengard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The new prison guard, Alexander Dimitrov, probably is Tom
      Riddle. The senses of darkness and danger smell right. I wonder if
      this new boy would try something new.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">As for the Brits sending me this message… Do they want me
      to kill off Tom Riddle as a ticket to the Mirror and the
      Stone?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald briefly closed his eyes, and realized one thing:
      <em class="calibre8">either they have no way to contact Albus, or they are not
      obeying Albus' orders.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Albus believed in the "destiny-enemy" crap. Albus wouldn't
      let a dark lord kill another. They are running this show all by
      themselves.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anger roared its way through Grindelwald's entire body; he
      wanted to tear the smug younger blond and every single Brit into
      pieces. However, Lord Grindelwald controlled himself soon
      enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">If Albus is really there to control everything, with his
      level of moral high grounds, he would never let me lay my hands on
      the Mirror and the Stone. Albus' absence is actually to my
      advantage.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Yes, I shall study the Mirror and the Stone first, and then
      grant every single Brit a slow and painful death, starting with
      Lucius Malfoy, his precious wife, and his son.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald summoned his communication coin, and started the
      long list of names that he needed to contact, starting with a
      signal to Lord Isaac Yodov - who was formerly Comrade Isaac Yodov:
      "I think I know the real reason that you lot haven't and shouldn't
      act the way you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Damn Brits, you shall get it your way for a while, but Lord
      Grindelwald shall get back at you.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">2:52 pm, July 17th, 1993 (Central Time)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhere near the border line between the United States and
      Canada, a brown-haired man gave a jet black altar a last check, and
      then let it sink into the vast and almost endless wheatfield.
      Wearing a bored and disinterested expression the whole time, the
      man acted as if there was nothing surprising or taxing about
      erecting and burying such a magical wonder in a few hours in a
      Muggle farm in North Dakota.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
