<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 48 Space Travel V, Power, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 48: Space Travel Pt V, Power</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">11:04 pm, July 22nd, 1993 (Almaty time)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Half an hour ago, Severus had already duplicated several
      spacesuits, and one charred and dented Soyuz space capsule that was
      said to have brought some Soviet cosmonaut back alive. Severus had
      also temporarily stabilized the duplicates with a duplicated Stone.
      However, when Severus briefly examined those strange-looking
      objects, he had no idea of what all the tubes connected to the
      spacesuits were supposed to do, nor what each part of that space
      capsule were used for. Severus also guessed none of the electronics
      in the duplicated items could be trusted. Therefore, he also needed
      blueprints, instruction manuals, or something of the sorts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Severus was seeking some Muggle in night shift who he could
      Legilimens near the launching pad, instinct told him of approaching
      danger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">White-blue shield of Protego Vitamaxima sprang out of Severus'
      wand without thinking, just in time to block a red bolt of light
      dashing towards him. Severus felt like someone had dropped some
      one-ton heavy weight onto his shield, and he was barely able to
      diverge that weight to somewhere else. In the meanwhile, Severus
      tried to activate the Portkey (his left sock) to his hotel room in
      Kiev. Unfortunately, the Portkey couldn't be activated, which meant
      that the enemy had banned Portkey, probably alongside with other
      magical travelling methods.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was so familiar with this sort of situation, that it
      didn't require any thought process for him to throw a wordless
      Echolocus toward the general direction of where the red bolt had
      come from. Severus hoped this spell of his own invention, that
      utilized echo to locate the presence of disillusioned objects,
      could help him determine the position of the attacker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus saw the green light spiraling toward his way almost at
      the same time as he heard "Lagann Maxima" spoken by another wizard.
      The powerful Breaking Drill Hex designed to break Protego Maxima
      failed in its attempt to crack Severus' powerful Protego
      Vitamaxima, yet the blow was pretty hard. Severus suspected, if he
      wasn't using a shield way more powerful than regular shields, he
      would have lost the battle already, for his opponent obviously
      wielded more raw magical power than he did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' Echolocus only returned a blurred image of someone in
      Muggle clothing wearing a pair of weird goggles when another flash
      of white light dashed toward Severus. The black-haired wizard
      dogged this time, and sent out a "Sectumsempra" toward his enemy.
      Severus didn't actually expect the curse that he invented to work,
      it was merely a cover for an inconspicuous small pebble that he was
      wordlessly sending toward his enemy's shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ex-Head of House Slytherin was no advocate for fair play and
      wizarding dueling rules, so the pebble - or as the Boy-Who-Lived
      had called Severus' invention, a magical grenade - contained ten
      different hexes, several potions, and a number of interesting
      Muggle chemicals. When Severus made this grenade, he had figured,
      if his enemy was not among the top wizards, they were probably
      unable to handle ten hexes at once; if he or she was a top wizard
      besides Voldemort, the spells and potions contained in the pebble
      might not penetrate the shield, but the strong acid and anesthetic
      gas might or might not create some problems for the enemy; however,
      if the enemy <em class="calibre8">was</em> Voldemort, one of the spells contained in
      the button was actually applied by the Boy-Who-Lived, though
      Voldemort might have some means to block it anyway. As a matter of
      fact, the idea of combining multiple charms onto the same magical
      object wasn't anything new - people working for the Gringotts
      Travel Office applied a couple dozen Portkey Charms onto Portkeys
      everyday so that the Portkeys could carry someone from London to
      New York, it just took incredible skills and precision to
      immobilize attacking charms, let alone different attacking charms.
      Severus took quite some pride on being able to stabilize the
      Boy-Who-Lived's Turning Stunner, and to add a dozen charms of his
      own. Unfortunately, neither the Boy-Who-Lived nor the
      Girl-Who-Revived could appreciate the level of difficulty in
      Severus' achievement; as for people could fully understand how
      great this was, he didn't want to tell Mad-Eye - just in case he
      needed to surprise the Auror, and the old lunatic would definitely
      force Severus to make multiple ones for him; currently, Severus had
      to temporarily content himself with Lucius' well-practised
      admirations and praises.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Severus could see whether his magical grenade had worked,
      he found that his opponent was no proponent for fair play, either -
      a heavy Muggle truck was flying fast toward Severus, apparently
      summoned here by a wordless Accio charm. When Severus found out, it
      was already too late to dodge in his human form, and he didn't
      think his shield could handle the blow of the truck. Severus had to
      change into his animagus form, and flew upward as fast as he could.
      The large bat was barely able to escape from the main trajectory of
      the truck, but some metal pipes flying out of the rear of the truck
      still smashed into Severus' left leg. Severus thought he had heard
      the sound of his bones being crushed, and his entire left side
      became numb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before roaring siren deafened the echolocation system of the
      large bat, echoes already told Severus that his enemy had been
      knocked down by the device Severus sent. The large bat dropped to
      the smashed truck, turned into his human form, and threw several
      stunning and binding hexes toward the dropped figure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus crawled toward his enemy, for he knew he'd better grab
      that guy and Apparate to somewhere before the Muggle guards got
      here. Then, Severus cursed his own stupidity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stella, take me ... to the enemy, then bring, b-both of us to
      the hotel room in Kiev." Severus breathed to his bird of fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two fires later, Severus was lying on the carpet of the hotel
      room, with his pet phoenix Stella perching by his side, cooing
      comforting sounds, and crying to his completely deformed left
      leg.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that Severus had the chance to observe his
      unconscious enemy. That man looked sixty-something. He had grey
      hair and beard, a lined face, a pronounced beer belly, and he smelt
      like a mixture of Vodka and puke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">My enemy is drunk?! How powerful is he when he is not
      drunk?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before examining his own injury, Severus threw several other
      binding hexes to the man lying besides him. Severus felt that he
      was extremely lucky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Severus tried to sit up to see the extent of his injury,
      he suddenly felt another approaching danger. The lost of blood and
      magical exhaustion from his previous duel had drained Severus so
      much that his Protego Vitamaxima was only half raised when it was
      smashed by a red light bolt. Some dizzy moments later, the reason
      for his "luck" presented himself in front of Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Well done, Sseveruss.</em>" His black-haired ancestor
      hissed. "<em class="calibre8">This guy iss indeed a good training tool for
      you.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, Salazar, thank you. And, you know, you could have
      disabled the Muggle siren, or maybe you could apply disillusion and
      sound-cancelling charms around your chosen dueling ground.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus hissed "<em class="calibre8">Thank you</em>" as he sighed inwardly.
      Severus figured that he need to heal himself fast, and turn back a
      few hours to deal with the scene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar wasn't shy about what he did for his descendant, as he
      absent-mindedly continued: "In this fading age of magic, it isn't
      that easy to find someone who is stronger than you, but not too
      strong for you to handle. The power level of this guard for
      Baikonur Cosmodrome is just right, but he was too drunk when I
      found him, so I had to wake him up a bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err, thank you again?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did this guy gain such power if he is always so drunk?"
      Salazar commented absentmindedly in English, while his heart was
      apparently somewhere else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus drank down a bottle of blood-replenishing potion,
      pondering on what was actually bothering Salazar, and answered at
      the same time: "A lot of Russians become quite alcoholic - or more
      alcoholic - after the collapse of the Soviet Union. This might be
      one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Just as what Tobias Snape did after the mill that he had
      worked for ten years filed bankruptcy, and there was no need for an
      engineer specialized the textile industry anywhere in UK.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm." Salazar scrutinized the drunken wizard besides Severus
      for a while, and suddenly asked, "<em class="calibre8">Did the Muggless really build
      the huge sspace exploring ground all by themselves? Mosstly without
      magic?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus then realized what was probably bothering Salazar for
      the past two days: <em class="calibre8">Salazar was so shocked by Baikonur
      Cosmodrome that he was desperately searching for signs of magical
      construction for the past two days. Plus, due to his shock, Salazar
      might have simply forgotten about the disillusion and
      sound-cancelling charms for the dueling ground.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus felt quite some sympathy for the medieval blood-purist,
      and hissed: "<em class="calibre8">Yess, the Muggless did thiss
      themsselvess.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar was silent for a long time, and only the sound of
      Severus' healing spells and Stella's cooing could be heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a while, Salazar finally began his routine procedure after
      subduing his enemies, such as taking liberties with their
      pouches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is this?" Salazar pointed a pair of green goggles, "He
      found you when he was wearing something like this, didn't he?
      Although his original pair is apparently lost somewhere, let's test
      if he can still see you with this when you have Circaduplucem
      raised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus decided against annoying his mentor in distraught with
      minor facts such as his broken left leg, concentrated his energy,
      and casted: "Circaduplucem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh!" Salazar exclaimed as he held the goggles near his eyes. "I
      can see a blurred figure from this. Maybe this is something like
      your, ah, your Echolocation Charm. Very interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus cancelled the powerful disillusion spell that was
      draining his energy, and gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Yeah, we need to invent something new to guard against
      this. By the way, if this guy knew about echolocation, why didn't
      he guard against it? He was too drunk or something? Or does this
      work differently?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar duplicated the goggles, and continued his search.
      Holding some paperwork, Salazar commented: "Ah, this guy's name is
      Oleg Konstantinovich Baikov. Didn't the Smirnov guy mention
      something about a Baikov who was considered to have the potentials
      to become a Comrade, if his mentor Shakhov hadn't died? If this is
      that Baikov, today's wizards really have a low bar for top
      wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Yess, that iss the name.</em>" Severus hissed, a sense of
      pride rising in his heart: <em class="calibre8">Merlin, I have just defeated someone
      who has been considered a possible future Comrade eleven years ago,
      which means…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Thank you.</em>" Severus hissed to his ancestor and mentor
      with all his sincerity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar waved his hand, a hint of loss on his face, "Just let me
      continue my search."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar didn't show any enjoyment towards Severus' compliments
      and gratitudes as he usually did, and Severus could understand why:
      <em class="calibre8">Just as I am climbing the power ladders to become a lord like
      Albus, or even a lord like Salazar, Salazar is also climbing the
      ladders to become someone like Merlin. In the past two days, maybe
      he has found another power ladder, which is potentially more
      powerful and dangerous than the magic wielded by Merlin himself,
      which is Muggle technology.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus looked at the most powerful wizard in the world, and
      felt a huge wave of loss washed through him as well: <em class="calibre8">The idol
      for all Slytherins for the past one thousand years may be able to
      build something like Hogwarts by himself, the most legendary wizard
      in history sacrificed his Life and Time to raise the Most Ancient
      Hall, yet none of them could construct Baikonur Cosmodrome by
      themselves.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a while, Severus finally commented in English: "Maybe we
      can figure out how to make the Stone, or the Mirror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar bitterly smiled.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
