<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 49 Space Travel 6 Prisoner's Dil, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 49: Space Travel Pt VI, Prisoner's Dilemma</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">9:05 pm, July 22nd, 1993 (London time)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his headquarter office, Harry pointed to the map of the Moon,
      and said to Hermione: "Hermione, let's pick a place for the
      landing. My current idea is that we should pick a place at the back
      of the Moon - in case our disillusion charms go wrong, we don't
      want some Muggle scientists with high power telescopes on the Moon
      all the time to easily see it. We don't want Muggles satellites to
      easily see the capsule, either - can we figure out the trajectories
      of all the satellites orbiting the Moon? And, we may also pick a
      relatively flat surface, so the capsule wouldn't accidentally fall
      off a cliff or something. Moreover, it needs to be far away from
      any of the previous landing sites of Muggle lunar missions -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's words stopped as a bright light ball appeared in front
      of him. In the ex-Head of Slytherin's smooth voice, the light ball
      hissed: "<em class="calibre8">I have got sseveral ssuitss and a capssule. Meet you
      somewhere?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hissed back: "<em class="calibre8">My officce. One time passscode:
      691146.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as Harry finished with his spells on the fireplace, the
      green flames went up, and Severus limped out of the fireplace with
      his phoenix on his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Noticing that Severus was hurt, alarm shot up in Harry's heart.
      He began to regret that he hadn't called Mad-Eye here, in case that
      the black-haired wizard had lost in a duel, and was now being
      mind-controlled by someone. Harry put care into his voice, and
      asked: "Professor Snape, are you alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione also left the sofa, and asked: "Professor Snape, do we
      need to call Madam Pomfrey or someone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus gave Harry and Hermione a courtesy nod, and said: "It's
      just physical injury, and I have already dealt with it. I will be
      alright in two days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus was applying privacy and security charms around them,
      Harry noticed that Severus' knuckles became white when he casted
      some of the more strenuous charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-This is not a good sign. The enemy Severus encountered must
      be quite strong. I do need Mad-Eye to check on him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hesitated, and then said: "Professor Snape, Mr. Moody and
      Draco are on a mission together, should I call them back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus reacted exactly the same way as Harry had expected -
      putting his godson together with Mad-Eye probably wouldn't lead to
      any positive imaginary scenes in Severus' head. The black-haired
      man paused, and replied: "Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Severus was done with the series of charms, he sat down in
      the sofa, and Stella perched besides Severus. There was nothing on
      Severus' face, but his strained shoulder and the slight tilt
      towards his right side showed that the man was still in pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry began to explain: "This morning, Draco had an idea that
      since we didn't know how precise phoenix travel is for super-long
      distance travelling, we shouldn't use Hogwarts as the landing
      ground - in case the space capsule appeared in the air or
      something. Draco proposed to use one of the places belonged to the
      Malfoys as landing ground. I have asked Mr. Moody to go with Draco
      to investigate the list of places Draco provided."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' black eyes flickered, and the black-haired man
      commented: "A very reasonable thought indeed. Too many eyes on
      Hogwarts now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somehow, Harry sensed that Severus had known that he wasn't
      trusted: <em class="calibre8">What did I do wrong?Where did I leak my true feelings?
      I should really get better with this kind of things. Well, I can
      probably indicate Severus that I am trying to build our trust.
      However, why do I have the sense that in recent days, Severus may
      not even care whether I trust him or not? The Malfoys, yeah, I know
      they are eager to please me, to show me how useful they are; but
      Severus, may be he just want to get things done. What happened
      recently that caused this change in attitude?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at the phoenix besides Severus, and knew the
      presence of Stella proved that Severus was a good man. However, in
      some dark corners of Harry's mind, a sound began to say: <em class="calibre8">You
      know, maybe the cynics are right in their disregard for phoenixes -
      maybe they are just a show of bravery, and maybe they have some
      preferences for space missions, that's all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry told that part of himself to shut up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, the green flames lit up again. Mad-Eye and Draco stepped
      out from the fireplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye and Severus began their usual check on each other
      without Harry's command. After they were finished and both of the
      wizards were clear, Mad-Eye pointed to Severus' left leg and asked:
      "What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus raised one of his eyebrows, and uttered a name: "Oleg
      Konstantinovich Baikov."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Mad-Eye almost jumped, and began to shower another round
      of spells towards Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Err, who is this?</em> Harry eyed Hermione inquiringly, and
      it seemed that Hermione didn't know, either. Therefore, that's
      probably not a famous magical scholar. And according to Mad-Eye's
      reaction, that Baikov guy seemed like a powerful dark wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus raised his Protego Vitamaxima, and proudly announced: "I
      defeated him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye's reaction was to throw the pebble that Harry gave him
      toward Severus, and the black-haired man quickly deflected the
      pebble toward the window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before the window was shattered by the combination of ten
      simultaneous spells, corrosive potions, and strong acid, Severus
      jumped out of the couch, enlarged his shield to protect everyone
      from the blast, and yelled: "Mad-Eye, are you mad? I am not
      You-Know-Who! I am just three steps from Potter and Granger. Ask
      what they feel!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to confirm Severus on this: "Mr. Moody, I don't feel
      the sense of DOOM."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Severus was currently protecting him, Harry could tell
      that the black-haired man wasn't too happy about the fact that his
      own creation was used against him, nor the apparent fact that Harry
      had handed Mad-Eye at least one of the ten magical grenades that
      Severus gave Harry - Harry had let Mad-Eye check the grenades
      without telling Severus, but now it seemed that Harry should have
      played the honest card and consulted Severus first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, I guess now it doesn't take an ex-Head of Slytherin
      to figure out that I don't trust him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Hopefully, Severus could take some pride in the fact that
      Mad-Eye considered the magical grenade the most effective weapon
      against You-Know-Who.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-How should I appease Severus with this? Or worse, does him
      still need it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye pointed his wand toward Severus: "Lad, you gained too
      much power, too quickly. You'd better have a very good explanation
      for this. Potter, Granger, what are you thinking? Move away from
      him! There are other dark wizards besides Voldie!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chose not to move a single step, for if the black-haired
      wizard in front of them wanted to hurt him or Hermione, he already
      had the chance; even if the possible hand behind Severus had some
      evil plots, doing it right in front of Mad-Eye probably wasn't a
      good idea. Therefore, Harry stayed asked: "Who is this Baikov? Why
      is defeating him such a big deal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone who is considered to be able to join the ranks of the
      Comrades." Mad-Eye spat, both eyes firmly on Severus, "Stronger
      than either me or the Snape lad I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't see Severus' expression, but he imagined that the
      black-haired man had rolled his eyes as he answered sarcastically,
      "You need to update your information, Mad-Eye. That was eleven
      years ago, before his mentor Shakhov died. After Baikov failed in
      some power scrambles in Moscow, he was demoted to Kazakhstan, and
      developed a preference for Vodka ever since. And after the collapse
      of the Soviet Union, his problems grew worse. So yes, the Baikov I
      defeated was a wasted drunk. He broke my leg, but I stunned him
      with the pebble that I invented - and by the way, the device which
      you just shamelessly used on me." Severus turned to Harry with a
      blank face, "<em class="calibre8">I sspoke truth.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, this is such a great example of my failed leadership!
      And Severus has defeated a drunken Comrade-to-be, which means that
      Severus is more powerful and/or resourceful than Mad-Eye thought.
      Maybe Severus has seen the potential of he himself becoming an all
      powerful lord, so he is no longer as eager to please me as when he
      just came back.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Hmm, the the level of fine control of magic Severus
      exhibited in combining all the charms, potions and chemicals into a
      small pebble might be quite remarkable. I have thought since
      Hermione could learn to overlay seven Portkey Charms to make a
      Portkey from Moscow to London without too much practise, and
      wizards working for the Goblins make Portkeys from New Zealand to
      the Great Britain all the time, overlaying charms wasn't that
      difficult. Yeah, Mad-Eye didn't use a magical grenade that he
      himself made, that meant he couldn't make one himself. Otherwise,
      Mad-Eye would never use something that Severus made against
      Severus. Oh, and Mad-Eye didn't tell me that he couldn't make good
      magical grenades after I showed them to him, which meant that he
      was either overestimating his own abilities, or he was refusing to
      admit defeat.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-How delightful!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed inwardly, and made a note to himself that needed to
      talk to Severus and Mad-Eye separately afterwards. He confirmed to
      everyone that Severus had spoken truth, and asked both Severus and
      Mad-Eye to sit down and be civil to each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco carefully sat by Severus, and asked in a low voice: "How
      are you, Godfather?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' alert black eyes never left Mad-Eye, but his voice took
      on a hint of warmth as he answered: "Don't worry, it's just
      physical injury, caused by a stray iron pipe from the back of a
      truck Baikov tried to throw at me. Easy to heal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry asked: "How was your mission, Professor Snape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus took out a green pouch from his black pouch, and then
      from the green pouch, he retrieved three sets of spacesuits, and a
      charred and dented space capsule that was approximately the size of
      an adult acromantula.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry still had some difficulty in accepting the multiple
      folding of space - not to mention how the large space capsule was
      fitted into the small opening of the pouch, yet other wizards
      seemed to have taken all this for granted. Harry knew this wasn't
      the best time to inquire about pouch magic, so he put on a happy
      face, and exclaimed: "Professor Snape, thank you! We can begin to
      work on them very soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry guessed that he didn't quite make the exclamation in the
      right tone to appease Severus, but the black-haired perfect
      Occlumens showed nothing on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Damn! I have only been leading people who are eager to
      serve me, who would ignore my blunders. Severus ... is a new
      challenge. What the heck happened between the guilty man in front
      of me a month ago, and this proud Lord-wannabe, or even Lord-to-be?
      The most significant change that I know is that he has a godson
      now. Does having Draco in his life give him a purpose or something?
      But it doesn't feel quite right. Unfortunately, Draco wouldn't be
      of much help in figuring this out. As for Mad-Eye, nah, he would
      only give answers such as Severus has been serving Grindelwald
      and/or Voldemort and/or some other dark wizards recently.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded, and said: "Mr. Potter, and Miss Granger, maybe
      you two have some advantages in figuring out what everything on
      them does, so that we can know what to do to construct a magical
      equivalent. I encountered Baikov before I could get blueprints or
      manuals for these items. I suppose, I can go back to Kazakhstan
      after my leg is healed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had no other choice than to appear to be a caring leader:
      "Professor Snape, please take enough time to rest, and maybe have
      Madam Pomphrey to check on you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded again as he said: "Mr. Potter, I have a
      suggestion on our animal test. I think we should put a snake and a
      note with Interdicted magic written in Parseltongue on it, just to
      see if going to the Moon is enough to bypass the Interdict of
      Merlin. I can use my healing time to select a snake, and teach it
      how to read."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err, what?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Parseltongue has a written form?" Harry asked in surprise. "Can
      you lie when you write things down in Parseltongue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and no, for your questions." Severus seemed to be a little
      amused by Harry's ignorance, "Generally speaking, Parseltongue
      resembles Old English. For example, the spelling of words isn't
      really fixed, and for the most part, you just need to spell the
      words out from the letter-to-sound correspondence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can someone who can't speak Parseltongue learn to read and
      write in it?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently, this had never occurred to Severus, for the man
      hesitated, and answered: "I don't know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">This is HUGE! The pronunciation of Parseltongue is way too
      hard for a normal person to grasp, but learning some snake-ish
      letters may not be that difficult. If there is some method to force
      everyone to speak truth, we may even figure out a way to partially
      solve the prisoner's dilemma!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Harry got all excited about the idea, in a small corner
      of his mind, Hufflepuff spoke: <em class="calibre8">Have you forgotten something?
      Severus has just proposed to send a sapient being who is made to
      follow orders given by Parselmouths to space, not to mention that
      sapient being is clever enough to learn to read.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin sneered: <em class="calibre8">Or what? Sending Severus up to the Moon
      first? He is clearly sapient, clever enough to read and write, and
      creative enough to invent magical devices, charms and
      potions.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided to consult Hermione in private about the moral
      dilemma, but he could decide on another matter now: "Professor
      Snape, could you teach everyone here how to read and write in
      Parseltongue? Err, maybe you and Mr. Moody can learn to trust each
      other after you can both write in Parseltongue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus seemed to want to roll his eyes or sneer, but he stopped
      himself, and said: "Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">OK, Step One is done.</em> Harry took in a breath, and
      turned to Mad-Eye: "Mr. Moody, how did the investigation of the
      Malfoy farms go?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
