<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 32 Descendants IV, Severus, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 32: Descendants Pt IV, Severus Snape</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">All my thanks to Jared, Joe, and Kuilin, who beta-ed this
      chapter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">10:10 am, June 28th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After proper use of memory charms and five turns of his
      Time-Turner, Lucius was put back into the sewer, leaving Salazar
      all to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From extensive exploration of Giuliani's mind, Salazar saw that
      Giuliani had talked to portraits on various occasions, and the
      portraits seemed to respond in a reasonable way. The portraits in
      Salazar's time could only enunciate very simple sentences, or carry
      out simple tasks such as opening doors only to those that knew
      certain passwords. It seemed that later wizards had developed
      better portrait techniques. Since Nagini mentioned nothing of it,
      it must be another non-Interdicted yet interesting development.
      With any luck, Salazar could grab a portrait that could speak both
      Latin and the current vernacular, and use it as a translator.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar disillusioned himself again, and walked into the
      corridors. The first portrait he saw was a drawing of two witches
      in extravagant garments, the collars of which were wider than their
      shoulders. The witches were whispering to each other in a language
      resembling French, and constantly looking around in alert.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">So the portraits are indeed much better these
      days.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar pointed his wand to the frame of the portrait, and felt
      the delicate magic and the link of it with Hogwarts. It seemed that
      all portraits were made to obey orders from the current headmaster
      or headmistress of Hogwarts, which made things very convenient for
      Salazar. With a few twists similar to what Salazar had already done
      to the house-elves before he entered the Mirror, all the portraits
      in Hogwarts would obey Salazar first, and then the current
      headmaster and headmistress only if Salazar had not ordered them
      otherwise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar had been tempted to get a portrait of a passed
      headmaster or headmistress for their superior knowledge, but that
      was too obvious, so he settled for a portrait hanging in a deserted
      corner. The eccentric wizard depicted in the portrait was Roderick
      Plumpton, who had been a seeker in the ridiculous game nowadays
      called "Quidditch", a painter later in life, and died from old age
      four years ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Plumpton explained, the use of someone's willingly donated
      blood and memory before they died, alongside with some special
      techniques, could make portraits behave like the persons depicted
      in them. The original aim of wizarding painters was to use the
      advanced portraits to bypass the Interdict of Merlin, but that was
      unsuccessful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With the help from Plumpton, Salazar knew that the younger Tom
      Riddle who called himself "Harry Potter" wanted to use the Mirror
      to lock the current out-and-running adult Tom Riddle and all his
      horcruxes in Time. "Harry Potter" had told Severus and the "Auror"
      named Moody, that the ritual would require himself to be
      sacrificed, and be locked in Time as well. "Harry Potter" asked
      Severus and Moody's help in setting up this magic and then being
      obliviated, to which both men agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What Salazar heard was quite confusing: <em class="calibre8">what is this younger
      Riddle actually planning to do? What he has planned can indeed lock
      all Riddles up - well, if I haven't cleaned the dirt from Rowena's
      Diadem, I can lock all Tom Riddles in Time now. But why would he do
      it? Does he really consider himself a hero like Godric? Or maybe
      this Plumpton is such an idiot that he completely mistranslated
      things.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, in private, "Harry Potter" told the girl emanating the
      smell of unicorn that since he was indeed another Tom Riddle, once
      the magic of the Mirror was triggered, he would also be locked in
      Time. This girl named "Hermione Granger" and little Draco should
      lead human beings to advance magic and something called "science"
      for the next several hundred years, conquer other galaxies,
      evacuate something called the "Milky Way Galaxy", then release all
      Tom Riddles from the Mirror. At that time, she should save this
      "Harry Potter" and the obliviated Tom Riddle in the form of a ring,
      then -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The younger Tom Riddle's words were cut off at this point, maybe
      because he literally couldn't say what would happen in the next
      step. However, Salazar could guess: <em class="calibre8">the younger Tom Riddle is
      implying that the Granger girl should destroy the "Milky Way
      Galaxy", and in this way, the Prophecy that this Tom Riddle would
      destroy the world would be fulfilled in the best possible
      way.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar ignored the various sounds made by the Granger girl, and
      mulled over the younger Tom Riddle's statement for quite some time.
      When he finally reached a passable answer for the motive of this
      particular Tom Riddle, it was just as crazy as the previous
      possibilities Salazar had thought of: <em class="calibre8">this Riddle has found the
      many horcruxes and the many versions of "Tom Riddle" annoying, or
      he thought his many horcruxes might lead to world destruction.
      However, some of the horcruxes were so well-hidden that even he
      himself can't find them. The only way that he could think of to get
      rid of all other Tom Riddles was to blast the whole earth plus
      nearby stars.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say, Salazar had quite a headache absorbing this new
      information. However, if there was a possibility to lock all the
      Riddles in Time for a while, Lord Slytherin would surely help, even
      if that meant delaying the formulation of his plot to use the Stone
      for a few days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the Headmistress' Office, the younger Tom Riddle showed
      Severus the Stutterer and Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody some notes from
      the Muggle-loving fool Albus Dumbledore, and some older notes from
      his Line of Merlin Unbroken heritage, then asked them if they could
      figure out the details of how to lock someone in Time, and how to
      control the process remotely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Naturally, Lord Slytherin took this chance to duplicate all the
      notes that he could lay his hands on, examined the notes in an
      empty classroom nearby, and kept a keen ear on the Headmistress'
      office. In case they couldn't work out the details after a while,
      Salazar wouldn't mind secretly offering them some hints.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luckily for Salazar, most notes passed down from the holders of
      Line of Merlin Unbroken before Karen Dutton, the stupid witch who
      chose Dumbledore as her successor, were written in Greek, Latin,
      and occasional ancient Runes and Hebrew, all of which Salazar could
      understand pretty well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In all the notes left by Merlin himself, Salazar could only find
      one piece of half-torn paper that contained something related to
      the mass-sacrificial ritual that Godric and Lucius warned him
      about. The letters on it were almost illegible scratches, and
      Salazar could only decipher "atomos", "lux", "stella", and "mors",
      the last of which was written quite a number of times, as if the
      writer was in great agony and anxiety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Atom, light, stars, and death. What do they mean? Death
      would be the result, atom would be the things sacrificed, and
      Lucius mentioned something about "why the stars shine"... But why?
      How?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although common sense told Salazar that since the ritual-weapon
      had not destroyed the world during the past fifty years, it was
      unlikely to destroy the world in the next few days, Salazar's mind
      was still preoccupied by it, and even the rest of Merlin's notes
      that contained hints of a number of powerful spells and rituals had
      lost their attraction to Salazar at this moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Lucius told me that Severus knew more about the weapon, and
      Severus might also have means to lay his hands on the weapon.
      Therefore, I need to liberate Severus from his current task on
      figuring out how to use the Mirror soon.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">From Plumpton's translation, it seemed that Moody and Severus
      spent almost a day, pondering on how to communicate one's wishes
      with the Mirror, before the younger Tom Riddle finally spoke
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ponite occlumency obice, suspicor." Plumpton translated the
      younger Tom Riddle's words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar sighed inwardly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">If Tom Riddle is going to give information as simple as
      "drop your occlumency barrier" at this rate, I may need to wait
      until the next year for anything to really happen.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar pointed his wand toward the general direction of the
      headmistress' office, and cast, "Siticulos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The simple Siticulos spell that Salazar learnt from
      Constantinople was quite harmless by itself, and it did nothing
      except making people in that general direction thirsty. However, if
      it was cast by several powerful wizards with all their strength, it
      would lead to the entire enemy army consume much more water than
      planned, and thus it was a very powerful spell while fighting in
      arid areas such as Egypt. In this case, the spell would only lead
      to the inconspicuous need for the loo within one or two few
      hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar pointed his wand to the wall of the empty classroom, and
      connected himself to the wards. He located the private toilet
      attached to the headmistress' office, which was only added long
      after the conjuration of Hogwarts, and made some small adjustment
      in sound transmission of the toilet. Salazar didn't quite
      understand the need for "privacy" instead of socialization while
      using the toilet or the bathroom, but since this new trend worked
      to his advantage at this time, he wasn't going to complain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, the old lord waited patiently while flipping through the
      notes left by the holders of Line of Merlin Unbroken, looking for
      anything related to "atomos", "lux", and "stella", while keeping an
      ear on the headmistress' office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Approximately one hour later, the younger Tom Riddle needed to
      use the toilet. Both Severus and Moody went into the toilet
      together with the "Boy-Who-Lived", and checked the toilet
      thoroughly. Unfortunately for them, the modifications Salazar did
      was indeed part of the castle, and the Eye of Vance had a limit for
      how many walls it could see pass through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar approved the companion of others while in potential
      danger in principle, -that was, if it was not in the way of his
      plot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Didn't Plumpton say current population need "privacy"? Do I
      need to make up a new plot?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luckily, Severus and Moody soon left the toilet, and left the
      younger Tom Riddle all to himself. A while later, the younger
      Riddle left the toilet, and Severus entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar carefully applied a white-blue shield of Protego
      Vitamaxima in the innermost circle, an invisible single-sided
      silencing charm in the second circle, another invisible
      single-sided smell concealing charm in the third circle, and a
      Circaduplucem to the outmost circle. Before entering the Mirror,
      Salazar used to apply one spell of his own creation that served
      both as protection and concealment before Apparation; now, with the
      invention of Protego Vitamaxima, he wouldn't trust any lesser
      protection spells, yet he didn't have time to create a new
      combinatorial spell. Although Salazar was reluctant to admit it,
      the fact was, applying all four separate spells in a row was a bit
      stretching for the Greatest of Hogwarts Four.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar checked the new combination of shield and concealment
      again, and apparated into the headmistress' large bathroom while
      the sound of toilet flushing began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Salazar's both delight and annoyment, the second he landed in
      the bathroom, the black-haired wizard who was reaching for the
      faucet suddenly had his wand in hand, and cursed toward the general
      direction of where Salazar landed: "Ava -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar's stunning hex smashed through the faint blue shield
      just started to spring out from some trinket attached to Severus'
      robes, and rendered the black-haired wizard completely
      immobile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Salazar grabbed Severus' wrist and prepared to apparate
      again, another version of a slightly confused looking Severus
      appeared from nowhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Go quickly,</em>" Salazar heard the slightly strange sound
      of himself hissing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Slytherin didn't need more cues, for he knew it was hard
      even for himself to produce a believable illusion for the holder of
      Eye of Vance for a prolonged period of time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Salazar apparated back to the empty classroom, he didn't
      take off the illusions immediately, for he knew he was sweating and
      slightly panting from the succession of protection and illusion
      spells, the two apparitions, and the powerful stunning hex. For
      some reason, Salazar didn't want his descendant to see it, even if
      he knew that Severus would be obliviated afterwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">For the sake of Atlantis, I could do this type of thing
      five times in a row and still had energy for a dance merely ten
      years ago, - oh, well, ten years ago for me anyway. And now, my
      bones and joints start to protest, and my heart is pounding so
      fast.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The aged Lord Slytherin wiped his forehead, composed his
      breathing, and sized Severus the Stutterer up and down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired wizard still had horrified looks frozen on his
      yellowish face; his black tunneling eyes that resembled Salazar's
      in his younger years were calculating, maybe because he knew that
      he would be returned to the very toilet, apparently unharmed; his
      shoulder-length hair was oily and unkempt, which suited Salazar's
      taste better than the overtly looked-after white blonde hair of the
      Malfoys; his black robes were as expensive looking as Lucius', yet
      dirt and dried moth marred the elegancy of the garments - from his
      previous search in the tunnels, probably; his fingernails were dry
      and cracking, and he still held his black wand firmly in his right
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar cancelled the concealments, and showed himself in front
      of Severus. He accioed Severus' wand and pouch without a word or
      any wand movements, for the appearance of omnipotence was important
      for the smooth continuation of the conversation to come.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Greetingss, Sseveruss, my desscendant. Nicce triess for
      calling for the dirty creaturess.</em>" Salazar hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The horrifying apprehension and confusion in Severus' eyes
      brought Salazar a smirk, then his smirk froze slightly: <em class="calibre8">Severus
      isn't thinking that I am Tom Riddle, and I am his true father, is
      he?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With the slight headache that associated with Tom Riddles, the
      aged lord continued, "<em class="calibre8">I am Ssalazar Sslytherin, the Greatesst
      of Hogwartss Four. I mean you no harm.</em> "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Confusion, disbelief, and relief flashed through Severus' eyes,
      then everything was replaced by the emptiness of occlumency.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar had considered trying legilimency on Severus, but
      decided against it, for the possible failure might infringe his
      appearance of omnipotence - <em class="calibre8">mental defense is just too simple
      as comparing to offense, and Tom Riddle wouldn't trust someone
      without a perfect occlumency barrier for any important secret
      task.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Since Severus might have figured out that Salazar was the hand
      behind Lucius' "invention" of Protego Vitamaxima among other things
      by this point, Salazar did not give Severus the chance to show off
      his cunning. "<em class="calibre8">And yess, I ssummoned the ssnakess to sschool,
      killed man-eating sspiderss, and had an interesting converssation
      with Luciuss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">But then, Lucius told Severus everything without
      considering the consequences. Was Lucius deceived of the level of
      friendship between them by Severus; or did Lucius do this on
      purpose, for he noticed something was wrong with him, and he wanted
      people to know, and wanted Severus to feel guilty about revealing
      it? Hmm. With descendants like this, one may never have a dull
      moment in life.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Did you descend from the Malfoy line, or the Gaunt
      line?</em>" Salazar asked casually, for making Severus too nervous
      or hostile would be bad for later conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Salazar waved his hand, Severus the Stutterer spoke
      slowly, "<em class="calibre8">Ak-cording to Luciuss, I am hiss v-fourth k-cousin,
      and fiv-fth cousin oncce l-removed,.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was some strangeness in the way that Severus answered his
      question, and with Severus' previous reaction when he heard that he
      was Salazar's descendant…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Is Severus a bastard or orphan who doesn't know his true
      parentage?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar silently hoped that Severus wasn't really Tom Riddle's
      son, for he could deal with the possibility that Severus was
      Lucius' illegitimate brother, but Salazar didn't want any family
      drama involving the very descendant that he wanted to lock in
      Time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar decided to skip the cunning small talks that might lead
      to more headache, asked the question that he cared about most.
      "<em class="calibre8">What do you know about the weapon that invokess the ritual
      which ssacrificess atomonss or masss, and caussess huge
      exxplosions?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar might have seen true confusion and the shock flashed
      passed Severus' eyes. However, these might just be Severus' covers,
      since although you couldn't tell lies in Parseltongue, there was no
      rule about your expressions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, the black-haired wizard spoke slowly, "<em class="calibre8">Not ssure j-you
      are … to know.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar frowned upon the answer. Salazar knew he should be
      careful with such rituals, but Lucius had said some of his
      knowledge came from a "paper" distributed by some wizards in one of
      the new continents, and it didn't sound that well-kept -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Luciuss told me about paper distributed by -</em> " Salazar
      changed to the vernacular he yet to learn, and mimicked Lucius'
      pronunciation, "Amirikan", then turned back to Parseltongue.
      "<em class="calibre8">It hass written much about the ssecretss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' face twitched slightly, his breath became a bit uneven.
      After a while, Severus slowly began, "<em class="calibre8">Do not get near d-thesse
      v-weaponss. P-Powerful wizardss may l-render -</em>" Severus
      searched for words, then said. "<em class="calibre8">A lot ov-f Muggle dew-vicess
      invented in the passt one hun-dred j-yearss or sso broken. Thiss
      type of v-weapon can be more dangel-rouss if broken. Sseven yearss
      ago, ssomev-where in Easstern Eul-Europe, more d-than one hun-dred
      thousand … people have to be ew-evacuated becausse ssomething like
      that b-broke.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar nodded slowly, and then realized why Severus was
      reluctant to reveal information about the ritual-weapon. "<em class="calibre8">I
      have no intention to usse or own such weaponss, only to take them
      away from unworthy wielderss, Muggle and wizardss alike. And before
      I can rid the world of ssuch danger, I have no intention to
      antagonize Muggle governmentss or groupss that wield the horrible
      ritual weaponss by any meanss, ssuch ass hurting
      Muggless.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus opened his mouth, then paused. He regarded Salazar
      carefully, and asked, "<em class="calibre8">Muggle-b-bornss?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Those dirty illiterate creatures irked Salazar greatly, and he
      always thought the mudbloods should never be allowed to learn
      magic. However, Severus did raise a valid point: <em class="calibre8">hurting
      mudbloods may lead to retaliations from Muggles. By the way, he
      called them "Muggleborns", like the good and great Lord Gryffindor
      did. Hmm -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I sshall not hurt mudbloodss or Muggless unlesss by not
      doing sso may hurt mysself or Hogwartss.</em>" Salazar promised.
      "<em class="calibre8">And I have no intention to lead to the desstruction of the
      world.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From Severus' silent mouth movements, Salazar guessed the
      black-haired wizard might have cursed Lucius. Then the black-haired
      stutterer said, "<em class="calibre8">The Girl-Who-l-Revived, hass uni-corn blood
      insside, bl-bringss good luck v-while alive. Do not v-want to
      imagine v-what would happen if she d-diess. Her pal-parentss are
      ssquibss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ah, when there is a prophecy that a version of you might
      bring an end to the world, keep a living luck maximizer around you.
      Tom Riddle is surely cunning, and he is capable of creating great
      disasters if things do not go his way - in case the mudblood girl
      named "Hermione Granger" dies, the retribution from the Universe
      might really destroy the world. And that's why Severus brought out
      the topic on mudbloods.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The grim prospect that Lord Slytherin the famous blood purist
      might be forced into protecting a mudblood girl irked the aged lord
      greatly, yet he knew better than to challenge the Universe. With an
      inward sigh and another note to punish all the Tom Riddles with
      creative methods, Salazar promised reluctantly, "<em class="calibre8">I shall not
      hurt the girl with unicorn blood, and shall protect her if it iss
      necesssary.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Noticing that Severus seemed a bit relaxed after hearing this,
      Salazar had a brief impulse to punish the stutterer for delivering
      the blackmail sent by Tom Riddle to the entire world, but he held
      himself better than that, for he knew that Severus did the right
      thing as to warn him of the things that might lead to great
      disaster, such as hurting the mudblood girl, or getting near to the
      ritual-weapons without understanding them first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Any other dangerss that I should be aware of?</em>" Salazar
      hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus frowned, then answered, "<em class="calibre8">The Sstone d-that makess
      transsv-figuration permanent. The Sstone can be used in
      dan-dangerous v-wayss . For v-what iss worsse, the Boy-Who-Lived
      ov-offered the sservice of the Sstone to every-one a j-year ago.
      Many pov-powerful wizardss, gl-groupss, and nationss dessire the
      Sstone all for … d-themsselvess. World v-warss might
      sstart.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar nodded to the information that he had already inferred
      from the various times that the Hogwarts wards were triggered by
      outside wizards, and the Giuliani guy that he had killed. "<em class="calibre8">I
      have a plan to deal with that.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar's plan was to awe the powerful lords in the world into
      submission, as Merlin did, and to proclaim Hogwarts and the Stone
      of Permanency as his. Although, due to the utter stupidity of the
      younger Tom Riddle, Salazar might not be able to deprive the use of
      the Stone from wizards all over the world, for that would
      definitely lead to a world war, and even the combined forces of the
      Hogwarts Four at the height of their powers might not be enough to
      defend Hogwarts from the combined forces from all the wizards in
      the world, not to mention some might have access to the
      ritual-weapon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, before Salazar could execute his plan, he needed to
      regain his youth first. And for that part, Salazar might need a
      living person's help, preferably a Parselmouth. Salazar only knew
      four possible Parselmouths, including Tom Riddle, Severus, Lucius,
      and Draco. Out of these four, Tom Riddle was his enemy, Lucius was
      held as a political prisoner, Draco was too young, therefore,
      Severus was the most convenient option. That was, before Salazar
      found other Parselmouths.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Who do you know are Parsselmouthss?</em>" Salazar
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar gave an impatient hiss. "<em class="calibre8">Any danger in thiss ass
      well?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Not s-sure if dan-dangerouss.</em>" Severus answered
      reluctantly. "<em class="calibre8">Can n-name ssome. A-Albuss, v-former
      sschool-masster, iss one, but he iss ... locked in Time.
      Bartimuss-</em>" Severus changed into vernacular to say "Crouch",
      then back to Parseltongue, "<em class="calibre8">Might be one, but he v-went
      cl-crazy when hiss only sson died.</em>" Then he paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Wait, the Muggle-loving fool is a descendant of mine as
      well? What a delight! Now that I have one descendant who possibly
      handed the world-ending ritual to Muggles, and one descendant who
      has a hobby of splitting himself up, fighting himself, and possibly
      ending the world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-By the way, Severus isn't providing any useful information
      by naming one person who was locked in Time and another who went
      crazy. What is he hiding?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Ah, the fact that the younger Tom Riddle is a Parselmouth,
      because Severus still thinks the "boy" is some great figure to be
      protected, and he is afraid that I might utilize the "boy" for
      something and causes great danger to the world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar hissed. "<em class="calibre8">I already knew the one that current wizards
      call 'the Boy-Who-Lived' and the Malfoyss are
      Parsselmouthss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus paused, his eyes might became a little more empty, and
      then he said, "<em class="calibre8">I j-just know one m-more P-Parsselmouth, the
      Dark Lord -</em>" In vernacular, Severus said the name, "Tom
      Riddle", then supplemented in Parseltongue, "<em class="calibre8">No idea v-where he
      iss. He iss very dan-dangerouss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar nodded to the disappointing news that there were only
      such a limited number of Parselmouths nowadays, and Severus seemed
      to be the only one available for the task of helping Salazar to
      regain his youth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, Severus isn't a bad choice, actually. His magical
      power is mediocre, but that level of magic is considered "powerful"
      per current standards. The "Auror" named Moody only has the same
      level of magic as Severus does, yet he was entrusted by the young
      Riddle to guard the Stone, and many enemies of Hogwarts have
      apparently failed to challenge Moody's wards. Moreover, Severus is
      discrete, cunning, and interesting. As a bonus, Severus knows quite
      something about the powerful ritual weapon, and maybe somewhat how
      the current Muggle society. Therefore, Severus is about as good as
      I can get as a helper. However, I need to know what leverage I can
      use on him, if he is to be trusted, and how to convince him to go
      along with my plan.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Severus is obviously a sane man who doesn't want the world
      to end, so maybe I can convince him that helping me would help the
      world. However, most people cannot be easily motivated by such
      grandeur pursuits if going down such paths may require them to do
      something as simple as changing their traveling methods from
      broomstick to flying carpets. Severus seems to be better than that,
      but I'd better not take the risk before I know him better. Money is
      a common tools to motivate people, but since Severus used the Stone
      for several hours during that interesting night, I guess he already
      has plenty of gold. Personal ambition, then. I hope the ex-Head of
      my House has the ambition to become a really powerful
      wizard.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What languagess can you sspeak?</em>" Salazar asked, for
      learning as many ancient language as you could was a standard
      requirement for anyone who was serious in power since the Interdict
      of Merlin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">English, F-French, Old English, Old Fl-French, Latin,
      Ancient Gl-Greek, Runess, Hebrew, P-Parsseltongue, ssome
      Hiel-Hieroglyph, ssome Old German, and I am learn-learning Sspanish
      and -</em> " Severus changed into vernacular, "Russian."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Twelve besides the current English and Parseltongue,
      acceptable. It seems that Severus has been determined to gain more
      power for quite some time, for you do not learn a dozen languages
      in a short time. He should at least add Aramaic, Arabic, Cuneiform,
      Persian, and Sanskrit to his list, though. On a second thought, he
      - and I - should also learn Chinese and the language called
      "Jaepeneese", for Tom Riddle has gained much knowledge over
      there.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Severus' intelligence and cunning are already tested, so he
      is an acceptable helper.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ancient lord hissed. "<em class="calibre8">If you agree to help me to regain
      youth ssecretly, I would help you to defeat my desscendent from the
      Gaunt line, the persson you call the Dark Lord.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Obviously, Salazar didn't bother to mention the fact that he
      would defeat the Tom Riddles whether Severus chose to cooperate or
      not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired man's face turned grey, then hissed as if he
      was facing his own death. "<em class="calibre8">I sshall not help you ssteal or
      l-rob the Sstone, for d-that may lead to v-world
      desstruction.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard suppressed his annoyance, and hissed: "<em class="calibre8">Have
      no plan to ssteal or rob the Sstone, jusst to usse it ass sso many
      otherss from the entire world have.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, of course, after I have awed all the powerful wizards
      in the world into submission, I plan to publicly claim the Stone as
      my own. But before that, I can be temporarily content at going back
      to my early thirties.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus eyed Salazar with great suspicion, and asked: "<em class="calibre8">I am
      a P-Parsselmouth, sso iss d-the Boy-v-Who-Lived. Kv-Quicker if you
      reveal yoursself in fl-front of him and assk. V-Why me?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Because the so-called "the Boy-Who-Lived" is Tom Riddle,
      you fool!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ass Luciuss and you have said, too much danger in and
      around him.</em>" Salazar carefully chose what he could say without
      revealing the boy's true identity, for as long as the younger Tom
      Riddle were to be confident that he was under a perfect cover of a
      young hero, he must act the part of hero in front of other's eyes,
      and made the world safer. "<em class="calibre8">No plan to tilt world balance toward
      danger in any way or form. Shall not explain in more detailss, for
      that might be dangerouss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though Severus didn't seem to be convinced by this answer, he
      chose to give up on this question, and asked another. "<em class="calibre8">How do
      you l-live for sso long? V-Why hass nobody heard of j-you for sso
      long?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Does Severus suspect me of using some stupid methods such
      as horcrux to achieve longevity? Yeah, and Godric and I started the
      rumor. Does he blame his own possible misfortune on me? Perhaps
      this one isn't as sharp as Lucius, because Lucius didn't ask - nah,
      Lucius was too afraid of his own neck back then, yet Severus is
      quite sure he will be returned to that bathroom in the future. And
      after all, nobody has ever mimicked Lord Slytherin's wise move in
      more than nine hundred years.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a hint of gloat, Salazar answered his descendant's
      question: "<em class="calibre8">The Mirror.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus the Stutterer opened his mouth, then looked as if he
      wanted to hit himself with a hammer. Slowly, and some cloud of
      renewed suspicion rose up in his black eyes. "<em class="calibre8">V-Would you help
      uss in our ka...current tassk v-with the Mirror?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, well, Severus probably has correctly deduced that I am
      inclined to help him locking up all Tom Riddles. For the sake of
      Atlantis, I can hardly decide which kind of showing-off is more
      annoying: the Malfoys' extravagance, or Severus' cleverness! Yet,
      Godric had often accused me of gloating…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar struggled between the roles of an annoyed lord and a
      doting grandfather, and silently admitted to himself that his
      judgement might have been compromised by the softness in his old
      age. With a note that he needed to regain his youth sooner, Salazar
      hissed: "<em class="calibre8">If you cooperate with me, I shall leave you hintss on
      that ssubject ass well.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' eyes flickered, and then promised: "<em class="calibre8">I v-will
      co-cooperate, but I le-retain right to sstop, in casse I ssee
      danger of v-world de-desstruction in d-doing sso. I v-will tell you
      the rea...reason if I can.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That sounded reasonable to Lord Slytherin. The old lord hissed:
      "<em class="calibre8">You can only hide information from me under the circumsstance
      that by telling me sso, the very act may endanger the world. If you
      accept, then deal.</em> "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus considered, and hissed. "<em class="calibre8">Deal.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: In canon, Dumbledore could speak more than a hundred
      languages, and Crouch, Sr. could speak more than two hundred. This
      certainly makes a lot of sense in a world with the Interdict of
      Merlin where one of the greatest sources of power is to read
      ancient text and to guess the secrets buried behind. However, if
      anyone who is serious to gain power has to learn that many
      languages, a great many powerful lords might be intellectually
      exhausted afterwards, and have no energy to think about something
      such as "magical Enlightenment". Think about Harry, if he were to
      be brought up by a distinguished magical scholar, then probably he
      has to learn Old English, Old French, Latin and Greek as a start,
      and Hebrew and Runes as a first-step supplement, with Hieroglyph
      and Arabic in the waiting, etc. By the end of the day, I wonder if
      Harry would ever have the time or mental capacity to read any
      scientific literature even when they are put in front of him.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
