<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 33 Classes, Part I, Food Safety, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 33: Classes Pt I, Food Safety</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">All my thanks to Kuilin, my dear beta.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">RIP, Alan Rickman. I hope someone has made a Version 3.0 Horcrux
      for you, so that we can still hear your unmistakable voices and
      watch your excellent performances after we figure out how to make a
      Stone.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Chapter 33.</p>

      <p class="calibre6">11:59 am, July 7th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Time is up, turn in your papers now." Severus knocked on the
      blackboard in the small classroom, and waved his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his head as his quiz drifted toward the ex-Potions
      master, looked around, finding both Draco and Hermione were looking
      nervously at Severus. While Severus started flipping through their
      quizes, and marking things down quickly, Harry had a surreal
      feeling about his life in general.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After several days of intensive saving-the-world activities and
      setting up the Mirror so that it would lock up all the Tom Riddles
      upon command or the lack of certain commands, the Boy-Who-Lived,
      the Girl-Who-Revived and, in Mad-Eye's words - the "Malfoy brat who
      should never be here", were back as students again. From Harry's
      own life experience, maybe the cartoonists weren't completely
      making things up when they depicted student superheroes who had to
      save the world on a regular basis and to worry about their homework
      at the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">At least I don't have to hide the fact that I am the
      superhero from everyone, and the important people around me
      understand that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry moved his eyes away from the ex-Potions master, and
      pondered again on the dilemma that he had been circling at the back
      of his mind since he was in the dark mode four days ago: <em class="calibre8">should
      I let Severus revive the real Quirrell? Quirrell might have some
      information on the whereabouts of Voldemort, not to mention some of
      his secret powers. The real danger of this matter is that if we
      choose to do so, we need to keep this thing in complete secrecy.
      Mad-Eye had offered one of his fake identities to me when he
      thought that I needed the identity myself, the identity was
      "somewhat plausible" by Mad-Eye's standards, and he had gone to
      double check it today. Yesterday, Severus - who no longer
      remembered it now - had said that he could construct a new revival
      altar in about two weeks, if he could use the Stone to duplicate
      some of the leftover magical materials at hand, and his altar in
      the United States is still usable. Therefore, maybe it is time that
      I talk to Hermione about this, and ask for her opinion. Well, for
      potential political implications, I need to talk to Draco as well,
      and maybe obliviate him later.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry had weighed out the benefits and shortcomings of a
      new altar in Britain at some location that Mad-Eye deemed "having
      some semblance of safety" versus the one in Nevada, Severus had
      finished grading their quizes and handing back them to the three
      students. Harry got a ninety-four out of one hundred, and some
      quick glances told Harry that Hermione got one hundred points while
      Draco got ninety-one. Harry looked at his paper again, and found
      that he misspelt the name of a commonly used food poison, and he
      had omitted a step in the making of the animagus meditation potion,
      which could render the drinker having a much harder time - or maybe
      never - in turning back to human form, and Severus had commented
      that Harry had "an excellent killer's instinct even in
      mistakes".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lunch time also turned out to be a quiz time, simply because
      one of that day's subjects had been various ways that your enemy
      might sabotage you by food and drinks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That morning, Minerva first had given a lecture on the theory of
      animagus transformation, which Harry had already learned by
      heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Mad-Eye had given a two-hour lecture about charms and
      transfigurations that could be used on the things that went into
      your stomach, which only covered "the bare minimum of what a stupid
      criminal would use". As it turned out, Harry's ideas about putting
      transfigured sulfuric acid into the enemy's teacup wasn't that
      unique - the story of the criminal who transfigured gold into wine
      was covered during the very first transfiguration lecture after
      all. While talking about transfiguration, Mad-Eye had sneered,
      "Every so often, there is some chap who thinks that he is the only
      who listened in the first transfiguration class, and comes up with
      some fancy stuff to transfigure, puff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, when house-elves brought them three large trays of
      food, the real quiz started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a hint of smirk, Severus said: "Label all the items that
      you think are unfit for consumption and why. For the items that you
      can't name a reason for refusal within twenty minutes, you would
      later swallow them in front of everyone - rest assured, nothing
      lethal within fifteen minutes. <em class="calibre8">I sspoke truth, as Mr. Potter
      could w-verify.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus looked at Harry pointedly, and Harry translated the last
      part Severus said to human language for his friends. Then, Severus
      conjured magical curtains to block the view so that none of the
      students could see or hear what others were doing, and a ticking
      countdown clock showed up in front of Harry - which Harry suspected
      was actually there to create pressure, instead of showing the time
      left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully applied an air-refreshing charm on himself, and
      began testing. He glanced at the delicious-looking steak, fried
      pork sirloin, stewed diricawl meat, vegetables, chocolate cake,
      apple pie and pumpkin juice among other items, and couldn't help
      but began to wonder if Severus and Mad-Eye wanted the three of them
      to ever enjoy meals again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">About a year ago, Mad-Eye had already given Harry a number of
      magical trinkets that could detect "certain standard methods only
      fools would use", and Severus had given them more magical items
      with similar purpose today. Harry first tested all the food with
      Mad-Eye's detectors, and no alarm was triggered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, of course, Mad-Eye and Severus would be more creative
      than that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry's hand touched the magical items Severus gave him
      today, he stopped, and realized that he should make sure those
      items actually performed their claimed functions, and didn't have
      any other functions added - such as being a secret portkey or
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Or, maybe the touch of such an item with certain things in
      the food would have some interesting effects.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, this is going to be interesting.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nineteen minutes later, Harry was facing a glass of water and
      two slices of bread that he couldn't find any magical or
      non-magical reason to reject - he even measured the density of
      water, and found nothing irregular. Slytherin commented
      sarcastically: <em class="calibre8">Bread and water, how pristine! Should we ask for
      some salt?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the time on the countdown clock turned to zero, the magical
      curtains and the clocks disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the smirk on Severus' face, Harry was pretty sure that at
      least one of them would show some very entertaining effects after
      consuming - Harry glanced at the chocolate eggplant in front of
      Hermione, and the glass of pumpkin juice in front of Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hoped that he wasn't going to be the clown within the next
      several minutes. A corner at the back of Harry's mind secretly
      commented: <em class="calibre8">Look at the smirk on your servant's face. I wonder
      if he were to serve -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry told that corner of himself to shut up, and picked up the
      glass when Severus looked at him first. With some determination,
      Harry allowed a small amount of water to enter his mouth, and he
      immediately spat out the bitter-tasting liquid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before asking what was in that liquid or calling for help, Harry
      pointed his wand to his mouth, and mumbled, "Aguamenti." As Harry
      began to wash his mouth to get rid of any residue liquid, the
      bitterness turned into sweetness - something too sweet. Then Harry
      realized: this was some type of artificial sweetener, which was
      bitter when the concentration was too high, and sweet when the
      concentration was right in range.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Severus' slightly amused voice confirmed Harry's guess: "And
      that is the effect of saccharin," Severus glanced at Draco, and
      explained, "which is a food additive that Muggles use to create
      sweet taste without adding sugar, but it can taste bitter if the
      concentration is too high. Saccharin isn't really toxic, so
      standard spells wouldn't give you any alarm. And Mr. Potter, as for
      your information, some calorie-counting Muggleborn witch has
      recently invented a spell that can test whether some food can be
      considered 'healthy' per Muggle nutritional standards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry finished washing his mouth, he saw that Hermione was
      giving suspicious and reluctant looks at her chocolate eggplant.
      Then, Hermione bravely took a bite with extraordinary grace, and
      spat it out immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hermione was washing her mouth and throwing diagnostic
      spells on herself, Severus explained with a smirk, "Nothing
      irregular or harmful, just our famous British cook." Then, the
      ex-Potion's Master's face turned stern, "However, the reason that
      Miss Granger didn't find out the unpleasant smell of this dish was
      the chocolate cake, which is now labeled 'love potion in it'. The
      actual irregular ingredient in that cake is named 'fairflair', a
      common ingredient in the magical perfume industry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked as if she wanted to hit her own head with a
      hammer, while Harry vaguely remembered reading about that potion
      ingredient somewhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus continued to explain. "Fairflair can create an illusion
      of smell that is both expected and desired by anyone. It bears
      resemblance to the effect of love potion in this sense, and it is
      used in some variations of love potion. Fairflair is not poisonous
      by itself, however, we have just observed how it could trick one's
      mind and mask any undesirable smells from the items nearby. Miss
      Granger, <em class="calibre8">I</em>, in particular, understand your disdain for
      vanity, and <em class="calibre8">Witch Weekly</em> - I have seen your face when I
      mentioned where to find the previous spell - yet, certain knowledge
      in the fashion business may prove very helpful. - And ah, Mr.
      Malfoy, be careful of what interesting effects you may experience
      when your beautification products are mixed with some other
      innocuous items. I would give all of you a list concerning this
      subject later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus was staring down at Draco, the blond boy gingerly
      picked up his pumpkin juice, took a small sip, carefully swallowed
      it down, and suddenly began to throw up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw some small black moving dots in Draco's vomit, which
      might be some sort of small insects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' words weren't that reassuring this time. "Mr. Moody
      claimed that he doesn't know how to raise 'Gu', or the insects some
      Asian wizards use to control others' mind. He also claimed that he
      only knew how to wrap sleeping insects up with alkali, which would
      only dissolve upon the contact with acid in one's stomach,
      therefore releasing the insects; and of course, how to wake up the
      insects once in contact with acid. Since I have no way to verify
      his words, I have personally collected the non-magical insects from
      a random farm in France this morning, and made him taught me how to
      wrap them up. However, I wouldn't put it pass Mr. Moody to have
      spread cultivated insects all over the world, or he might have
      taught me some wrong methods."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched as Draco's face turning whiter by each sentence.
      Actually, Harry himself wouldn't put it pass Mad-Eye to have passed
      up on such an excellent opportunity to control a Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err, Severus wouldn't really give Mad-Eye the chance to
      sabotage his godson, would he? However, I do have to ask Mad-Eye
      what he did, just in case.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To counter this problem and some other similar problems, there
      are some universal solutions." Severus gave Hermione a glance, and
      continued. "However, those would all require the use of the
      Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry got it: <em class="calibre8">we would also need a number of trolls,
      actually. Hmm, Severus is trying to use this opportunity to give
      Draco more protection. What a sneaky greasy bat.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus continued."There is a temporary solution that I have
      practised extensively recently, which is to transfigure your body
      into its perfect status, and then we can use the Stone to fix
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, wait, Severus doesn't want to use the untested troll
      solution, just in case that has some side-effects. He is quite
      careful with things related to Draco. Well, on the other hand,
      Severus might want me to consider how to give more protection to
      people around me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry began to contemplate whether he should give the power of
      trolls to Draco, Severus, Mad-Eye, Minerva, and even Mom. However,
      Dad probably can't survive…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus gave Harry and his bread a pointed look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry accepted his fate, and ate a tiny bite of the bread, which
      turned out to be -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, here is the salt we have asked for.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
