<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 51 Space Travel 8 Bionics, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 51: Space Travel Pt VIII, Bionics</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank Kuilin for editing this chapter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">8:25 am, July 25th, 1993 (Kiev time)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus skimmed through the third page of <em class="calibre8">Magical
      Pravda</em> delivered to his hotel room in Kiev, and found that
      Baikov was merely fined twenty galleons by the Kazakhstan Ministry
      of Magic for the incident where he reportedly got too drunk and
      thought flying trucks would be fun. Of course, <em class="calibre8">Magical
      Pravda</em>, which was published in Moscow, reported this in a
      mocking way - probably to show its readers what a chaos the other
      former Soviet states were in, so that its readers would feel better
      about their own lives, which wasn't great, either. It seemed that
      after Soviet Union collapsed, the magical society in Kazakhstan
      finally reversed back to how things should be run in the magical
      society: the most powerful wizard in the nation could safely
      disregard rules set by regular people as long as they pleased,
      instead of obeying the ridiculous rules set by Shakhov or the laws
      accepted by Dumbledore, where bureaucrats like Smirnov could
      intimidate the students of Comrades. Therefore, Baikov, who was
      currently the most powerful wizard in Kazakhstan, and who could be
      quite unreasonable after several bottles of Vodka, escaped the
      incident on July 22nd unscathed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Severus agreed that powerful witches and wizards should
      have privileges, and he didn't want the innocent man to be in too
      much trouble, this quick turn of events certainly didn't quite work
      in Severus' way. Severus got mentally prepared to duel Baikov or
      someone like Baikov again, and planned his journey accordingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus briefly praised himself for the many benefits that the
      raid of the British Library provided. For example, before the raid,
      none of the people on their side knew that NPP Zvezda was the
      primary spacesuit manufacturer in former Soviet Union. And although
      the Boy-Who-Lived had some vague memory of the name "RSC Energia",
      his memory didn't quite put that name together with the Soyuz
      spaceships, nor did he knew where the company was. Now with the
      results from the book raid, Severus had a clear idea about where to
      go, and what to get from these places. However, a trip to Baikonur
      Cosmodrome was still necessary, for they needed more detailed
      information on space launches and retrievals. Moreover, three days
      ago, due to Severus' injury and fatigue, and the fact that he was
      running out of time on his Time-Turner, Severus' search and
      investigation of Baikov wasn't as thorough as he hoped - he didn't
      even get any notes with things that he couldn't understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After going over the list of things that he would need to get
      from NPP Zvezda, Severus applied the usual sequence of concealing
      charms, plus one extra - according to the Boy-Who-Lived and his
      dad, since the color saw through the green goggles that Baikov wore
      exhibit more intense colors for the fireplace than a human being,
      the goggles were some sort of heat detection - something called
      "infrared". Thanks to the creativity of generations of criminals,
      Mad-Eye already knew a charm that could mask the true temperature
      of things, and it could work against the green goggles. Therefore,
      Severus added a "Temperacelus" charm to his usual sequence. This
      matter also served as a warning to Severus, that he wasn't the only
      wizard who could think of other detection methods besides the
      regular sense of human being. Professor Verres-Evans had said that
      certain kinds of snakes had infrared detectors as well. Severus
      wondered if the sneaky Blue Krait had the thing called "pit
      organs", and conveniently hid the fact from everyone. Well,
      considering the fact that Severus hadn't told Lucius about his
      echolocation system - though the blond bastard probably had already
      figured it out - Severus could only blame his own stupidity and
      ignorance of Muggle biology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sighed inwardly, and applied the same sequence of charms
      on Stella. "Stella, let's go to the southeast side of Moscow, and
      get both of us some material for spacesuits."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stella cawed, and a flame later, Severus began to look for
      proper Muggles to Legilimens for the exact location of the
      spacesuit production place in NPP Zvezda. After two days in
      Baikonur Cosmodrome, Severus already got better with identifying
      proper Muggles and navigating through the ugly and clunky Russian
      buildings. Moreover, luckily for Severus, although certain signs
      showed that Zvezda had once been guarded by wizards like Baikov, it
      was no longer the case now. A few hours later, Severus got
      duplicates of multiple spacesuits that looked different from the
      ones that he already had, plus enough lithium oxide, active
      charcoal, compressed oxygen and air tanks, and other consumable
      supplies he directly stealed - Severus didn't want to trust his
      life on transfigured Muggle chemicals. Judging from the level of
      theft that became so common these days in this country, Severus
      supposed the Muggle wouldn't even be surprised. However, just to be
      safe, Severus still fabricated a scene where some Muggle manager
      took the materials, and inserted the memory into the mind of two
      Muggle storehouse keepers, and left them some rubles as tips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The trip to RSC Energia went quite smoothly as well, where the
      biggest challenge had been how to find the things he needed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By 7:30 pm Moscow time, which was 4:30 pm Almaty time, it was
      time for Baikonur Cosmodrome again. Severus licked his lips, and
      said to Stella: "Stella, let's go to somewhere outside the
      apartment building of Baikov's home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, Severus decided that he would subdue Baikov and
      search his apartment first, instead of worrying where that wizard
      would be all the time while he was in Baikonur Cosmodrome - Severus
      really wanted to know the secrets of Shakhov's Hammer among other
      Interdicted magic, and there was no better time to grab them than
      before his trip to the Moon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus landed among several yellow apartment buildings. By this
      point, Severus already got used to the strange custom the Russian
      Muggles adopted - for some reason, all the apartment buildings
      across the former USSR looked almost identical to each other, and a
      wizard could easily mistake an apartment complex in Kiev for one in
      Almaty. Severus needed check the plates on the buildings and his
      echolocation charm to know which one was the building that he was
      looking for. To Severus' slight surprise, his echolocation charm
      pointed out at least five apartments that had magically concealed
      something. Severus reasoned that there could be other magical
      guards who lived around here. Severus could see that the magic on
      three of these apartments showed signs of wearing out, which might
      mean that owners were no longer maintaining them. Severus decided
      that he need to check these places as well, just in case it was
      some sort of cover-up on Baikov's side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus focused his echolocation charm on the apartment that was
      three windows away from Baikov's supposed home, where the window
      was opened a slit, and -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A stout figure with a bottle in one hand and a wand in another
      was peeking out from the window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed that Baikov, who was once considered a Comrade-to-be,
      wasn't a completely wasted idiot after all. Probably, he had
      developed some suspicion on the events three days ago. And Baikov
      probably had occupied vacant apartments, and he had magically
      altered the inner structure of the part that he took as
      residence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew that challenging a prepared wizard who was more
      powerful than yourself at his own place was an extremely bad idea.
      Therefore, he needed to cheat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus thought for a while, and then turned towards the nearest
      liquor store. Severus estimated, if there were a long queue of
      people lining up in the front door of the liquor store, Baikov
      should be able to notice the commotion, and might decide to add
      something to his Vodka storage. If this failed, Severus wouldn't
      lose much except some cheap liquor, which, for some reason, worked
      better than money in equal amounts in the former USSR.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few memory charms later, the two salesman there both thought
      that they had gotten quite some Vodka cheaply from black market,
      and they needed to sell the hard liquor after hours behind their
      manager's back. Therefore, after the manager left after the store
      was closed, the two salesman returned, and secretly called their
      friends. Within ten minutes, people began to rush toward the liquor
      store, and all left with quite some Vodka that Severus secretly put
      in the storage . And as good Russians did, a lot of people began to
      line up upon seeing that there were people in front of a store,
      without even asking what the line was for. And after they knew it
      was cheap Vodka, many rushed to get more cash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus had expected, Baikov noticed the commotion. And
      Severus was sure, with some simple charms, Baikov could hear what
      the long line was for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe years of alcohol consumption had compromised Baikov's
      judgement, maybe Shakhov had taught his student too well, Baikov
      didn't directly Apparate to the storage room of liquor store, and
      took liberties from there. Instead, the most powerful wizard in
      Kazakhstan left his home on foot to join the line for cheap
      Vodka.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second that Baikov stepped near Severus' magical trap at the
      entrance of the apartment building, Severus simultaneously trigger
      five magical pebbles, three fully loaded with Breaking Drill Hexes,
      stunners, powerful sleeping hexes, and anesthesia gases, and the
      other two loaded with light, sound and shock-wave cancelling
      charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The most powerful wizard in Kazakhstan was a lot more alert and
      powerful when he was not fully drunk, but clearly, he wasn't thirty
      times more powerful than Severus. Baikov's shield and magical
      protective items all winked out before all the spells on the three
      attacking pebbles were released. Needless to say, Severus bounded
      Baikov with more ways before he cleaned the scene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stella, let's go to the hotel room in Kiev." Severus grabbed
      Baikov, and said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flame later, Severus began his thorough search on Baikov and
      his pouch. Just as Severus was half way through with Baikov's
      pouch, Stella suddenly cawed. Severus' wand moved faster than his
      mind, it was after Severus jabbed his wand on the throat of the
      grey-haired man on the floor that Severus realized Baikov's fingers
      twitched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't move!" Severus demanded with the best American accent he
      could manage. Thanks to Shakhov Vocational School, Baikov should be
      able to understand English.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baikov slowly opened his eyes, and saw Severus as he took off
      the disillusionment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, Severus still have some magical and non-magical
      concealments on, he just showed his face to have a smoother
      conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was you, I know it!" The man on the floor groaned with a
      heavy Russian accent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what I want." Severus calmly said, just in case he
      could cheat some extra information out from Baikov.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're here after the Muggle space technology, aren't you?
      Where are you from? France? Japan? China? India?" Baikov asked
      instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus felt a bit ashamed of his Muggle countrymen that they
      weren't even considered potential opponents in the space race, and
      Severus supposed, Baikov didn't mention the Americans because the
      Americans already got what they wanted. Plus, Baikov might have
      been trained to give true but elusive information to interrogators
      by the KGB, which added problems to this conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't matter where I am from. I can be quite generous."
      Severus decided to directly ask, "What progresses have Russians
      made with magic and space technology?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flash of pain passed through Baikov's blue eyes as he
      answered: "Ah, not much. You know, magic doesn't work well with
      electronics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What were the successes and failures? What happened when you
      tried to send wizards up to the space?" Severus knew Baikov wasn't
      giving any real information. He asked more specifically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizards blow up rockets, I assume you already know?" Baikov
      smiled sardonically. "Or maybe I shouldn't tell you, so there is a
      chance that one of yours would become a gigantic fire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus briefly wondered if he should try torture, but the
      disillusioned Stella cried angrily toward him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sighed inwardly: <em class="calibre8">Merlin, should I give up all my
      evil thoughts from now on?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baikov heard phoenix's cry, and exclaimed: "A phoenix?! You have
      a phoenix? You are from the Great Britain!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus almost groaned. Well, given the fact that the only known
      domesticated phoenix was Fawkes, it wasn't a hard guess - in recent
      history, there had been one owned by a New Zealand wizard when he
      fought against Grindelwald, but the owner passed away under some
      mysterious conditions in the 1950s; the phoenix owned by a brave
      and powerful Russian sorceress, but the witch was killed by none
      other than Grindelwald himself; and Severus heard a Gryffindor got
      a phoenix shortly after Severus graduated Hogwarts, but that
      student failed to save anyone he wanted to save, and was killed in
      the first mission.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you know that I didn't get a new one?" Severus
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baikov replied: "Nah, too unlikely. - Wait, you want to, you get
      this phoenix to, to - " The most powerful wizard in Kazakhstan
      stuttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Shit! Should I erase his memory, and do this
      again?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baikov was relieved, and excited: "Oh, you have a phoenix! You
      can't be an evil guy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was quite annoyed when someone pointed out that he
      couldn't torture or kill innocent people anymore, unless he could
      honestly explain to Stella that by not doing so might endanger an
      entire planet - which was clearly not the case here. Severus
      gritted his teeth, and considered erasing Baikov's memory, and
      conduct this conversation all over again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baikov continued: "How did you get this phoenix? We wanted to
      try that, phoenix, but Dumbledore was the only one who owned
      it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore didn't agree to try this idea?" Severus was more
      surprised about the implication that Dumbledore didn't agree than
      the fact that someone had wanted to try.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, we didn't ask. I guess the Americans weren't exactly
      friends with Dumbledore, either." Baikov was still quite
      excited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus supposed, he shouldn't be too surprised about the fact
      that the world was loaded with politically shrewd idiots, and this
      made him feel a little bit better for his upcoming mission, since
      nobody had failed with a phoenix-powered space mission yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baikov continued: "You know, I have always been thinking, when I
      want to end - OK, by the end of my life, I would get into a space
      capsule, grab it, and get it to side-along Apparitions with me
      multiple times, and see where I can get to until -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew the distance one could Apparate had an limit. For
      someone like Severus himself, the limit for one Apparition was
      approximately eight hundred miles; and Severus estimated, if he
      were to grab something as heavy as a space capsule to side-along
      Apparate with him, the distance would be limited to somewhere
      around forty miles, not to mention that he needed to keep the
      relative position of himself and the space capsule all the time.
      Severus did a quick estimate, and found that he himself would
      probably lost the grasp on the relative position, and be killed
      within four or five Apparitions, which wasn't even enough distance
      for bypassing the half-botched Interdict on Electronics, not to
      mention the Interdict of Merlin. Even if Baikov was twenty times
      stronger than Severus, Severus still estimated that Baikov would be
      killed before he reached the so-called "geostationary orbit".
      Severus hoped he had spelt the name of the orbit right - anyway,
      according to the Boy-Who-Lived, that's where a lot of satellites
      stayed. However, from the way Baikov spoke about it, Severus
      guessed that had been Baikov's suicide plan for quite a while -
      maybe because of the collapse of the Soviet Union, or maybe because
      of his failure in the power games in Moscow, Baikov wanted to
      pursue something more meaningful than the petty mundane matters on
      Earth. However, it seemed Baikov had given up on an immediate
      suicide plan, probably thanks to the news about the Stone. And this
      meant -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smiled to himself, and asked: "What preparations have
      you made for your plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baikov gazed Severus for quite a while, then answered: "If you
      swear you are going to the space, and tell me the result if you
      succeed, I will tell you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus frowned: "You want an Unbreakable Vow? Are you trying to
      have a third person here as an escape plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baikov answered: "No! You see the golden Vodka bottle that
      you've casually thrown over there? It is an one-time Hammer - you
      know the Hammer, right? I can tell you how to make an one-time
      Hammer if you come back alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus thought of it for a while, and then answered: "I have to
      block your memory for a while, and you can't reveal it to anyone or
      anything in any way or form at anytime under any circumstances. And
      I have other requests as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In another room of the same Muggle hotel, Salazar let out a
      sigh: <em class="calibre8">In the name of Atlantis, one day, I shall tell Godric how
      much work I have done to Baikov and Severus to make them this
      gullible. Otherwise, I can hardly figure out a way to let Severus
      explain the source of my many uninterpretable notes. And this would
      certainly undermine Severus' relationship with my crazy
      descendant.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">By the way, the Boy-Who-Lived's Muggle stepfather said that
      some snakes have pit organs, but I don't have it. Hmm, I heard
      Merlin could adapt many animagus forms, wonder if I can do
      something about my animagus form, or if I can change into another
      type of snake.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-And there is something else that I need to figure out. It
      seems that the mudblood unicorn girl can learn to read written
      Parseltongue. How can this be possible? Is one of the two squib
      servants my descendant? This is such a dreadful thought.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Kraits don't have pit organs, so Lucius was wrongfully
      blamed here - his reputation didn't do him a lot of good here.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
