<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 52 Space Travel 9: PC or NPC?, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 52: Space Travel Pt IX, PC or NPC?</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank Kuilin for betaing this chapter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">7:34 am, July 26th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his headquarter office, Harry subconsciously tossed the
      scrambled eggs around in his plate, and sighed: "So, that's about
      all what Severus has told me on his dealings with Baikov - in
      Parseltongue. Hermione, I am not so sure what to make of the whole
      matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's face was also grim. She said: "Harry, I need a while
      to think about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, and said: "Take your time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Judging from his interactions with Baikov, Severus Snape is
      acting all by himself now.</em> Slytherin coldly said. <em class="calibre8">We
      shouldn't allow this kind of behavior. The Malfoys are leverages
      that we can use against him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff quietly reminded him: <em class="calibre8">Severus has never sworn his
      loyalty to us, remember? And we all agree that there is nothing
      wrong with people having their own judgement. Moreover, although
      this might not mean the same to us as Hermione's life being in
      danger, we do have to realize that Severus' life is at risk - he
      surely cherishes his own life, and Lucius and Draco care about his
      life to a certain degree. Severus' judgement called him to maximize
      his chances of staying alive.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's exactly the problem. I agree people can have their
      own judgement, as long as they don't act on it.</em> A corner that
      was much darker than Slytherin seethed through his teeth. <em class="calibre8">We
      need to invent something like the Mark of Light.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gryffindor roared in righteous fury, Hufflepuff gasped in
      absolute horror, and even Slytherin frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry told his dark side to shut up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ravenclaw spoke up: <em class="calibre8">Hey, aren't we even curious about what
      Severus got from Baikov? From my point of view, we can't call
      Severus' agreement with Baikov a bad one. Let's face it, Baikov was
      a student of the most powerful wizard in Russian - a lot of people
      have ranked Shakhov right below Dumbledore and Grindelwald. Severus
      managed to get quite a stack of notes from Baikov on Interdicted
      magic, and he did this without even promising Baikov that he would
      tell him about any of the magic he gained from the notes
      afterwards. This was a miracle, no less. If we were given the
      chance, we would definitely do the same as Severus did.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even Dark Harry had to admit that Severus had somehow pulled out
      a miracle - without consulting Harry. It is well-known that it was
      very hard to get information from powerful wizards who were also
      perfect Occlumens. The world's top wizards had tried to extract
      information from Grindelwald for almost fifty years now - Lucius
      had said he guessed some had secretly tried torture, but obviously
      that nothing had broken someone like Grindelwald. Moreover, Baikov
      knew how to make an one-time Hammer, therefore he probably already
      sealed himself against unwanted release of information, just like
      "Nicolas Flamel" did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin pondered: <em class="calibre8">Baikov has worked in the Cosmodrome for
      eleven years, he had done some serious preparations for his
      suicidal space mission for several months before the news about the
      Stone stopped his suicidal thoughts, and he continued that work now
      and then as a hobby after a few bottles of Vodka. Therefore, if we
      want to maximize the probability of success of this mission, which
      is possibly vital for winning this war, then retrieving information
      from Baikov is a good thing to do. And with Baikov's stolen and
      magically modified Soyuz return capsule and his semi-finished
      spacesuit, this could have saved us months of time, and hence this
      is a vital opportunity. However, I have a feeling that Severus is
      increasingly seeing himself as an ally to us, not as a subordinate.
      We need to quench this idea, and have a tighter leash on Severus -
      this is for Severus' own good. That man has troubles with seeing
      dangers even when it is right in front of him. He himself confessed
      on that shortcoming a month ago.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff quietly suggested: <em class="calibre8">Hey, maybe it is time for us
      to learn how to have an ally...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Hufflepuff's arguments were cut off by Hermione: "Harry, I
      think I would agree with you on certain points that you might
      argue, such as security implications. There are several things that
      I would like to point out. First, although I still think Severus
      has some problems telling the differences between right and wrong,
      Stella would cry at him if he were wrong, so this decision can't be
      evil. Second, with Stella on Severus' side to help with character
      judgment, Baikov probably isn't a bad person. However, as a matter
      of fact, I am more concerned for you than the whole matter - you
      weren't that excited about Baikov's desire to explore space, or
      that you might have finally met someone who shares your dream."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ahh…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't quite know what to say. He had always thought that
      exploring other galaxies would be the next great step for sapient
      beings on Earth, and he had often complained about why so many
      intelligent people just busied themselves with mundane daily
      matters, instead of something that could save the entire race.
      However, when another clever wizard turned out to have similar
      ideas, Harry's own mind also focused more on the pity strugglings
      among human beings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Have I fallen into the same trap that has prevented humans
      from attaining true greatness?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione continued: "Harry, I think I see what the problem is.
      You see most people you don't know as NPCs. You see me as a PC, so
      you are really excited when I share values with you; Severus is
      probably somewhere between a PC and a NPC in your mind, so you are
      also quite happy when it turned out that he wanted to revive
      someone, too. However, when someone you don't know - such as Baikov
      - also shares some rare ideas with you, it's more or less like a
      great plot in a science fiction book."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff said: <em class="calibre8">Hermione is right. We do see most people as
      NPCs. And the previous horrible idea about the Light Mark is a
      perfect example of this train of thought. By imposing the Light
      Mark, we reduce our followers into NPCs in a RPG game. And that's
      exactly what Voldemort has done by the Dark Mark - reducing people
      to NPCs. And see what came out of that - Severus' betrayal might or
      might not fit into the Prophecy that led to Voldemort's first
      failure; Voldemort ended up floating in the space for ten years
      because he didn't tell Bellatrix where to find even one of his many
      horcruxes; and Voldemort had no idea that two of his most powerful
      servants were Parselmouths...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gryffindor also raised a point: <em class="calibre8">You know who had actually
      imposed a "Light Mark" to many people? Comrade Mikhail
      Andreyevich</em> <em class="calibre8">Shakhov. And see how that ended up for the
      cause he fought for - his "NPCs" overthrew Soviet Union after he
      died, just to get rid of the "Light Mark". Remember, Shakhov's
      cause was only Communism and the Soviet Union. Do you want to
      imagine what our subordinates would try to get rid of their "Light
      Mark"?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even Slytherin agreed: <em class="calibre8">Now even I feel lucky that we refused
      Professor Quirrell's suggestion about the Light Mark the moment he
      raised it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cold sweat ran down Harry's spine even as he felt lucky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... Treating people as PCs is also benefiting us in other ways.
      Remember our first mock battle? Back then, Sunshine won the battle
      by combining the wits of other people. Like you told me, when
      Severus and Lucius had - or they thought they had - good ideas,
      they told you about the ideas. I bet they never did that with
      You-Know-Who. Harry, not only people who are near us are PCs -"
      Hermione paused in mid-sentence, and carefully asked, "What
      happened, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Err, I wholeheartedly agree with you, that people are not NPCs.
      And I shall never impose any Light Mark -" Harry found that he had
      let his mind slip, but he decided to finish his sentence anyway, so
      that Hermione would know another circumstance where she had to stop
      him or anyone else who might try the same, "- onto anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You, what?" Hermione asked in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry then explained to Hermione how Dark Harry had come up with
      the idea, and how the result of the Cold War had taught him
      better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at Harry in wide eyes. After quite a while, she
      said with a bit of stutter: "O-OK, Harry, I understand. And, of
      course, I would try my best to stop anyone who would try this
      approach."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gravely nodded.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
