<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 55 Space Travel,12, Phoenix, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 55: Space Travel Pt XII, Abilities of Phoenixes</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">6:52 pm, July 27th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the data they collected today for phoenix energy
      and food consumption, with Dad laughing hard and Hermione giggling
      in the background.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Originally, Harry had estimated phoenixes would consume similar
      amount of oxygen and food as non-magical birds of the same size.
      However, Stella proved that assumption wrong once and again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">First, Stella was asked to sleep in the dormant status in the
      transparent measurement box, which Dad provided the design, Severus
      transfigured into reality, and fixed by the Stone. The oxygen she
      consumed and carbon dioxide she produced was only approximately
      1/150 of a sleeping non-magical turkey, measured with the same set
      of device. This meant phoenixes were really efficient in energy
      conservation, which wasn't that surprising according to the
      standards of magic, but that was enough to make Professor Michael
      Verres-Evans' eyeballs drop - he couldn't understand how a bird
      with slightly higher body temperature than a human being could use
      so little energy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second experiment was to measure the metabolism rate of
      Stella when she was awake and walked around in the measurement box.
      This time, the oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production was
      about one tenth of that of a turkey. Considering the fact that
      Stella was going on a trip to the Moon, this was a good news.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Harry asked Severus what kind of food phoenixes ate.
      Severus answered that he had seen Fawkes eating Dumbledore's
      sweets, while Stella preferred cuttlefish. Harry wanted to ask
      whether Severus liked cuttlefish, and whether Severus had
      conveniently omitted certain food items that were attractive to
      bats, but he decided to ask how much food Stella ate per day
      instead. To this question, Severus slightly frowned, and answered:
      "Stella seems to have an almost bottomless stomach. I have once fed
      her about ten kilograms of cuttlefish, she not only ate all the
      meat, but also did it without any apparent increase in her weight.
      And from the looks, she could eat a lot more. However, Stella can
      also go without eating anything for a whole day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew Aguamenti produced water without the disappearance of
      water from any known lake, and there was a charm named "Arresto
      Momentum", so the Conservation of Mass, Energy and Momentum Laws of
      Muggle physics didn't really apply while magic was around. However,
      this was still somewhat hard for Harry to accept without seeing it
      with his own eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took out a mechanical balance from his pouch, and asked
      Stella to stand on it. The balance said 10.4 kilograms. Harry asked
      a house-elf to get one pound of cuttlefish, and let Severus fed
      Stella. As the amount of meat on Severus' hand diminished, Harry
      watched the number on the balance grew slowly from 10.4 to 10.9
      kilograms, and suddenly, with a few flaps of wings, the number
      dropped to 10.5 pounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Michael Verres-Evans' eyeballs dropped again, and so
      were Harry's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Stella converted most of the food she just ate into carbon
      dioxide and water with a few flaps of wings?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was the only reasonable Harry could come up with, and he
      had to test this. Therefore, Stella and ten pounds of cuttlefish
      were put into the transparent measurement box, this time with a
      larger mechanical balance below the whole system. Stella seemed to
      enjoy this part of the experiment a lot, for she happily ate the
      cuttlefish, with occasional flaps of wings. To Harry's slight
      relief, the weight of the entire system stayed constant, which
      meant that the Conservation of Mass still applied here. Harry knew
      this didn't mean much in face of the arbitrary acceptance of Muggle
      physics by magic, but it was good to know some part of the magical
      world still ran in similar laws as in the Muggle one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just at this moment, Hermione yelled urgently: "Stella, are you
      comfortable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stella raised her head, curiously cawed, and turned back her
      food.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone looked at Hermione curiously, and the Girl-Who-Revived
      explained: "This device was designed to measure <em class="calibre8">slow</em>
      oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production, so it provided
      oxygen from the oxygen tank <em class="calibre8">slowly</em>. If my estimation is
      right, each time Stella flaps wings, the oxygen level in the box
      should drop to around 1% to 4%, and this could lead to suffocation
      in seconds for non-magical animals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And apparently, Stella didn't care about how the stupid
      respiratory system of non-magical animals worked. She just pecked
      the cuttlefish, and occasionally flapped her wings, consuming the
      majority of oxygen in the container.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew what Stella was doing was not that impressive by the
      standards of magic - for whatever reason, his pouch could ate heavy
      books without any increase of weight on a mechanical balance - but
      this was still amazing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And in the name of Atlantis, how do phoenixes store
      energy?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Michael Verres-Evans was also admiring the golden-red
      firebird, and said in a mesmerized voice: "Oh my God, Stella is
      designed for space travel, isn't she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry knew about magic, he had been against the idea that
      the appearance of any natural animal was "designed" by some higher
      power. However, the two years in the magical world already taught
      him better. Wizards had been breeding magical animals according to
      their arbitrary designs for thousands of years. For example, after
      reading the Auror interrogation reports on Hagrid, Harry had
      absolutely no idea how the half-giant cross-bred fire crabs, which
      were a kind of arthropods with gems on their shells (if Muggle
      taxonomy meant anything here), with manticores, which were sapient
      lion-like mammals with human-level intelligence. Harry didn't
      really want to ponder on the ethic questions on how Hagrid made a
      proud English-speaking creature to mate with a crab, or whether
      blast-ended skrewts were sapient.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, Harry decided to test the bold hypothesis that Dad
      proposed. After several hours of testing, it seemed that Dad was
      right: Stella could withstand heat up to 150 degrees Celsius; and
      she could stay in a container submerged in liquid nitrogen for at
      least 15 mins, and the inside temperature of the container was
      around -150 degrees Celsius with firebird's slight heating. Stella
      could also live with low oxygen level and low vacuum, for 1 Torr of
      oxygen alone could make Stella happy, and she could withstand
      vacuum around 0.01 Torr (the lowest pressure Harry's cheap
      second-hand mechanical vacuum pump could provide) for at least five
      minutes. And phoenixes obviously didn't suffer from decompression
      sickness, for Stella could jump back and forth between the vacuum
      container and atmosphere without any problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the end, everyone agreed: phoenixes were indeed designed for
      space missions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Therefore, the rumor that phoenix came from the Mirror
      might be true, and Atlanteans probably did want the good and brave
      phoenix owners to explore the space. And for thousands of years,
      wizards on Earth didn't figure this out.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, a weird idea came to Harry, and he asked: "Professor
      Snape, can Stella eat some non-traditional food, such as sulfur,
      and metals?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus, who had been both amazed by Stella's ability and
      annoyed by Harry's ideas to "torture" the poor creature, stared at
      Harry as if he would protect his pet from any further cruelty: "Mr.
      Potter, although sulfur is a potion ingredient, and some stupid
      Muggles had considered gold ingestion as a good idea, I wouldn't
      recommend metals to anyone as food."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Dad had to explain green sulfur bacteria and iron
      bacteria metabolism to the wide-eyed potioneer. Finally, Severus
      reluctantly agreed to let Stella try. Harry briefly considered the
      possible products of sulfur oxidation, and decided that need to be
      tried in a closed container with a lot of alkali. However, after
      Stella reluctantly ate some cutted iron wires, and excreted some
      red solids - possibly iron(III) oxide, Harry guessed he didn't
      really need to try sulfur. However, there was indeed another
      reaction that Harry wanted to try. "Err, Professor Snape, can
      Stella eat magnesium and burn it in nitrogen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bad-tempered phoenix owner seethed through gritted teeth:
      "Mr. Potter, you have at most two other experiments to run with
      Stella today, so plan wisely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stella cawed in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry supposed that coming up with various seemingly cruel
      experiments that you wanted to conduct on a phoenix wasn't the best
      way to consolidate the loyalty from its owner, and the "two
      experiments" limit was particularly cruel on a Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stuttered: "Em, ah, Professor Snape, it's time for dinner
      now. Could you give me sometime to think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The moment Severus and Draco disappeared in Stella's flames,
      Hermione began giggling and Dad began laughing hard: "Oh, Harry,
      this - this professor does know you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to focus on the datasheet, and determined that he
      was the only <em class="calibre8">sane</em> person in the world at this moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Has anyone considered the questions that whether Hagrid's
      mother was capable of consent, and whether Hagrid's father raped
      her? And to mate a crab, and a creature with human-level
      intelligence? Seriously?</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
