<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 59 ST16, Emotional Choices, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 59: Space Travel Pt XVI, Emotional Choices</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I want to thank Dan for beta-ing this chapter.</p>
<hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">6:57 pm, August 3rd, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius smirked toward Mad-Eye, as the bad-tempered Auror was
      sending the three Malfoys a deadly glare while slamming the door of
      Severus' old office closed. Then, the blond-haired ex-Lord Malfoy
      began to keenly observe Severus from his back, as his best friend
      and future Lord applied the usual series of private and protection
      spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' robes were spotted with mud of several different
      colors, his back was a bit hunched, his shoulders were slack, his
      usually silky voice was hoarse, while the movements of his wand
      hand were still precise. And the golden bird of fire on his
      shoulder looked sad, and somewhat confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius shot Narcissa and Draco an inquiring look, but neither
      his wife nor his son seemed to know the reason for the current
      situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">About half an hour ago, Lucius served his second cleaning duty
      since he entered Nurmengard by washing used meal trays with a rag.
      The recent change in Nurmengard which required prisoners to serve
      as house-elves without magic was supposed to teach the inmates some
      moral lessons, yet Lucius consider this a way to humiliate the
      prisoners. While the house-elves must be hitting their heads
      against walls upon their work being taken away, Lucius also
      overheard some guards complained about the additional work it
      brought them. If it were any other prison, Lucius might suspect
      that the prison management wanted to secretly sell some of the
      house-elves, which had become increasingly expensive these days;
      however, since this was Nurmengard, Lucius had to suspect something
      else was at work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the ex-Lord Malfoy was plotting how to present this new
      development to the Boy-Who-Lived, so that the cleaning duty sounded
      more like a clever scheme, such as a possible escape plan for Lord
      Grindelwald, instead of a proper form of punishment the
      Girl-Who-Revived might approve of, Mad-Eye came and hauled Lucius
      to Hogwarts. This act itself wasn't suspicious, so Lucius gladly
      threw away the rag, and assumed that the Boy-Who-Lived wanted his
      service.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, after arriving at Hogwarts, Lucius was told to change
      to something appropriate, which was bizarre, for Mad-Eye seemed to
      gain a twisted sense of satisfaction upon the sight of a Malfoy in
      prison uniform, and the Boy-Who-Lived and the Girl-Who-Revived
      thought prison uniform served Lucius justice, while Severus was
      usually unaware of the status of robes he himself was wearing. A
      few minutes later, Mad-Eye basically handed Lucius to Severus'
      care, which was more bizarre. And apparently, his best friend and
      intended Lord wanted to have a family dinner with all three
      Malfoys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take a Malfoy to figure out something was wrong with
      Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-And if Severus' problem is severe enough to convince even
      Mad-Eye that he needed to fetch me…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius became really worried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The powerful black-haired wizard turned around, and gave a weary
      smile to Narcissa. "Narcissa, thank you so much for arranging this
      dinner on such short notice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa returned an instinctive polite smile, and said: "Dear
      Severus, this is the least I can do. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even when Lucius was busy trying to figure out the situation, he
      could hear the lack of subtlety and complaint in his wife's reply.
      Lucius knew Narcissa was bored in her confinement in Hogwarts, and
      he knew it was his fault for getting her into all this, yet he
      couldn't see much he could do to lessen her pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they took their seats, Lucius almost entered a trance as he
      looked at the woman across the long dining table. He had imagined
      Narcissa's impeccable smile, elegant demeanor, slim features,
      beautiful face, and lovely blue eyes many times when he held dinner
      parties in the Malfoy Manor. At other times, Lucius had imagined
      her being present in just another room in the huge Manor, such as
      being still asleep in their bed while he was taking a morning
      shower, or singing to their little dragon a lullaby before he
      entered the nursery. Lucius had imagined it so often that he was
      slowly going mad, and Draco was the only thing that kept him in
      this hateful world. That was why Lord Malfoy had donated handsomely
      to the insanity ward in St Mungo's, and had taken the chance of
      inspecting St Mungo's to visit the Fourth Floor, to study the
      ravings from the patients with permanent head damages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, Narcissa was alive and breathing, sitting across the table,
      being the hostess of a Malfoy dinner party, Draco's mother, and
      most importantly, Lucius' wife, all for real. Lucius felt sourness
      in his eyes, but quickly kept himself collected in front of their
      son and guest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa had noticed Lucius' gaze, her blue eyes meeting his,
      and the previous resentment was replaced by sorrow and love.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius wanted to ease her sorrow, to hug her, and to -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ex-Lord Malfoy quickly stopped this train of thought in
      front of his son and future Lord, and started pleasant small talk
      with Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired wizard, who had definitely noticed the silent
      emotional exchange, politely offered his opinion on the weather of
      Midlands England at this time of year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius found this a bit odd, for Hogwarts was in Scotland, the
      Malfoy Grange was in Wales, London was in Southeast England, the
      former USSR was on the Continent, so what was Severus' business in
      Midlands?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius searched his memory for Severus' connection with
      Midlands, then remembered that the Prince family home was in
      Lincolnshire, and the horrible run-down house that Severus grew up
      in was in a small town near Birmingham.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Did Severus visit his ancestors' graves before he took on the
      space mission? This might partially explain his emotional unrest,
      but why would Mad-Eye consider this sufficient reason to get the
      Malfoys to dine with Severus?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-More importantly, did Severus talk about the Midlands to
      indicate something? If so, what is it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Being a Malfoy who had received the full set of trainings,
      Lucius had taken an effort to know more about every close kin of
      this useful ally and friend over the years. As it turned out,
      Severus didn't have anyone close to him: his mother Eileen Snape
      nee Prince passed away sometime during Severus' sixth year in
      Hogwarts, and his despicable muggle father (Tobias or something)
      died in prison around that time as well. Lucius didn't know much
      about the muggle side of Severus' other family members, but he knew
      Severus' maternal grandmother, Virgo Prince nee Lestrange, had
      passed away when Eileen was in her second year in Hogwarts; and
      Severus' maternal grandfather, poor old Pius Prince, had a stroke
      upon the news that his only daughter secretly married a muggle, and
      stayed in the long-term ward in St Mungo's ever since. According to
      the visitor log in the Fourth Floor that Lucius had flipped
      through, Severus visited his grandfather approximately once per
      year. Back then, Lucius had even wondered, in case Lord Malfoy did
      end up in the Fourth Floor, how often Draco would visit his mad
      father, how often would his many friends visit him, and if Severus
      would pay him a brief courtesy visit while visiting Pius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Is it something to do with Pius Prince? Would Severus ask us to
      visit his grandfather once in a while if his mission fails? Or
      would he want us to remind the Boy-Who-Lived to think of a way to
      cure the ones with brain damages?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius knew a good right-hand man should relieve his Lord of
      worries about his kins, yet visiting one's unresponsive grandfather
      was not something that you could take upon without being asked, for
      your Lord might not want to be reminded that his family history was
      a teaching lesson for all pureblood families on what might happen
      if your daughters' education failed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as cold appetizer appeared on the table, Lucius' future
      Lord volunteered an important message: "The schedule for my trip
      will be advanced to an earlier date."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' eyes widened. He knew great rituals usually required
      months or even years of preparation, yet Severus had only had his
      pheonix for two weeks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-What happened? Why such urgency? Is there any more danger of
      the world that I am not aware of?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Moreover, even if Severus would go to the Moon within the next
      hour, Mad-Eye is not the kind of person to get me out of prison to
      meet Severus. There must be something going on here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's eyes darted to his godfather. His mouth opened as if
      wanting to ask why, but then closed again. Narcissa exchanged a
      worried glance with Lucius. And even the snakes and wyverns on the
      tableclothes started to twist uneasily upon the change of emotions
      in the dining room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After some eye exchanges, the Malfoys decided that Lucius should
      do the talking. The ex-Lord Malfoy allowed appropriate amount of
      worry and tremble enter his voice, "my dear brother, I wasn't
      expecting - I wasn't expecting this to be so soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus regarded him with a bitter and apologetic smile. The
      black-haired wizard casually tossed the sliced deviled diricawl
      eggs on his plate, apparently not in a mood to eat. The man's eyes
      wandered to the crystal glass that was filling itself with blue
      nettle wine. His right hand put down the fork, and picked up the
      wine. "Please excuse my ill manners, Mrs. Malfoy. I shouldn't have
      - Well, thank you so much for this dinner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was a bit disappointed by Severus' sudden change of
      topic, but he and Narcissa had no choice but to assure Severus that
      he was always welcomed, and preparing this dinner wasn't a burden
      at all for Narcissa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa began to describe how the house-elves in Hogwarts and
      the ones she brought from Malfoy Manor were in such an ecstasy when
      they knew they would prepare a formal dinner for all the Malfoys
      and their most beloved and honored friend, that she had to calm
      them down a bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sparky wanted to prepare twenty-one courses for the dinner,
      while Sweety proposed that we should have twenty-one sweet desserts
      instead. Unfortunately, I had to break their poor hearts by saying
      that we wouldn't serve so many courses - let alone desserts - since
      this would be a family dinner, instead of a state one." Narcissa
      offered pleasantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The overreaction of Sparky, the Malfoy butler house-elf,
      reminded Lucius of the bitter fact that this was the first formal
      dinner with both their master and mistress for the first time in
      eleven years. As for the house-elf named Sweety, Lucius assumed
      that it was a Hogwarts elf, trained by the old bumblebee
      Dumbledore, and it proposed twenty-one sweets just to annoy
      Sparky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus politely smiled, and took a large gulp of nettle wine,
      which made Lucius worried. The Severus he knew did not indulge with
      alcohol, and it would be more normal for Severus to deride the
      Malfoys for the rumored hair-glossing effect of nettles. However,
      it seemed that the powerful black-haired wizard wanted to get
      drank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Severus had taken several gulps, Lucius decided that he
      should send the house-elves a signal to serve the next course
      immediately, so that their guest would at least have something
      before getting drank. Just as Lucius was about to tap his left
      pinky finger on the table, he found that Narcissa was already
      tapping hers. They exchanged a conspiratory smile, and Lucius'
      heart lightened up despite his worries for his best friend and
      future Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Lucius' slight relief, Severus did pick up his spoon, and was
      about to take some borshch. However, the powerful wizard stared at
      the beef, cabbage, and beetroot, and the spoon stopped in mid-air
      for a fraction of a second, and the corner of his mouth twisted a
      little.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus was taking several courtesy bites, Narcissa gave
      Lucius an apologetic glance, and Lucius returned her an assuring
      smile. Lucius knew if he was the host, he wouldn't be so thoughtful
      as to include something from Russia to compliment his guest; he
      would probably go with the default bouillabaisse, which Severus
      would consider pretentious. Now it seemed that Severus wasn't so
      keen on topics relating to the former USSR.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked inquiringly at his parents, and was about to take
      on the responsibility of saving the conversation, yet his words
      were stopped by a rather strange expression from his godfather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' black eyes regarded Draco's light blond hair and his
      young face, and then his eyes went sideways, and studied Lucius'
      feature in a rather odd way. Then the black-haired wizard spoke:
      "Narcissa, Lucius, you might have heard of my uncle Severus, whom I
      was named after."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius nodded. In a society with only approximately ten thousand
      people, and everyone went to the same school, every pureblood could
      easily count three generations of most other pureblood families -
      except the Weasleys, there were simply too many redheads. And since
      the Princes were a laughstock among purebloods, Lucius did know
      that Pius and Virgo Prince had a son and a daughter, and the elder
      son, Severus, died at a very young age, probably before
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now as I think of it, the disease that took him away was likely
      to be measles, or at least my mother probably thought so." Severus'
      eyes glanced at the perplexed Draco and Lucius, and explained.
      "Measles is a contagious disease that was once rampant in the
      muggle world, and it can be dangerous to ones who have not been
      exposed to it. According to my mother, her elder brother developed
      high fever and red rashes soon after his first trip to Diagon
      Alley, and that was why my mother was never allowed to step in any
      public place before she had to get her wand for Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired man's lips twisted into a bitter smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Lucius knew he'd better figure out the implication of
      such events on his future Lord's psychology (a hateful yet useful
      muggle word that Lucius learnt recently), his raw instinct wanted
      to put an air bubble around Draco's head each time he got around
      the Granger girl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Those dirty muggles and mudbloods!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remember my mother used to take me to muggle hospitals to get
      vaccine shots when I was very young. And when I was approximately
      nine years old, although money was tight, and I'd already been
      vaccinated against measles when I was younger, my mother still
      dragged me to a private muggle hospital to receive an advanced
      measles vaccine that had not yet been covered by NHS." Severus'
      voice was mournful, and black eyes wandered to the ceiling, and
      into the past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Lucius could tell Severus recounted an emotional event,
      the pureblood wizard had no idea of several important concepts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-What is a vaccine shot? Why is it related to measles? And what
      is NHS?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa took in an involuntary breath, and she looked all of a
      sudden ashamed of herself. "Severus, I am so sorry to hear that.
      And you mean Draco should -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean all of you." Severus replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was more perplexed than before. And from the look on
      Draco's face, the boy was trying hard to remember something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As cuisses de grenouille replaced soup on the table, the
      half-blood wizard began to explain vaccines to his best friend and
      godson, and why many contagious diseases were no longer serious
      threats in the muggle society.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because of vaccines, the prevalences of many potentially
      dangerous diseases are quite low among first- and second-world
      muggles. Vaccines for chickenpox were invented recently, and I've
      gotten one shot last year, for I suspect dragon pox might be a
      variant of the muggle disease chickenpox, - the symptoms are
      similar, and both of them are more dangerous for adults than
      children. " Severus concluded his explanation with a significant
      look toward Lucius and Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' eyes widened in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Did Severus mean that the dirty muggles are not only spreading
      dangerous diseases that kill pureblood wizards, but they are also
      inventing things that could prevent diseases, and potentially save
      wizards?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-If only muggles had invented chickenpox vaccine earlier...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius remembered his father, Lord Abraxas Malfoy, in his last
      days: his fair skin became green, green-and-purple bumps erupted
      everywhere, his hair fell out, the high fever and uncontrollable
      cough, bleeding problems…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Lucius realized, even if the muggles had invented the
      chickenpox vaccine before his father was infected, the Malfoys most
      likely wouldn't take the vaccine shots as Severus - and possibly
      many other mudbloods and half-bloods - did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Comrade Shakhov used to require all wizarding children in
      Russia to receive muggle vaccines before entering magical school,
      and it didn't seem to have much negative impact on the health of
      wizarding children." Severus said meaningfully to Draco and
      Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius pondered on this. His instinct told him not to trust the
      dirty muggles, however Severus had little reason to lie about
      something that a whole nation did, and it rang a tone of the kind
      of incredible yet true things in Potter's books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Moreover, Narcissa knows about this vaccine thing, and she
      thinks that she should have Draco take it. Therefore, it is likely
      that vaccine is a good thing in the muggle world. As for the NHS
      thing, it sounded like it has something to do with money, which
      isn't a problem for the Malfoys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Although the Stone can heal most diseases, the "haem-something
      type B"Severus talked about sounded like a disease that can hurt
      the brain, which the Stone cannot cure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds like an excellent idea!" Lucius forced himself to
      smile, and told himself that he was only being pragmatic as all
      Malfoys should, and not admitting that muggles could be better than
      wizards in some very small and very specific field of healing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, dear Severus, Draco is so lucky to have you as his
      godfather." Narcissa said sincerely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smiled a bit smugly despite his generally gloomy
      mood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was glad to see that Severus still enjoyed sincere
      praises, so he was about to shower his best friend with them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, Severus' trail of thoughts were more unpredictable than
      usual, as the man said: "Our dear Headmistress Minerva McGonagall
      is committing a slow suicide by trying to be the Headmistress and
      the Transfiguration Professor at the same time, among all other
      things. She might have collapsed if not for the Stone. I wonder, if
      she might need assistance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took Lucius a moment to make the connections: Severus is
      indicating that Narcissa should be the one to propose the idea that
      all British witches and wizards should take muggle vaccines, as a
      gesture of submission in front of the Boy-Who-Lived. And Narcissa
      would become a player on the board for her own right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This scheme was certainly clever, and the idea that everyone
      should get vaccinated was definitely something that a witch who was
      forced to spend eleven years in the muggle world could propose, yet
      it contradicted Lucius' instinct on so many levels that he couldn't
      point out all of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Being pragmatic and taking advantages of the rare good things
      muggles produced was one thing, yet letting everyone know was
      completely another matter. The Malfoys had served muggle royalties
      for gold and land before, and there was even a muggle queen who
      wanted to marry the first Lucius, yet nobody in the wizarding world
      needed to know about it - so long as they were ignorant of the
      amount of gold and silver the muggle nobility could offer, the
      Malfoys were without competition in this regard. However, if
      everyone knew the good things muggles produced, the Malfoys
      wouldn't have much advantage over other wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-However, since the Boy-Who-Lived and the Girl-Who-Revived were
      raised in the muggle world, they should know the vaccine thing
      already. But why didn't they propose it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Lucius asked as such.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The half-blood wizard answered sardonically: "Vaccines are so
      common in the muggle world, that our beloved Lord and Lady probably
      don't know that wizards don't have them, for I, a half-blood,
      wasn't fully aware of this until several years after becoming Head
      of Slytherin. However, at that time, I wasn't - let's say, I wasn't
      in a position that could easily propose such an idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-And Severus probably didn't care enough for anyone in the
      wizarding world. Otherwise, he could simply leave some indications
      in the Muggle Studies Professor's mind. Not until Draco became his
      godson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' eyes wandered to his beloved dragon, and found that
      Draco was looking at his mother. Lucius turned his gaze to his
      wife, and saw that her hands were slightly tight on the utensils,
      and her neck was a bit too straight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-She is nervous about - herself? Or about my reactions?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Lucius joined the Death Eaters, they had made a conscious
      decision that Lucius should be the only one to risk his life, and
      Narcissa should play the role of a good pureblood wife. However,
      things had changed. The game nowadays was more complex and
      dangerous than any Malfoy had played in the past one thousand
      years, and becoming a player meant danger. Most parts of Lucius
      were exalted by such a challenge, yet a small part of him was
      intimidated and always wanted to flee. It was one thing to risk
      yourself, it was completely another matter that someone you loved,
      lost, and recently returned would risk her life…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' hands whitened on his knife and fork. In his mind, a
      respectable pureblood witch should raise children, run business,
      manipulate Wizengamot, but not become a lunatic like Bellatrix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But our plan didn't work so well in the previous war. Lucius
      ruefully remembered. Maybe it would be better to let Narcissa to
      become a player without becoming Bellatrix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The idea that Narcissa wouldn't be in the first line of fire
      calmed Lucius a little.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In another corner, some dark intuition told the pureblood
      patriarch that if Narcissa were to become a player in her own
      right, she might drift away from him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-But she is in pain. One Malfoy is more than enough for
      imprisonment, and there is no need for two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius swallowed down his bitterness, gave Narcissa an
      encouraging smile, and turned to Severus: "My dear Severus, I
      always pride myself with my vocabulary, yet I can hardly find words
      to describe your cunning, and more importantly, to properly thank
      you for your love and kindness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Lucius began to compliment Severus that he was more
      loyal to his family and friends than Lady Hufflepuff, and was
      probably more cunning than Lord Slytherin himself, the ex-Head of
      Slytherin suddenly nervously coughed, his black-eyes bewildered for
      a second, and then began to share his impression of the young
      Petunia Evans, his general knowledge on muggle professors and
      dentists, and the politics among Hogwarts staff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius listened, and slowly and sadly realized what Severus was
      doing: he is arranging for the Malfoys in case he wouldn't come
      back. He is indeed the best and most loyal friend that I have ever
      had, and probably will ever have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The grim possibility of losing Severus saddened Lucius. It
      wasn't quite in the same way as when Lucius watched black cat flu
      taking away his mother, and later dragon pox his father, but it
      became close. Both diseases were potentially fatal, but the
      majority of patients were eventually cured. Lucius had experienced
      the hope, the anxiety, the fanatic search for any healing magic,
      the devastation, and the final departure - no, not final departure,
      the cursed Boy-Who-Lived would probably figure out a way to bring
      everyone back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius managed a smile on his face, and continued listening to
      his dear friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During one course followed by another, Severus shared his
      knowledge on the politics among Hogwarts staff, and important
      matters relating to the student body during his tenure in Hogwarts,
      in the meanwhile taking more alcohol than he usually did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Lucius usually wanted his guests to loosen up and be
      more talkative after a few drinks, the ex-Lord Malfoy began to
      sense that he might not want to know what Severus was really
      holding back. He had to signal the house-elves to switch the
      beverages to ones containing less alcohol.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Or is he just waiting for an opportunity to tell me
      something?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whatever it was, Lucius guessed it wasn't good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And when dessert was on the table, Severus stopped his
      revelation of Professor Sinistra, and a twisted smile appeared on
      the corner of his lips. The black-haired man sighed, and said:
      "Narcissa, may I borrow your husband for a few hours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-I am to stay for the night?!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius felt a wave of rejoicing, even though part of his brain
      was quite aware of the fact the following few hours probably would
      not be easy, while another part of him reminded that it must have
      costed Severus a lot to let the paranoid Auror to allow Lucius to
      stay for the night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few bites of blancmange, Severus thanked Narcissa again,
      and then retreated to the study with Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Lucius could speak, Severus ordered a bottle of
      firewhisky from house-elves, and poured two glasses. "I am sorry,
      Lucius, but I may need some alcohol now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stella looked at her master disapprovingly, yet remained
      silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the black-hair potioneer took a large gulp of alcohol, he
      drew out three bottles of green potions, and put them on the large
      oaken table ornamented with snakes and wyverns. "Antidote for
      alcohol, pour one down my throat in case you consider it
      necessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This really sounded ominous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sat down in one of the comfortable leather chairs,
      cleared his throat, his usually silky voice hoarse and shaky:
      "Lucius, there is something that I want to ask of you. You may
      decide whether you would like to do it or not after hearing the
      whole story. I - I don't know where to start, so I'll start with
      what Mad-Eye and the Boy-Who-Lived told me this afternoon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Severus told his best friend about the old photo of Lord
      Rasputin, Mad-Eye's theory, and the digging of his own ancestors'
      graves this afternoon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've sent hair from my parents, all my four grandparents, and
      all their supposed parents that I could find, to a muggle lab to
      test for their kinship." Severus' black eyes glistened with traces
      of water, his voice became blurry as he finished the full bottle of
      firewhisky. And his hand went to the first bottle of antidote for
      alcohol without Lucius' suggestion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pureblood wizard stared at the copies of magical and muggle
      photos: Lord Rasputin after his death, Tobias Snape, Nicolas Snape,
      Eileen Prince, and Virgo Lestrange. The faces were quite
      self-evident.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was indeed a rumor among purebloods with certain
      traditions, that making horcruxes would bring misfortune to one's
      offsprings, yet Lucius never thought the misfortune would come at
      such a literal sense. Then Lucius got it in absolute horror: this
      must be the second level of horcruxes, that you have to literally
      curse your offsprings, to let them produce your new body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus observed the horrified expression, and said: "So you
      must have realized."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, the curse of horcrux for one's offsprings is literally
      so." The blond wizard murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Severus asked in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the black-haired wizard straightened up, drank down the
      second bottle of antidote for alcohol in one gulp. "I'm such a
      utterly self-centered fool! I need to tell -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well, Mad-Eye must have been checking on this
      already."Severus slowly relaxed back down the chair, put one hand
      over his face, and his voice tired: "And I have just proved how
      slow I am."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Err, Severus didn't think of this? And what did Severus actual
      think of?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-The fact that he should avoid touching any horcrux? But that's
      pretty straight-forward without knowledge of the additional
      curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-The cause of family tragedy? But Severus has told me so in
      plain words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Lucius realized, and it terrorized him on another level:
      the curse encourages incest, and -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, Lucius couldn't even tell if measles taking away
      Severus Prince's life before the boy attended Hogwarts was a bad
      thing. Lucius didn't really want to ponder on what relationship
      Severus Prince might have with his younger sister and/or his mother
      if the boy entered puberty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Severus doesn't seem to have an improper relationship with his
      mother, though. But the existence of Tobias might explain this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Also, Severus probably shouldn't run all over the former USSR
      at this time. And that's why the Boy-Who-Lived and Severus decided
      that the launch date should be advanced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired wizard looked rather embarrassed, and his
      black-eyes were focusing on a snake on the oaken table, not on
      Lucius, as he said: "I know what I am asking may put you in a
      rather difficult position, but - before I figure out how to get rid
      of the curse, could you try to stop me if it seems like I - I want
      to lay down with some female?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Err…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was pleading in Severus' voice: "I know that process might
      just take less than an hour, probably before anybody would have the
      chance to intervene. Therefore, if I am dumb enough and weak enough
      to procreate anyway, under the influence of the curse or no, could
      you please be my child's godfather, and prevent me from meeting my
      daughter, or prevent my child's mother from meeting her son?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius didn't know any previous Malfoy had been told by their
      Lords to stop them from gaining certain pleasures. He should say
      yes and do this for his best friend, because friends should stop
      friends from committing unspeakable crimes of this nature; but
      saying yes might also mean to seriously offend his Lord at a time
      when the said powerful Lord might not be reasonable at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius knew Severus was expecting his answer, most likely in
      Parseltongue, and that was an answer that Lucius could not give
      lightly. Saying yes would mean that he had to rebel against his
      powerful Lord and face the potentially lethal ramifications, but
      saying no would mean he had to watch his best friend committ
      horrible crimes and falling forever into self-loathing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sighed. "Lucius, I am sorry for asking so much of you. I
      would block your memory, and -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired man hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-No, Severus would go to Mad-Eye Moody or the Boy-Who-Lived for
      this request. And Mad-Eye would just gladly castrate Severus, and
      curse him with who-knows-what!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Wait, Mad-Eye would request Severus to sacrifice his male part,
      and probably his sexual identity in a ritual!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will try my besst to sstop ssuch tragedy from happening or
      becoming worsse." hissed Lucius, and he added. "Pleasse try not to
      kill me."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
