<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 40 Nurmengard, Interlude, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 40: Nurmengard, Interlude, Message to Britain</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">3:42 pm, July 16th, 1993 (Kiev Time)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Circaduplucem!" Severus wiped sweat off his forehead, panted,
      and reapplied the powerful disillusion charm that his rejuvenated
      ancestor taught him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar studied the map of Kiev in his hands, and pointed to his
      left, "I think the former Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti of
      Ukraine building should be the fourth one on our left, and that is
      probably where we can find the wizards working for their Muggle
      government."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded, and gasped, "Yes, the Muggle minister I - I used
      Legilimens on, thought so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Control yourself, Severus. Otherwise, you will be stuttering in
      modern English as well." The thirty-something Lord Salazar
      Slytherin scolded. "And your learning speed of the Slavic languages
      is slower than mine!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus tried hard to prevent his wand hand from trembling, and
      followed his energetic ancestor and mentor's foot steps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be quick! We haven't even figured out where they are holding
      the nuclear talks yet, not to mention Russian's magical
      discoveries." Salazar strode towards the entrance of the former KGB
      building.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Panting hard, Severus ran after Salazar, so that he didn't need
      to enlarge the circle of Circaduplucem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What saved Severus from total magical exhaustion was the beeping
      sound from the double-sided mirror in his pouch. The black-haired
      man stopped, pulled the mirror out from his pouch, and pressed the
      "call-you-back-in-five-minutes" button.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Boy-Who-Lived?" Salazar asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar grabbed Severus' wrist, and Apparated to their room in
      an upscale muggle hotel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus quickly took care of his appearances, and steadied his
      breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Severus opened the double-sided mirror, Salazar stood in
      front of Severus where you couldn't see from the mirror holding in
      Severus' hand, getting ready to memory charm Severus in case he was
      pressed to utter some inconvenient truth in Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus silently thanked Salazar for not memory charming him
      directly, for he was so sick of being memory charmed all the
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus opened the mirror, and connected to the
      Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Snape, Mr. Lucius Malfoy is being transported back to
      Britain to provide evidence on the crimes committed by other Death
      Eaters at 3 pm, London Time. It should be 5 pm in Kiev Time," Harry
      Potter said. "Can you come back to join us in my office then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was silently amazed by the ex-Lord Malfoy's efficiency,
      and nodded. "I will be back on time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus closed the mirror and sighed as he accepted his fate of
      being memory charmed again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">2:54 pm, July 16th, 1993 (London Time)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Severus exited from the green flames, he received a warm
      welcome from Mad-Eye in the form of a number of jail-time-enabling
      charms. As Severus refrained from throwing deadly hexes toward
      Mad-Eye, and only used his Protego Vitamaxima, he snapped,
      "Mad-Eye, if there is ever some sort of official entitlement that
      proclaims that you can check on everyone, instead of others
      throwing all these hexes on you, please do enlighten me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha, speaking more and more like a Malfoy." Mad-Eye's magical
      eye jumped like crazy, and he spat, "Obtaining some important
      message from Grindelwald within twenty-four hours of imprisonment,
      am I to believe that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus refuted with a smug smile, "Mad-Eye, I know it is hard
      for you to absorb the harsh reality that, with Lucius' help, I have
      bribed out more useful information in one day than you did in one
      year. As the saying goes, you can't teach an old dog-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Severus could finish his sentence, the Boy-Who-Lived
      interjected: "Professor Snape, Mr. Moody, could you please check on
      each other's identity, and make sure that neither of you is under
      any sort of mind-controlling magic? I mean, you use the same spell
      on each other, one spell by another, no more, no less."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both Severus and Mad-Eye growled, and followed the
      Boy-Who-Lived's instructions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Mad-Eye was finally done with Severus, and claimed that
      there were several spells that he hadn't used on the Malfoy brat
      yet, the fireplace lit up again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Bones and the handcuffed Lucius stepped out of the
      flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Mad-Eye was busy probing Lucius with all sorts of spells
      and magical devices, the blond man provided more things for Mad-Eye
      to check on: "Good afternoon, Lord Potter, Lady Granger, Severus,
      and Draco, my dearest son. When I visited Gellert Grindelwald this
      morning, he had provided me with proper wizarding garments to
      replace the ugly uniform provided by Nurmengard. Though I have not
      found any hidden message on the garments, I have worn them back
      here for all of you to check on. And Mr. Moody, although you might
      have the unfortunate instinct to just burn everything, I do need to
      remind you that Grindelwald is perhaps expecting me to wear
      something proper when I see him next time. They are all in the
      pouch Madam Bones brought here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grindelwald's expectation, you say?" Mad-Eye jabbed a funny
      looking stick into Lucius's chest so hard that the blond winced,
      "Fantastic speed at finding a new lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can speak Parseltongue, so my loyalty is verifiable." Lucius
      sneered. "On the other hand, what evidence can you provide to prove
      your loyalty? How am I to know that <em class="calibre8">you</em> are not working
      for Grindelwald or anyone else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Observing the fire-seething Mad-Eye, Severus suddenly felt their
      petty squabbles were quite pathetic. <em class="calibre8">If any of us here wields
      real power, none of this would ever happen.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With renewed determination to become all-powerful, the
      black-haired man rolled his eyes, and started to apply privacy and
      security charms around them, for he knew Mad-Eye wouldn't even let
      him sneeze in the general direction of the garments provided by
      Grindelwald before he had tested them, so for the sake of
      efficiency, Severus didn't try.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the old Auror finally ran out of his tricks, and nothing
      abnormal was found, the real conference began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With the memory Lucius provided, and the large Pensieve brought
      here by Madam Bones, they took turns and watched the entire meeting
      between Lucius and Grindelwald.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus watched as the Boy-Who-Lived and the Girl-Who-Revived
      put their heads into the Pensieve first, and tried to read Lucius'
      face. Unfortunately, the most useful expression on blond man's face
      was only his bitter-sweet smiles towards his son.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A while later, the Boy-Who-Lived raised his head from the
      Pensieve, and frowned. "Mr. Malfoy, you presented yourself as -
      err, I guess we can discuss that part later. More importantly,
      Grindelwald indeed considers Britain as his own playground; this is
      both good news and bad news. And now, he might think that we have
      means to communicate with Dumbledore, which can be good, in a
      while. And the last part... Err, Mr. Malfoy, did you take a look at
      the contents?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I have also provided that memory to Madam Bones." The
      blond man answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Girl-Who-Revived was also frowning, and Severus could see a
      sense of unease on her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus wondered what the latter memory would be, and put his
      head down into the Pensieve together with his godson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' memory started when he was escorted into Grindelwald's
      cell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus gazed around in Grindelwald's cell, and was silently
      amazed by the level of privilege the former dark lord enjoyed in
      Nurmengard: <em class="calibre8">The lords and ladies in America and the comrades in
      Russia do value Grindelwald's mind a lot. Hmm, I heard the American
      and Russian Muggles did something similar to Nazi Muggle scientists
      as well. I need to go back at the Muggle newspaper I read before -
      if my memory is correct, the Nazi scientists were not even
      imprisoned. Should I congratulate ourselves for having higher moral
      standards than the Muggles?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, there was something else that caught Severus' eyes as
      well: Draco flinched a bit upon seeing his Father in handcuffs and
      in ugly prison uniform.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sighed inwardly: <em class="calibre8">The boy will get used to it. As for
      the pain he is suffering, well, I am hardly someone to give advice
      on that subject…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus and Draco followed Lucius into Grindelwald's
      comfortable guest room, Severus patted on Draco's shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond boy smiled bitterly, "I just hope Father can have
      something similar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus supposed it was highly unlikely that Lucius would become
      someone as powerful as Grindelwald, and Potter would hardly have
      the impetus to reward an ex-Death Eater with such luxuries. The
      black-haired man stated matter-of-factly, "Then either you or I
      need to be a powerful lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco avoided his eyes from Lucius as the man changed his
      clothes. The boy bit his lips, and nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Lucius exited the guest room, Severus and Draco followed
      him back to Grindelwald's living room, and observed the
      conversation between Grindelwald and Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Lucius established himself as some sort of special envoy from
      Great Britain to Nurmengard, Severus almost congratulated Lucius on
      his achievement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, this is why Lucius doesn't need to approach Grindelwald
      during the out-of-cell time slots, and gets there so fast. Once
      others consider him as such, the Americans would probably arrange
      things for him. And by coming back to Great Britain so fast, Lucius
      is confirming his role in front of every pair of interested eyes.
      What a sly snake!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Grindelwald guessed that the so-called sacrificial ritual
      was actually an Unbreakable Vow from the little information he had,
      Severus' eyes almost bulged out: <em class="calibre8">In the name of Atlantis, how
      did</em> <em class="calibre8">he managed that? Is this the level of intuition
      required to become a powerful lord?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus and Draco changed uneasy glances, as neither of them
      knew how to outsmart this very intelligent dark lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Severus saw Lord Grindelwald had entered some sort of deep
      thinking mode. Severus felt that he had seen this sort of thing -
      somewhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Don't tell me Grindelwald worked out a plausible ritual to
      explain everything from an Unbreakable Vow! This is…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus then had a feeling that he had recently been working on
      something quite similar to an Unbreakable Vow - which was…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus hated it when his memory became blurry, but a quick
      glance at Draco told him what he had worked on for more than a
      week: house-elves, and the rules governing them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' mind was so intent on this matter that he missed what
      Lucius indicated later, and how Grindelwald dismissed Lucius with a
      standard welcome package.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Severus pulled his head out from the Pensieve, he heard the
      Potter boy said in bewilderment: "You can't swear that you know
      other's password, can you? I mean, how could an Unbreakable Vow
      possibly explain things in Grindelwald's head?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye scoffed, "I've known idiots who took Unbreakable Vows,
      stating that they would do something they didn't possess the
      capability to do, and they just died from the Vow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I know it wouldn't be that easy to cheat." The
      Boy-Who-Lived said. "Mr. Moody, you can enter the Pensieve now, and
      see what you can find."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While they were enjoying the absence of the roaring old Auror
      who wasn't sharp in powerful wizardry anyway, Severus said, "Mr.
      Potter, I guess Unbreakable Vows do bear resemblance to what you
      instructed me to work on for more than a week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean -" The Boy-Who-Lived was clearly sharp enough on this
      matter. "Oh, yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Girl-Who-Revived, and - to Severus's delight - his godson,
      also showed apprehension.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed like Harry Potter wanted to say something, but he
      closed his mouth, and gave Granger a look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From Potter's reactions, Severus knew there had to be something
      there, along the lines of imposing a rule on oneself, and that onto
      other magical creatures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Or even onto the world, such as the Interdict of Merlin.
      Hmm, I wonder what Merlin sacrificed when he made that
      Interdict.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Severus was working on how to make an Interdict stand, an
      unpleasant interruption named Mad-Eye exited the Pensieve, roaring
      that Lucius was by no means an envoy, and began to list out reasons
      why this might be a plot by either Lucius or Grindelwald to end the
      world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus rubbed his temples, "Mad-Eye, can we take a look at
      Grindelwald's welcome package first?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're still a blood purist as the day you joint the Death
      Eaters, aren't you?" Mad-Eye sneered. "Admiring the Malfoys for
      their blood, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus then remembered Grindelwald might have mentioned
      something such as "blood purity". To hide his forgetfulness,
      Severus rolled his eyes, "We do need to look at it, in case he left
      some message there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Err, can Hermione and I take a look at what's in there first?"
      The Boy-Who-Lived asked, "And then we will decide who's the proper
      audience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded, while searching Lucius' face. To Severus' slight
      surprise, Lucius gave him a bitter smile in response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Lucius doesn't seem to be too happy about the welcome
      package. Why is that? And since Grindelwald called it "standard
      welcome package", I should be able to find it elsewhere as well. If
      the Ministry of Magic in Ukraine runs similarly as our respected
      Ministry, I can probably figure something out from there.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Potter and Granger stood up from the Pensieve, both of them
      held a blank face. However, the Girl-Who-Revived, who wasn't as
      good as hiding her emotions as the Boy-Who-Lived, had a sense of
      shock and disgust in her. Severus supposed, they probably saw some
      results from certain inhuman experiments, and they probably didn't
      like the conclusion much, either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And the boy might be up to something as well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus remembered the infamous Nazi mating experiments, and
      guessed that it might be something of such nature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">I wonder what the result is, that neither Lucius nor the
      Boy-Who-Lived likes it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus asked, "Should any of us take a look at it, Mr.
      Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy-Who-Lived's face twitched in pain as he slowly said,
      "Professor Snape, you alone can see it. And, would you gather
      information on whether some of the parts have been applied and/or
      improved in other places of the world? You would know what I am
      referring to when you see it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus gave the Potter boy a strange look, nodded, entered the
      Pensieve, and left unpleasant sounds from Mad-Eye behind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, Lucius was in his small single cell, laying down one
      piece of paper by another on the floor. Lucius was clearly
      preparing the memory to be watched by others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">What a considerate snake!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus commented silently, and bent over to see the contents of
      the welcome package. He was instantaneously absorbed by the
      contents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The title of the welcome package was <em class="calibre8">Eugenics for the
      Benefits of Wizarding Society</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus had heard the word "eugenics" used alongside with the
      words such as "sterilization", "witch", and "freak", by none other
      than his own abusive Muggle father Tobias Snape in several of the
      many arguments he had with Eileen Snape. Severus supposed,
      "eugenics" might mean that people with certain inheritable traits
      shouldn't reproduce, or something of sorts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first chapter of the package discussed the magical
      inheritance of various types of couples.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It stated that more than 98% of children pureblood (defined as
      anyone with all wizarding ancestors for at least four generations)
      couples were magical. As for the pureblood witches who gave births
      to squib children, with the approval from their husbands who were
      probably eager to wash the stain of squib kids from themselves, or
      who had already suspected something, interrogators had subjected
      the witches to Veritaserum and Legilimens. About 50% percent of
      these witches or their ancestors were found guilty for crimes such
      as "contamination of the magical blood", and "forgery of superior
      blood status". Grindelwald had personally examined some of the
      pureblood witches and their living parents and grandparents who
      were cleared from all charges, and also of that of their husbands',
      and he had to admit that for all children born to pureblood couples
      with impeccable records, about 1% of them might be squibs. Severus
      thought, the numbers basically fitted the numbers from the
      pureblood families he knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, it examined the probability of wizarding children born by
      Muggleborn couples. With the potential infidelity problem removed,
      about 92% of the kids were magical, 7% were squibs, and 1% were
      Muggles. These numbers also made sense to Severus - Lucius and
      other blood purists were not complete idiots, and they actually had
      some numbers and examples to support their belief. And judging from
      here, with Severus' limited knowledge on Muggle genetics, the
      Boy-Who-Lived's previous idea on magical inheritance could safely
      go down the drainage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Things got really interesting as pureblood-Muggle couples were
      examined. It showed that only 7% of the children with pureblood
      wizarding fathers and Muggle mothers were magical, while about 35%
      of the kids born to pureblood witches and Muggle fathers were
      magical. According to the little Muggle genetics Severus knew, this
      indicated that the magical inheritance was partially linked to the
      sex chromosome - somewhat similar to that of hemophilia. However,
      registration records showed that kids conceived out of wedlock in
      wizarding father-Muggle mother pairs had a much lower probability
      to be magical (~5%) than the ones born in wedlock (~15%); while in
      the case of witch mother-Muggle father pairs, the differences were
      much smaller. These statistics initially led Grindelwald's
      researchers to doubt whether marriage had some magical impact on
      magical inheritance, yet further examination showed that children
      conceived and born in magical environment had a much higher
      probability to be magical than those in Muggle environments. In the
      case for witch mother-Muggle father, if the witches were in strong
      magical environments - such as in whole-wizarding villages or in
      old magical houses - the whole time, the probability of giving
      births to magical children could go up to about 50%, yet if the
      witches chose to follow their Muggle partners into non-magical
      environments, the chances went down to about 30%. Then, the
      differences in numbers between males and females made a lot of
      senses, for the bodies of witches were obviously a much more
      magical environment than the mere close presence of wizards.
      Severus guessed, that he - and on a second thought, the Dark Lord -
      were among the lucky 30%.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the case of squib couples, the statistics also showed that
      the environment that the children were conceived and born could
      have a significant effect on the probability of wizarding children.
      For squibs living in magical environments, the chances were about
      22% - fitting the Boy-Who-Lived's data quite well, yet for those
      living in non-magical neighbourhoods, the probability dropped to
      only 8%.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for other types of couples, such as halfblood,
      half-blood-squib and pureblood-squib couples, the numbers could all
      be explained by the combination of blood purity and
      environment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the numbers in the first chapter, it seemed that blood
      purists had their points. However, the second chapter showed that
      blood purity also came with some huge disadvantages: the decrease
      in fertility rates, and the increased probabilities for deformity,
      insanity, and homosexuality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The number showed that in the era when an average Muggle female
      gave births to seven and more kids during their lifetime, squib
      couples had 3.1 kids, halfblood couples had 2.1 children, while the
      average number of children for pureblood couples was only 1.4.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for insanity and deformity, Severus guessed he needed little
      data from Grindelwald to confirm that: Mad-Eye Moody was obviously
      paranoid, Grindelwald was cruel, the Blacks and Gaunts were
      well-known for their fervent pursuit of blood purity and their
      madness, the Potters were near-sighted, and the Crabbes and Goyles
      were obese. As for the Malfoys, unless you called their white blond
      hair a deformity, they were a lucky lot, except that they usually
      only had one male heir for the past one thousand year. However,
      Severus did hear that the Malfoys had secretly married halfblood
      witches, and altered the records.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moreover, Severus did doubt that whether it was too much of a
      coincidence that both Dumbledore and Grindelwald were gay. The
      Grindelwalds were a well-known pureblood family; as for Albus,
      Severus didn't know much about Albus' mother, but the Dumbledores
      were an old wizarding family living in Godric's Hollow for hundreds
      of years. Also, for a long time, Severus had doubted whether Sirius
      Black and Peter Pettigrew were sleeping together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the statistics, it didn't take a genius to predict that
      without the constant introduction of Muggle blood into the
      wizarding world, wizards and witches would die out due to
      infertility, madness, and deformity sooner or later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As a matter of fact, these data also explained why the
      percentage of wizards were always limited even in societies that
      considered wizarding folks as their leaders. And even for the
      magical creatures that could interbreed with their non-magical
      counterparts, the magical ones were never dominant in their
      numbers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The following chapters discussed Grindelwald's solutions to the
      problems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of them was to encourage his men to marry pureblood witches,
      and to have casual relationships with squib and Muggle females in
      magical environments. The pregnant squib or Muggle women were then
      taken care of by some special program. Magical children born in
      this way were registered as half-bloods, and adopted by the many
      infertile magical couples; as for the squib kids born in this
      manner, they were handed to Grindelwald's Muggle allies'
      specialized camps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another approach employed by Grindelwald was to experiment
      various methods to increase the fertility rates in pureblood
      couples, and to increase the probability of magical births. Some
      methods were quite useful and harmless - Severus had recognized the
      recipe of a potion treating male infertility, a very similar one of
      which was supposedly invented by one of the American Lords in the
      1950s. They also had some early experiments of cauldron babies, way
      earlier than the Muggles invented test tube babies. Some were much
      more sinister, such as a ritual that ensured the pregnant squibs
      and Muggles would give births of magical children. From the
      horrific death rates during the ritual, Severus guessed that the
      primary function of this ritual was to kill anyone who was not
      pregnant with a magical child.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus supposed, this was what the Boy-Who-Lived had referred
      to as "some of the parts have been applied and/or improved". Harry
      Potter probably wanted everyone to be magical in the future, yet it
      would be impossible unless there was some breakthrough in the
      magical fertility problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sighed, and pulled his head out of the Pensieve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus was standing up, he sized the situation of the world
      outside the Pensieve. It seemed that Mad-Eye had kept speculating
      Grindelwald's evil plots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I said before, nobody should ever take the damn 'standard
      welcome package'. Albus never did!" The old Auror roared, "I've
      heard about what's in it: how to kill every female who isn't
      pregnant with a magical child and stuff. Suits your appetite,
      doesn't it, Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius rolled his eyes, "Grindelwald and his followers are all
      cruel - we all agree on that. Can we move on to something useful?
      Such as, how we should respond to Grindelwald, if we still want to
      continue our pretenses that we can establish some type of
      communications with Dumbledore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye spat, "You pretended, not 'we'!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy-Who-Lived took this chance to eye Severus, and Severus
      responded with a quick nod. Before Mad-Eye could issue more
      protests, the Potter boy said, "What Mr. Malfoy did is fine for the
      time being. However, we do need a long term solution, or something
      that could work for at least the next five years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the "five years" remark, Severus estimated that Harry
      Potter planned to become all-powerful by the age of eighteen, when
      regular students graduated from Hogwarts, and when Muggles were
      considered adults.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus didn't know anyone who had gained that level of power
      that young. The Dark Lord was an exceptional wizard who perhaps
      gained much ancient knowledge somewhere, yet his magic only reached
      that level perhaps in his late thirties or early forties. According
      to what Mad-Eye digged up for the story "Quirrell" told in class,
      soon after the Muggle martial arts school where "David Monroe" had
      learned much from was slaughtered in 1958, a really powerful
      Japanese lord named Fujimoto had chased down a relatively powerful
      dark lord, and almost killed him. The dark wizard only escaped with
      the sudden increase of luck. Considering the fact that Lord
      Fujimoto died a mysterious death nine years later, Severus assumed
      that the Dark Lord had failed in his first fight with Lord
      Fujimoto, and only gained the ability to assassinate the aged
      Japanese lord during these nine years. Although Severus didn't
      think he himself would be able to kill a powerful lord when he
      turned forty, this story did mean even Tom Riddle's power needed
      time to develop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And the Boy-Who-Lived wants to become all-powerful at the
      age of eighteen! I'd say Draco is more powerful than an averaged
      fourth year student, while Potter and Granger might be somewhere
      near the level of an average fifth year student. Potter is quite
      exceptional for his age, - but to match the power level of Albus
      within five years, how is that even possible?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the rituals the Dark Lord used to make Granger hard to
      kill, Severus gathered that it wasn't too hard to gain physical
      strength and agility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Can this also be used to gain magic? Can you sacrifice a
      dragon and gain its magic? Or even, can you sacrifice powerful
      wizarding lords and ladies and gain the magic from that?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Nah, even if it is possible, it would be against Potter's
      ethics to kill people for their magic. But dragons are probably OK
      to be sacrificed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">However, we don't know if sacrificing dragons have some
      unwelcomed side effects. Besides, though dragons are more powerful
      than most ordinary folks including myself, they are not as powerful
      as Albus or the Dark Lord.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">If Potter wants the magical power of dragons, why five
      years? I suppose Mad-Eye and I can work out the details on how to
      sacrifice a dragon within a week or so.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus was deep in his own thought, others already had
      several rounds of discussions on how to stall the rest of the world
      - plus Voldemort - from organizing an instant attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius said, "Just as Lord Potter said, if Riddle hasn't figured
      out how he failed last time, he probably wouldn't be too eager to
      be the first serious attacker. However, what would happen if Riddle
      instigate other powerful wizards and witches in the world, and let
      them rob the Stone first, and then he will rob it from others
      later? With Riddle doing the persuasion, I am sure that some really
      powerful lords and ladies would try."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy who resembled Albus so much closed his eyes for a while,
      and then said, "Mr. Malfoy, this scenario is a logical response for
      - for some other dark wizards, and we do need to keep an eye on
      this possibility. However, for Tom Riddle, he might prefer a solo
      play." Harry Potter swallowed hard. "He might try to gain more
      power, either by learning Muggle science, or by -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy-Who-Lived glanced at Lucius, and then at Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Severus understood. Judging from Lucius' expressions, the
      blond man also understood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked at his ashen faced Father, and then at his black
      faced Godfather. The blond boy drew in a breath, and his body
      tensed up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye's no-longer-scarred face turned a shade whiter, and he
      snarled, "Damn it! I need to check on every single soul in
      Nurmengard!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius responded almost automatically, though his tone lost his
      usual sarcasm. "Be careful, some of them might be American or
      Russian spies. Don't cause a world war with your normal
      methods."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus pondered, and then said: "And I will look for similar
      signs in former Soviet states - I suppose, both in the Muggle world
      and the magical one. I heard there was an exodus of Muggle
      scientists since the Soviet Union collapsed, maybe I should look
      for recently disappeared distinguished Muggle scientists."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy-Who-Lived nodded gravely. "Mr. Malfoy, could you tell
      Grindelwald that, according to the holder of Line of Merlin
      Unbroken's understanding of Tom Riddle, the reappeared Riddle might
      approach him for his biggest secret? And, err, the holder of Line
      of Merlin Unbroken has found the welcome package - no, the
      existence of the welcome package - morally unacceptable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Mad-Eye, Bones, Potter, Granger, Lucius, and Severus, who
      had known Albus Dumbledore from various perspectives, discussed the
      wording of the message, and how to make it more Albus-ish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By six o'clock, they had agreed on the message to be delivered
      to Grindelwald and the rest of the world, and it was time for
      Lucius to be time-turned and to give testimony in the DMLE. Before
      the man was taken way, he looked at the Boy-Who-Lived and the
      Girl-Who-Revived imploringly: "Lord Potter, Lady Granger, can I
      spend some private time with my friend and family?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter's mask cracked a bit as he glanced Draco, and
      Hermione Granger seemed a bit uneasy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew what Lucius was playing at - even if Severus
      didn't, Mad-Eye had already called it out. "You manipulative snake
      deserves every part of this! Don't think that you can play the pity
      card-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy-Who-Lived interjected, "Mr. Malfoy, you can have an
      hour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After some promises in Parseltongue from both Lucius and
      Severus, Potter, Granger, Bones, and Mad-Eye (reluctantly, and with
      quite a few nudges from the Boy-Who-Lived) left the circle of
      privacy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they were waiting for Narcissa, Severus began to check what
      interesting spells and magical items Mad-Eye had left in this
      circle. The black-haired man wanted to keep himself busy, for he
      didn't want to consider the possibility that this might be the last
      time he saw Malfoy Sr. - unless he made some real breakthroughs in
      reviving people without their heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew that he was being manipulated by Lucius, but, by
      the time Narcissa came, he still couldn't help himself and
      promised: "Draco, Narcissa, don't worry too much. If anything
      happens, I will figure out a way to bring Lucius back, no matter
      what. <em class="calibre8">I sspoke truth</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three Malfoys all looked at Severus with great gratitude.
      Lucius walked up to Severus and gave him a hug. "My dearest
      Severus, my brother and my friend, you be careful yourself. If
      anything happens, well, you might have to wait for a while, but I
      shall bring you back as well. <em class="calibre8">I sspoke truth</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Godfather, me too</em>." The younger blond also
      promised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew Lucius was a bastard - Draco might be a better
      person, but still a little bastard. However, the black-haired man
      still felt the empty hole in him ever since Albus' disappearance
      was being filled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, damn Malfoys!</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
