<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Don't Think of a Strangelet - Don't Think of a Strangelet, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Don't Think of a Strangelet"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't let it happen</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been a long time since he had thought of anything else.
      Wake up, look longingly at wand, head downstairs, get food.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Visualize the particles, the charge, the space. Fill it
      up.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hadn't picked up his wand in a long time. It had started off
      when he'd found himself wanting to go through with that attempt,
      and he'd put it down. And then he found he had to put it down. And
      then found himself thinking of it all the time, so he spent more
      time with his wand down than up. And the more he put it down, the
      harder it was to pick it up without thinking of why he'd put it
      down in the first place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was starting to become a real problem</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't clear whether Harry Potter had said it, or one of his
      friends, or where exactly his mind had wrapped itself around the
      Concept that was messing with his life. It wasn't even a bad thing,
      really - not a fundamental transfiguration issue, nothing that
      McGonagall would have warned against.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a bit like transfiguring a gas, which would be bad, but
      he'd started out thinking of it as a simple, solid cube. That's
      where the problem was. If he could make himself not think of it
      that way – if he could think of the problem as a non-solid
      cube…well, you weren't supposed to transfigure gases, or liquids.
      He was almost to the point of overlooking that, since the problem
      wasn't one as long as the density was really low.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Cube. Lattice. Grid. Line. Electron. Electron.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the density was going to be low anyway, in an absolute
      sense. Getting over the prohibition against gas and liquid wasn't
      enough. It was still terribly, horribly dangerous, and <em class="calibre7">he
      couldn't stop thinking about it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Electron, electron, electron.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The idea hadn't exactly come from Harry Potter – maybe it
      wouldn't have been as much of a problem if it had. He had found
      himself trying to think in that way, though, and when he – or was
      it Hermione, could be, she was Muggleborn too, after all, had been
      through a couple of years of science in school, knew about
      subatomic particles – anyway, someone had mentioned quarks and
      electrons and the idea had come into his head. And it was stuck
      there, and it meant that every day for a month he had left his wand
      where it was, afraid even to pick it up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was good reason to be afraid of the idea. He had had those
      same lessons on science, and watched a few programs on the telly,
      and knew enough to check when the idea came to mind. If he had been
      wizardborn, perhaps there would have been a more solid block in his
      mind against trying novel forms of transfiguration, even ones not
      technically forbidden. Like this was not. A little knowledge is a
      dangerous thing, he knew that now too, too well. This little bit of
      knowledge wouldn't get out of his head, wouldn't let him pick up
      his wand, barely let him sleep. It had been bad enough when he was
      worried that it might manifest as accidental magic – he still was
      frightened of that, sometimes – but now he had trouble sleeping
      because of the other Muggleborns who might think of this same
      thing, any moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Electron, electron, electronelectronelectronelectron…)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was like this huge, supernova-sized nuclear weapon that you
      could bring into existence with your mind. The only barrier between
      it existing and non-existing was the limited interaction between
      the wizard and muggle world. Only muggles knew about sub-atomic
      particles, only wizards knew about transfiguration, only someone
      who knew about both could do anything dangerous with that
      knowledge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which list of someones, unfortunately, at this instant, included
      himself .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he often did at this point in the day, he considered the
      possibility of being obliviated. Forget about the nova bomb, forget
      about the sleepless nights, forget about forgetting about it. The
      problem there was trying to tell the obliviator what memory to
      remove. If he said it to someone else, at best he would have spread
      the infection, probably to someone who was less equipped to handle
      it. At worst, he'd just doubled the number of people who could
      obliterate an important section of the Milky Way galaxy. It wasn't
      an option, it clearly wasn't an option. There had to be another way
      to deal with this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(He was starting to need pills to get to sleep.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was just glad he'd checked into it a bit before trying
      anything, a thought that made him more scared every day than it
      should have, because it just meant that there might be someone out
      there who had had the Thought and could follow it to
      its…conclusion…any second. Maybe it wasn't as dangerous if you
      didn't really know what it meant. Not everyone has a death wish,
      but everyone knows what it is like to be attracted to destruction,
      to flames, to a long drop below your feet. If you didn't know how
      dangerous it was to attempt this transfiguration, well, it was
      pretty boring when it came down to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A cubic centimeter of electrons, big deal. Who would want to see
      that when you could make a brick of gold, or turn a beetle into a
      bird, or a house into an elephant?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was good that he had checked into it, first. That had
      required some obsessive behavior of its own, since it was a
      nonsensical question unless you knew what the goal was. "You can't
      jam that many electrons together," would be one answer. "How would
      you get as many as you are talking about into one place?" might be
      another. It became a matter of finding the right description, then
      finding the right person to understand the description, then
      finding the right person to investigate the question, and the right
      person who could do the hefty math involved. Which made it another
      reason why it wasn't going to be a big problem for people to watch
      out for, since the sequence of knowledgeable people stretched well
      out of the wizarding world. To be this dangerous, you had to be a
      problem who could imagine the concept, work with people on the
      correct way to assess it, understand it deeply enough to
      contemplate the method – and sociopathic enough to go through with
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(The wand is the closest thing, dragged in first, gone.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he'd started, he was sure that it wouldn't be a big
      problem, that it wasn't dangerous at all, that the concept was easy
      to grasp and what if he did? He knew the answer to that too, now.
      It was outlandish, even, what the final expert in his chain of
      experts had said. A friend of a relative of a friend, a physicist
      turned physics teacher, had been able to help with the obscure
      parts. Although the initial response, once the concept had been
      explained, was unexpected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're worried about the Ell Aitch See."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The what?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The LHC – the Large Hadron Collider. It's perfectly safe,
      nothing to worry about, can't possibly cause a strangelet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A what?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A strangelet, the physicist had said, that's what you're talking
      about, a particle that couldn't exist, shouldn't exist. Put
      together subatomic particles in non-standard ways, you could end up
      with one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the LHC can't do that. We're really very certain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That this was delivered with a very uncertain look hadn't been a
      concern, at least not by now. Even if it was theoretical, still, it
      was clear that there were known limits on what the Collider could
      do. Nobody really knew, though, the limits of magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(The wizard is next, although it's so fast that at any human
      scale it's simultaneous.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a transfiguration problem, like this, it came down to
      visualization, which made this whole ugly mess a problem of
      definition. The concept of "A cubic centimeter of electrons" had to
      be precisely defined, first, a bit beyond "as many as would fit in
      that space" He'd had to really imagine it, describe what he'd been
      thinking when the image was in his head – what would come pouring
      out of the end of his wand if he went into his transfiguration
      trance with this object in mind. It had started out as "tightly
      packed electrons" but even his basic knowledge wouldn't quite
      visualize that. He knew they resisted each other, that they
      couldn't get too close one to another. They were small, though, and
      the effective range of the charge – it wasn't that big, was it?
      Surely an electron on one end of the cube wouldn't affect one on
      the other end? Or even one right next to it, if you had them, say,
      an electron's width apart, or two, or ten – that's pretty big,
      right? That's a good space?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Eight minutes later, the sun is gone.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, evidently it wasn't. That mental image of an array of
      electrons, not tightly packed but not too far away from each other,
      was actually incredibly lethal. In a-nobody-really-knows-how-lethal
      kind of way. Because the magic folks didn't know the physics well
      enough to understand it, and the physics folks didn't understand
      the magic part well enough to predict it. So either it would
      destroy the wand (and stop) or kill the caster (and stop) or
      destroy the nearest square kilometer/county/continent, or only
      destroy the world, or only collapse the solar system.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it might, possibly, nobody could tell, but the former
      theoretical physicist with the poster of Aleister Crowley on the
      wall said, it <em class="calibre7">could</em> strip away every electron from every
      atom in the nearest four hundred light years. Turning that
      four-hundred-light-year sphere momentarily into a fizz of protons
      and neutrons, without the electrons to hold them together. Just to
      balance the universe out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just from picking up his wand and wanting to see a cubic
      centimeter of electrons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Wanting it. There was little enough else keeping such a
      transfiguration from happening, then. It would be a person who
      wanted, just for a moment, to see it. And that was it for England,
      and possibly Earth, and possibly more.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, magic was part of the physical universe, and even if life
      was rare, and even if magic users were rare, there had to be
      something keeping such an event from happening, because that sort
      of event was going to be noticeable in any galaxy in which it
      happened. That nobody had noticed it meant it was likely it hadn't
      happened, and if it hadn't happened then it was possible it
      couldn't happen, and if it couldn't happen he could probably pick
      up his wand right now without having to worry about a thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One could shrink the point of view down a bit, for that matter,
      and realize that magic -users were rare enough on Earth to make the
      same assessment. That is, there are no indications of people who
      suddenly blew themselves up with nothing but a wand, who weren't –
      no, it was no use, there WERE people who disappeared, blew
      themselves up, self-immolated – he'd checked on spontaneous human
      combustion stories at one point but it did nothing to settle his
      mind in any way – maybe they had tried it and only killed
      themselves, but maybe they hadn't thought of it as much as HE had,
      maybe he was going to be the first one lucky enough to get it all
      exactly right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Jupiter, soon after, pulled into the inconceivably dense object
      where the wand, the wizard, the earth used to be.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So only one choice, he'd realized, was keep the wand down. And
      now he couldn't bring himself to pick it up. And he had some
      thought that his mind would continue to go downhill, and at some
      point he would start thinking that the only way to ensure it
      wouldn't happen was to do it, to think through it, to show that it
      wasn't a problem. Because if he didn't, at some point he WOULD go
      mad, and then he'd try it without going through the sort of safety
      checks that he knew he had to do, just to have any hope in hell of
      surviving. If the logic of that didn't make a lot of sense, well,
      that thought, too, had plowed its way through his head while
      getting there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Was he already going mad? Had he already gone mad?)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At one point, finding out everything that might possibly go
      wrong had seemed like the safest idea. That wasn't clear any more,
      either. The idea that this was like a cliff or a tall building and
      that you were looking down not quite believing that the drop would
      kill you. Perhaps that desire to jump is the desire to bring your
      body and mind in balance, so that both of them believe that the
      drop is dangerous as it looks, or as safe as it seems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Soon enough, he knew, Proxima Centauri would be gone. Soon
      enough.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had to stop thinking about it. Had to. And soon.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
