<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 38: CC 5: How Could This Go Wrong?, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossove...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: How Could This Go Wrong?</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> Milo's character sheet for this
      year is <em class="calibre8">finally</em> finalized. Sorry for the short (and late)
      chapter; I've had wisdom teeth-related issues and also got
      distracted by another project. As such, this chapter and the next
      one will sort of blend together into one
      slightly-larger-than-normal chapter in a lot of ways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Today's Character Sheet:</strong> myth-weavers
      com/sheetview php?sheetid=586163</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why in the <em class="calibre8">Hells</em> is there a Half-Fiend Horse strapped
      to that carriage?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does it think it can fool us? Is it simply <em class="calibre8">pretending</em>
      to be a regular horse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it's trying to lure us in, and then... neigh at us.
      Evilly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Foolish evil extraplanar equine Erinyes-extraction! For I can
      see your true form! Fear my arcane mi—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," Ron interrupted, "Before you get all worked up and turn
      that carriage into a smoking crater, mate... what horse are we
      talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The one pulling the carriage," Milo said, gesturing at the
      bony, black, batwing-sporting horselike-creature. "I mean, just
      <em class="calibre8">look at it</em>. It has fangs, for gods' sakes! That thing is
      evil incarnate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah... about that," Harry said. "There's nothing there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except for the carriage, which, by the way, is horseless,"
      Hermione added helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo gave Harry, Ron, and Hermione a skeptical look that was
      only matched by the skeptical look that Harry, Ron, and Hermione
      were giving him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean you can't see it?" he said. They gave their murmured
      assents, still giving him the look people reserved for situations
      like these. "So, the question is: is it a phantasm, or is it
      selectively invisible?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A phantasm?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An illusion," Hermione responded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More specifically," Milo clarified, "An illusion that only
      certain individuals can perceive. There's only <em class="calibre8">one</em> way to
      find out..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gave a look of sudden, horrified clarity and whipped
      her face around to look Milo dead in the eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" she cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—<em class="calibre8">Glitterdust!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape paced around Dumbledore's office slowly, his face a
      careful mask. Only one who knew him very well would have been able
      to tell just how nervous he was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Calm down, Severus," Dumbledore said, though in truth, he
      didn't feel much better. "No situation is without answer. Once, you
      see, I was asked, given the choice, if I were to be stranded on a
      desert island with nothing more than a Caucasian leopard and a ball
      of cotton twine—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He will be expecting a reply, Albus," Snape said coolly. "In
      fact, he will already be questioning the reason for my delay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It appears, I am afraid, that we have little choice in the
      matter. You must brew him the potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Need I remind you that there is no surefire method to discover
      if someone is utilizing Polyjuice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps. However, in my experience, actors that exceptionally
      skilled are few and far between. And you are hardly the only person
      capable of this task that he can call upon. If you refuse, he will
      simply call upon another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But not one so skilled as I." He wasn't boasting; it was simply
      the truth. Snape was one of the best potion makers in the world;
      certainly the best in magical Britain. The duration of the effects
      of the Polyjuice potion increased with the skill of the maker. At
      maximum potency, he could brew a Polyjuice that lasted a little
      over twelve hours. He knew he was fighting a losing battle,
      however. He wasn't even sure <em class="calibre8">why</em> he was fighting it. What
      did he care about Lucius's plotting?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know as well as I that it would be a simple matter for an
      infiltrator to contrive an excuse to repeatedly drink some
      innocuous liquid—under the guise of medicine, perhaps, or a
      favourite tea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, Albus," Snape said. "I shall do as you ask—let us
      both hope that we do not regret it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed. Now, if you will excuse me, I have a Sorting Ceremony
      to attend t—" Dumbledore paused as he heard the characteristic
      grinding sound of stone-on-stone that signalled the arrival of a
      visitor. For all the inconvenience of having a secret,
      password-protected office, it <em class="calibre8">did</em> provide enough warning
      to fix one's hair and tuck in one's shirt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door slammed open, revealing a beleaguered Professor
      McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus," she gasped. "Come quickly!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's happened, Minerva?" Dumbledore said, leaping to his
      feet. "Have Death Eaters attacked? Is it another goblin uprising?
      Have the Cannons won a match?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she said. "It's much worse than that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Allow me to hazard a guess," Snape said. "Milo?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, it really could have been worse," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't see how," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Ron said, "at least the bloodshed was kept to a
      minimum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wreckage of dozens of carriages lay scattered across the
      path. One was on fire; Harry couldn't imagine <em class="calibre8">how</em> it had
      been lit on fire, but it had. A lone wheel rolled past him, down
      the shallow slope, and into the lake. A pair of colossal tentacles
      lashed out of the water, and seized it, never to be seen again.
      Hogwarts students, second-through seventh year, were standing
      around, shocked. Some were nursing minor injuries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Honestly</em>, Milo, I'd thought you'd have remembered what
      happened at the Potions Incident!" Hermione said testily. "Someone
      could have been killed! You could still be expelled!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we're missing the key point," Milo said defensively.
      "The <em class="calibre8">point</em> is that we all learned a valuable lesson,
      didn't we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should <em class="calibre8">hope</em> so," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's that when someone claims to see something that nobody else
      can, you <em class="calibre8">take them seriously</em>. There really <em class="calibre8">was</em> a
      Half-Fiend Horse." The <em class="calibre8">Glitterdust</em> had shown that; in
      addition to blinding its unfortunate victims, it also revealed
      invisible ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mate, there wasn't <em class="calibre8">anything</em> even <em class="calibre8">half</em>
      friendly about them," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Half-<em class="calibre8">Fiend</em>, not half-friend," Hermione clarified.
      "Honestly, they don't even <em class="calibre8">sound</em> similar. How could you
      possibly confuse the two?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shrugged. He opened his mouth to defend himself, but then
      saw something out of the corner of his eye. "Neville!" he
      gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo followed Ron's gaze to see Neville Longbottom trapped
      beneath the ruins of a carriage. He then broke into a sprint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you okay?" he gasped. He could just see Neville's round
      face sticking out from underneath the shattered wreckage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I'm fine," he said. "It's not as bad as it looks. I'm just
      a little... stuck. Anyone know what caused the thestrals to
      bolt?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm..." Milo said awkwardly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thestrals?" Hermione asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, the things that pull the carriage. You know, the winged
      horses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Hah</em>!" Milo said, pumping his fist into the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, I don't mean to be a bother, but could one of you get this
      carriage off of me before my ribs finally cave?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Levitate</em>," Milo cast, and the carriage gently floated
      up and off of Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Mister Amestacia-Liadon</em>!" The voice was out of Milo's
      second- or third-worst nightmares. It was the kind of voice that
      could cut across <em class="calibre8">any</em> noise—from unruly fifth-graders to
      the din of battle—and still be perfectly audible. It was the kind
      of voice that registered less as sound in your ears and more as a
      chill in your spine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the voice of Professor McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And she was angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Explain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo hesitated for a moment while he considered whether or not
      to use Bluff, before dismissing it as foolhardy. If anyone had
      whatever the local equivalent of ranks in Sense Motive was, it
      would be McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was surprised by what appeared to be a demon horse, ma'am.
      However, due to reasons unknown, it was invisible to all other
      observers—except Neville. I targeted it with a non-damaging spell
      that marks invisible creatures to others in order that one of my
      comrades may be able to identify it and respond accordingly."
      Nothing but the truth. "The creature—which I am now told is a
      thestral—responded aggressively, as did a few others, as you can
      see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall sighed. "Why me? Why is it <em class="calibre8">always</em>me? Ten
      points from Gryffindor. Next time, find a professor before you leap
      to conclusions. These animals have been carrying students from the
      train station to the castle for three centuries without incident.
      Now, however, it appears we will have to begin counting anew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione coughed politely. "Erm, excuse me Professor—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, what is it, Ms. Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, seeing as how the sorting hasn't happened, and as such,
      term hasn't actually <em class="calibre8">started</em>... well, you can't actually
      take—or give—house points yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha. Good point. No points off, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brilliant!" Ron said, clapping Milo on the back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'll be letting Hagrid oversee your detention, seeing as
      how it was his thestrals you disturbed, and his carriages you
      destroyed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, well, better luck next time, then," Ron said
      consolingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall turned to the crowd of students, many of whom were
      still filing off the train, staring at the disaster scene in
      confusion. "I'm sorry to say that due to... technical difficulties,
      you will all have to proceed to the castle on foot. Prefects,
      please gather the students of your house, then follow me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed and went to find Percy, wondering what torment
      Hagrid would have in store for him. He'd only had occasional
      contact with the groundskeeper, though, as he was a friend of
      Harry's, maybe he'd go easy on Milo. That said, Milo shuddered as
      he remembered his <em class="calibre8">last</em> detention with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He found Percy in short order. Ron's older brother had a knack
      for organization, and without even knowing it, the Gryffindors
      found themselves marching in order of year and height while the
      Hufflepuffs were still mucking about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only while slogging through the deep mud and constant
      drizzle up the path to the castle that Milo realized how
      uncomfortable it was to have wet feet. Somehow, despite having
      lived in Scotland for the better part of a year (not to mention the
      exotic locales adventuring had led him to back home), he'd never
      really noticed it. It was one of the more unpleasant feelings he'd
      yet faced, and he'd once been swallowed whole by a Tendriculos.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Prestidigitation</em>," he muttered, cleaning and drying
      his socks. He briefly calculated the cost of creating magical socks
      that kept themselves dry, before discarding it as exorbitant.
      <em class="calibre8">In any case, the local wizards probably have some for sale.
      They're much bigger on creature comforts than ours.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, they made their way to the gates. With one look at
      the faces of the students—and McGonagall—not even the gargoyles
      that guarded the doors caused any problems. By the time that they
      finally reached the warmth and comfort of the Great Hall, nearly
      everyone was soaked, shivering, and sniffling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suffice to say that the first years, who had already been
      enjoying the roaring fire and pumpkin juice, were <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      popular among the older students just then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo considered himself lucky that only a very, <em class="calibre8">very</em>
      small number of them knew that he was held responsible—though
      personally, he felt that it was wildly irresponsible of the school
      to use demonic monstrosities as a means of transport without giving
      fair warning first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Nev," Milo said as they sat down at the Gryffindor table.
      "How come only we could see them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um..." Neville said slowly. "You have to, um, have seen
      death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, like, Nerull? No, wait, you lot call him the Reaper.
      Pretty sure I'd know if I saw him. Unless he was in disguise;
      Nerull has, like, 29 Charisma and ten levels in Rogue... now
      <em class="calibre8">there's</em> a thought to keep a person up at night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, as in, you have to <em class="calibre8">see</em> something die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Milo blinked. "Hey, everyone," he said. Harry, Hermione,
      Ron, and a few other startled Gryffindor NPCs turned to look at
      him. Milo reached out and slammed his mug down on a passing ant.
      "You should all thank me. You can see thestrals now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an awkward silence before conversation resumed, and
      everyone collectively adopted their default 'Respond-To-Milo'
      protocol; that is, they pretended neither to have seen nor heard
      him. Milo tended to get that a lot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think that's how it works," Neville said. "Pretty sure
      it has to be, you know, a <em class="calibre8">person</em>." He hesitated for a
      moment. "I'm sorry. About whoever it was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm? Oh, don't even worry about it." As an adventurer, Milo had
      seen dozens of bandits, scores of orcs, and kobolds beyond number
      meet violent ends. "I guess that'd be proof that You-Know-Who's
      still around, if we still needed it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well, if he really died when he tried to kill Harry as a
      baby, then Harry would be able to see thestrals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about his, you know..." Neville's voice dropped into a
      whisper, "...his parents?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they didn't necessarily die in line-of-sight of him,"
      Milo responded in a whisper, following Neville's lead. "Could have
      been in a different room altogether, or he could have been looking
      the other way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville thought for a moment. "Then he might not have been
      looking at You-Know-Who either. Maybe he was, I dunno, held up by
      the scruff of his neck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair point." Despite Neville's reasoning, Milo felt pretty sure
      that Voldemort would want to stare into the eyes of his prophesised
      foe. It was the sort of thing Thamior the Repulsively Repugnant
      Reprobate would do. Milo found himself wistfully missing his days
      fighting against the evil Wizard; while dangerous, at least he was
      straightforward. This world seemed to be full of twists and turns
      and red herrings and unexpected reveals...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The doors to the Great Hall slammed open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo whipped his head around to see what would, no doubt, be,
      finally, some clue as to what to expect in this adventure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart entered, somehow managing to, despite being
      soaked and covered in mud, look merely roguishly dishevelled. He
      was followed by Hagrid, who looked anything but.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So sorry," Lockhart said, flashing them all a perfect smile, "I
      was delayed slightly showing old Hagrid here a few tricks for
      rounding up thestrals—not that he needed it, of course. Don't be
      getting the idea that, simply because I once taught a Dementor the
      true meaning of Christmas, I'm in any way better than your stout
      groundskeeper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid's typically-cheerful face resembled a stepped-on cat, but
      he kept his mouth shut. It took obvious effort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you Githyanki Lawnart would be our new DADA teacher,"
      Milo said, feeling very smug. It was about time he was right about
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I thought it was obvious from the reading list," said one
      of the Weasley twins, overhearing him in a lull in
      conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I said, George, but this lot—" Milo nodded to Harry
      and the others, "—said I was being paranoid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fred, actually. And what does Lockhart have to do with being
      paranoid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing..." Milo drifted off as he was struck by an idea.
      <em class="calibre8">Everyone</em> was in the Great Hall. "Cover for me, George.
      <em class="calibre8">Invisibility</em>." Milo always found it disconcerting seeing
      his hands vanish. Odd, now that he thought about it, that he could
      still close his eyes to prevent himself from seeing...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Fred!" he protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo slipped out, deciding to take advantage of having complete
      run of the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip:</strong> You know how Elmer Fudd feels when
      he's chasing Bugs off a cliff and keeps running for awhile until
      Bugs hands him a book explaining gravity and he falls? Turns out
      that's how D&amp;D works, too. Check this out:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Monks are not actually proficient with unarmed
      strike</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now that you know, you can't unlearn it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Happy gaming!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
