<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 47: CC 14: Cacophony in C Sharp, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover f...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: Cacophony in C Sharp</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hogwarts has always been a notoriously difficult structure to
      get around in. Rooms sometimes shuffle about when nobody is looking
      too closely, corridors appear and disappear based off of the phases
      of the moon, the day of the week, the hour of the day, and, in one
      notable case, the lowest factor of Ravenclaw's current house
      points. There were walls pretending to be doorways and doorways
      pretending to be walls. Pathways from commonly used room to room
      were handed down, year to year, within houses. Secret passages,
      trick doors, and the patterns of moving staircases were valuable
      commodities that could save days of time over the course of a
      student's seven-year career. Two rooms close enough to share a
      common wall could require several solid kilometers of winding
      hallways to reach each other, while two other rooms on the far
      sides of the castle could be only a few minutes apart if they
      shared a direct passageway. To make matters worse, there had been a
      rash of disappearing corridors over the past few days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The result was that the time it took to walk from classroom A to
      classroom B had very little to do with their actual geography, and
      more to do with one's knowledge of the school's hidden ways and the
      sheer mental strength it took to commit them all to memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall walked through the school as if she was born there.
      She walked straight through solid-seeming walls, ignored
      inviting-looking hallways, said cryptic phrases at random-seeming
      statues and suits of armour, and, once, had to turn around and walk
      backwards down some stairs for no obvious reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had taken Milo half an hour to walk from the staircase that
      led up to Gryffindor Tower to the Headmistress's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall led them back in under a minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and that's how I defeated the Death Eaters and damaged the
      tower," Milo explained. "And before you ask, don't worry. The trap
      will only trigger once; it won't go off on the other students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make no mistake, Mister Amastacia-Liadon, we are not yet
      finished with this subject," McGonagall said archly. "You are
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> to go leaving booby-traps in this castle, is that
      clear? No matter <em class="calibre8">how</em> safe you think they are. The
      possibility of accident is far too great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. "Yes, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But for now, I believe, I shall simply say: <em class="calibre8">well done</em>.
      I can't think of many grown witches or wizards who would have been
      able to not only escape from that situation, but send the Death
      Eaters packing. However, would it not have been more expedient to
      simply capture them? Every Death Eater in Azkaban is a Death Eater
      we don't have to worry about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well..." Milo frowned. Why <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em> he captured them? It
      would have been easy. They were injured; he could have held them
      down with <em class="calibre8">Evard's Black Tentacles</em>, or simply the threat of
      further <em class="calibre8">Explosive Runes</em>, until help arrived. He hadn't
      even considered the idea. Had he simply failed an Intelligence
      check?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still, I can hardly blame you for panicking, all things
      considered. No matter; they'll be found." It was a statement that
      left no room for compromise, uncertainty, or alternatives. Milo
      reminded himself of which House it was that McGonagall was the
      Head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy sent a wave of alarm through their empathic link.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boss! We got incoming!" he said, poking his furry little nose
      out of the pouch that was his home. He sniffed at the air a few
      times with his goggle-enhanced nose (yes, the goggles improved his
      sense of smell, because magic). "Whatever it is, it smells
      <em class="calibre8">dreadful</em>. Oh, and it's <em class="calibre8">huge</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shook his hands out of his sleeves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," he said. "We're not alone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall narrowed her eyes and drew her wand. "Explain," she
      said briskly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a bit hard," Milo said. How do you go about explaining
      that you have a psychic connection with a sapient rat that could
      smell danger? Oh, right. "I have a psychic connection with a
      sapient rat that can smell danger," Milo said. "And danger is
      coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something tickled Milo's ears; a soft, gentle sort of caress,
      like a whisper without words. Had it not been for his familiar, he
      doubted he would have heard it at all. Having the rat within arms'
      reach created a connection of some kind that, using both of their
      eyes and ears, amplified his senses. He wasn't quite certain how it
      was supposed to work, as the descriptive fluff for the ability was
      scant. Something Harry said once came to mind...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Tongues</em>," Milo muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">soo</em>... <em class="calibre8">hungry</em>..." came a voice like dry
      autumn leaves brushed against oiled silk. "<em class="calibre8">must</em>...
      <em class="calibre8">feeed</em>..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless you mean 'must feed <em class="calibre8">me</em>,' I wouldn't try it,"
      Milo shouted back at the seemingly-empty hallway. McGonagall shot
      him a sharp, perplexed look. "Or you'll soon find that an
      eighth-level Wizard is no easy meat. <em class="calibre8">Back off</em>." If he
      could just draw it out somewhere visible...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a <em class="calibre8">Parselmouth</em>?" McGonagall asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "I can just use magic to talk to anything in
      its own tongue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's own tongue? That means..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">...the master? no... this voice lacks the Power...
      imposter... pretender...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo! Close your eyes and keep them that way if you value your
      life!" McGonagall commanded. With a flick of her wand, torches fell
      from the walls and flared up, creating a ring of fire surrounding
      them. With another movement, thousands of tiny, horizontal
      filaments of stone stretching from wall to wall raised up an inch
      off the ground from the stone floor and hung there, suspended
      tightly from the walls. Milo peered closer, and found that rather
      than stone, the threads more closely resembled lute strings of
      varying key, though he couldn't imagine what for. A third wand
      movement pulled dozens of razor-sharp, mirror-bright daggers from
      the wall that remained floating in front of her, trembling with
      power as if straining to be released. "Close your eyes!" She said
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Obscuro</em>," she said sharply, and Milo found himself
      with a soft blindfold wrapped around his face. He struggled and
      pulled at it as best he could, but it seemed firmly stuck to his
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the Hells is this?" Milo sputtered. Was this another
      surprise Polyjuice attack? He didn't have a trap prepared, this
      time. Not here, anyway. Maybe he could—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's thought was cut off by the most horrible, screeching
      cacophony that he had ever heard. It made the audio havoc of a
      half-orc War Chanter playing <em class="calibre8">Dirge of Discord</em> on a rusty
      Gehennan Morghuth-Iron fiddle with a bandsaw for a bow sound like a
      master elven court Bard Inspiring Heroism with a celestial harp
      accompanied by a chorus of Astral Devas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Got you now," he heard McGonagall say over the din, followed by
      a series of tiny thunderclaps and a roar of pain. Milo clutched his
      hands over his ears. He was having a serious reversal of opinion
      about the relative pros and cons of Familiar-amplified hearing,
      though it did allow him to catch McGonagall mutter something about
      "infinite points from Slytherin if I make it out of this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Is she winning? Should I help? What's happening?</em> Milo
      was going crazy with curiosity, tinged with panic. Clearly, this
      was Slytherin's monster—but what <em class="calibre8">was</em> it? <em class="calibre8">Judging by
      the fact McGonagall blinded me, it's probably safe to say it
      Petrifies by a Gaze attack</em>, Milo thought. <em class="calibre8">So, I can't look
      at it with my own eyes</em>. <em class="calibre8">I can't use</em> Chain of
      Eyes<em class="calibre8">, because the only nearby options are Mordy and McGonagall,
      and both would be Petrified if they looked at the monster. I can't
      cast</em> Arcane Eye <em class="calibre8">because it takes ten minutes...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It occurred to Milo that he had made a very large, very
      <em class="calibre8">irritating</em> oversight. Uncanny Forethought, the feat that
      allowed him to cast any spell he knew in six seconds, <em class="calibre8">allowed
      him to cast any spell he knew in six seconds</em>—regardless of the
      original spell's casting time. He could have saved literally
      <em class="calibre8">days</em> in Scrying over the last month had he paid closer
      attention to the wording.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Arcane Eye</em>." An invisible magical sensor winked into
      existence at Milo's shoulder, feeding him whatever it saw, and what
      it saw was carnage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A roaring inferno billowed smoke into the hallway, obscuring
      vision and casting everything in a hellish red glow. McGonagall
      stood in front of Milo with her eyes firmly shut, a cloud of
      daggers hovering in front of her. Through the fires, Milo could
      just barely make out <em class="calibre8">some</em> kind of moving shape. As the
      beast moved, it made a horrible screeching noise akin to demon
      claws on a chalkboard. It took Milo a moment to realize what was
      happening—the creature's every movement was playing a wretched
      dirge on McGonagall's lute strings. At every noise, McGonagall made
      a sharp movement of her wand, firing a handful of daggers at the
      source, each marked by a sharp <em class="calibre8">snap</em> as they flew through
      the air. More flew from the walls, ceilings, and floors near her,
      creating a steady stream of supersonic blades.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take long for the monster to cotton on to what was
      going on. The noise stopped, and Milo's imagination filled in the
      blanks: the monster (which, in Milo's mind, was a spidery,
      tentacled abomination like you'd find in the Far Realm, if you were
      mad enough to go there) was holding itself perfectly still to
      conceal its location, waiting for its moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall very clearly had no intention of giving it one.
      Whenever it so much as breathed or twitched, the strings wailed in
      protest, and there was a satisfying burst of thunderclaps as she
      attacked the source of the noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Curious for a better look, Milo commanded the sensor forwards.
      It flew unharmed between the daggers and through the flames,
      ignoring the heat and smoke altogether. It breached the flames, and
      Milo looked up—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yellow eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo thought for a moment that the monster had eaten the sensor,
      or perhaps used some sort of darkness spell, and tried commanding
      it to retreat. It was then that he realized the spell was simply
      <em class="calibre8">gone</em>. Was it somehow antimagic? Or...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...was the gaze of Slytherin's monster deadly enough to kill a
      <em class="calibre8">spell</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boccob," Milo breathed. Something tickled the back of his mind,
      something about the cry of the Mandrake...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo dismissed the train of thought from his mind. He'd come
      back to it later, after the encounter. Near him, McGonagall was
      breathing hard and heavily. The rain of daggers had gone from a
      rapid staccato to uneven, carefully picked shots. In a sudden flash
      of insight, Milo realized what was happening. The monster was
      toying with her, wearing her out. Slytherin's monster was preparing
      to strike. Milo had to act, fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was time to unleash some asskicking most Arcane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But to do that, he had to determine what it was—and he was
      starting to get a pretty good idea. They'd ruled out the idea
      before because this creature's form of Petrification simply
      paralyzed people instead of turning them to stone, but the evidence
      was becoming increasingly conclusive in spite of that. The
      Parseltongue, the association with Slytherin, the heraldry of the
      house. Everything pointed to one thing: snakes. Maybe its gaze
      wasn't turning people to stone, but Milo had long since learned not
      to rely heavily on preconceptions carried over from his
      universe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know your name, monster," Milo whispered to himself, drawing
      a mirror from his Belt. He'd been carrying it around for years,
      intended to ward off vampires. It was also handy for looking around
      corners without risking a headshot. But here, Milo thought it would
      have an even more potent effect. "<em class="calibre8">Arcane Eye</em>," he muttered
      to himself. Another sensor appeared at Milo's side, this one
      carefully positioned to avoid looking directly at the fires and the
      beast that lurked behind. There was only one snake that could kill
      with a glance, the Queen of Serpents herself. Of course the rumours
      of her death had been greatly exaggerated. They generally were, in
      Milo's experience. "<em class="calibre8">Mage Hand</em>." The small steel mirror
      floated away from his gloved hands, using the sensor to guide
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The steel mirror crossed the line of fire, blackened by smoke
      and heat around the edges slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite everything, Milo felt himself grinning. It wasn't every
      day that you got to kill a being of myth and legend with nought but
      a Cantrip and a pair of Divinations. He held the mirror in the air
      for a moment, pivoting it around to cover every angle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eat reflective payback, <em class="calibre8">Medusa</em>!" Milo snarled. He
      dismissed the <em class="calibre8">Mage Hand</em> to follow it up with overwhelming
      fire and explosions. It was the only way to be sure. The mirror
      fell to the ground, but Milo didn't realize his error until it had
      already touched the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mirror triggered the lute strings. Milo heard McGonagall
      intake her breath in a hiss, and refocused her attention on an area
      several yards to the left of where the Medusa lurked, firing off
      another burst of daggers. It would only take a moment for her to
      realize the error, but if the monster was quick enough, a moment
      was all it would need. Still, Milo reminded himself, that left the
      flames to protect them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...unless, of course, Slytherin's monster proved willing to get
      a little singed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Milo cried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Something</em> leapt from beyond the flames. Something scaly
      and dark. Something almost, but not entirely, unlike a Medusa.
      Before he could either avert his gaze or get a clear look, he lost
      connection with his second <em class="calibre8">Arcane Eye</em>. He heard McGonagall
      let out a sudden, sharp cry of pain, then fall silent. The
      blindfold around his eyes loosened, no longer glued to his face
      with magic. Milo pressed his back even further up against the wall,
      trying to make himself as small as possible, while he listened for
      the monster. However, even with his familiar-enhanced ears, now
      that the monster was outside of the string-covered area, he
      couldn't hear so much as a whisper of scale against scale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that, when it really came down to it, it mattered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The beautiful thing about magic—well, <em class="calibre8">one</em> of the
      beautiful things about magic, after the versatility, power, style,
      and mystique—was how indiscriminate it was. He didn't <em class="calibre8">need</em>
      to aim.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Glitterdust</em>!" For once, being blindfolded was
      something of an advantage, as Milo was not subjected to the
      blinding light of his own spell. "<em class="calibre8">Evard's Black
      Tentacles</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took Milo a moment to realize that he wasn't yet dead. Had he
      managed to disable the monster with the tentacles, or was it simply
      waiting for him to take a peek?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Detect Thoughts</em>." Milo had no intention of attempting
      to listen to the creature's dark designs, but at the very least the
      spell would tell him if it, or any other mind capable of thought,
      was still nearby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aside from Mordy, the spell found no matches. Milo breathed a
      sigh of relief, sagging to the floor. He was going to live to see
      level nine. He was going to—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd been—should have been—in the spell's area.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo tore the blindfold from his face, dismissing the tentacles
      as he did so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmistress lay on the floor, mirror clutched in one
      outstretched arm, the other soaked in blood. She was deathly
      still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boccob, Fharlanghn and Pelor," Milo cursed, running up to
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo didn't have any actual skill ranks invested in Heal, but
      with assistance from Mordy and the Healer's Kit he kept on hand, he
      could get by at some simple tasks. He'd made a point over the last
      year to do some research on basic human anatomy of the residents of
      these parts, whose physiology seemed to operate under bizarre and
      overly complicated and seemingly contradictory rules far inferior
      to his own streamlined and logical Hit Points system. After all,
      how did it make sense that two injuries that dealt the same amount
      of damage would have result in different severities of injury just
      because one was Bludgeoning and one was Piercing? This universe's
      blatantly unbalanced favour of edged weaponry was part of what
      convinced him to pull the <em class="calibre8">Mirror Move</em> trick to become
      proficient with his sword.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The point was that, thanks to his diligent research, keen
      perception and instincts, finely honed mind, assistance from a
      supernaturally intelligent rat as a nurse, and finely crafted first
      aid kit, Milo was able to hazard a guess that the oozing, swollen,
      inflamed bite on the Headmistress's blood-soaked wand arm was Very
      Probably Bad News.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you walk?" he asked her, to no response. He frowned, and
      checked her pulse. He didn't get one, but wasn't certain if that
      was because there wasn't one to find, or if he'd failed a check. To
      see if she was breathing, he reached for the mirror to hold it over
      her mouth. It wouldn't budge, she was holding on to it so tightly.
      Words like 'death grip' came to mind, but with effort he dismissed
      them. Panicking would do neither of them any good at this
      point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He gave the injury another look. It didn't seem to be bleeding,
      which was odd. From what he'd seen of the locals—images of Hannah,
      bleeding helplessly in the snow flooded his imagination—they tended
      to bleed like crazy from injuries of this magnitude. To Milo's
      kind, blood was largely cosmetic. It was a sign that said,
      depending on one's perspective, 'I'm injured, heal me!' or 'I'm
      injured, finish me off!' It served to enhance drama and tension.
      Blood in this world, near as Milo could tell, served a more direct
      purpose in keeping bodies functioning. Blood loss wasn't a
      <em class="calibre8">sign</em> of a problem so much as it <em class="calibre8">was</em> the
      problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And McGonagall wasn't losing any. And she wasn't breathing. And
      she wasn't moving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo could practically hear the copper piece drop. Slytherin's
      monster—Milo didn't know what it was, but he was now pretty sure
      that it wasn't a Medusa—had bitten her on the wand arm. Judging by
      the whole snake-motif-thing and the nature of the wound, it was
      likely highly venomous. Milo didn't know if that meant it would
      have killed her in hours or minutes or seconds, but McGonagall had
      clearly deemed it life-threatening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So she'd grabbed the mirror, and looked into the reflected image
      of the monster, Petrifying herself. Petrified people didn't eat,
      didn't breathe, didn't age, and, Milo was willing to bet, wouldn't
      succumb to poison or disease.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Clever</em>," Milo whispered in admiration. <em class="calibre8">I guess you
      don't get to be the Deputy Headmistress in a world-renowned school
      of witchcraft and wizardry by collecting bottle caps</em>, he
      thought to himself. "<em class="calibre8">Levitate</em>." McGonagall floated a few
      feet off the ground, completely unmoving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo walked behind her to the Hospital Wing, gently pushing her
      as he went. <em class="calibre8">I spend altogether too much time</em> Levitating
      <em class="calibre8">people to the Hospital Wing</em>, he reflected. Then he
      frowned. <em class="calibre8">Reflected</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why had McGonagall bothered with the mirror? All things
      considered, it would have been far easier in the time she had
      available for her to simply look up and meet the gaze of the
      monster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was beginning to get the feeling that they'd been operating
      under a fundamental misunderstanding of the creature's
      capabilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had been diligently researching the creature for weeks,
      without success. Nothing Milo had read in his <em class="calibre8">Scholar's
      Touch</em>-fuelled-speed-run through the library seemed to match,
      either. This creature, whatever it was, was powerful enough to kill
      a <em class="calibre8">spell</em> with a look, was venomous enough that McGonagall,
      likely the most skilled transfigurer alive, was forced to
      deliberately send herself into stasis rather than, say,
      transfiguring the venom inside of her into water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps they'd been searching using the wrong criteria. The most
      prominent feature of Slytherin's monster was that anyone who saw it
      was Petrified, and both he and Hermione had been searching first
      for a list of magical creatures with that ability, then trying to
      determine which of them the monster was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But what if Slytherin's monster <em class="calibre8">couldn't</em> Petrify with a
      gaze? If that was all it took, McGonagall wouldn't have bothered
      with the mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo hurried down the hallway pushing the injured McGonagall,
      he became increasingly certain that he was right. The Petrification
      was a distraction. <em class="calibre8">What else do I have to work with?</em>
      Milo's mind raced. <em class="calibre8">It speaks Parseltongue, so it's either a
      snake, or it, like me, has certain Polyglot talents. It's venomous,
      fitting with the whole snake thing, so that's a start</em>.
      Unfortunately, there were thousands of completely nonmagical
      venomous snakes Milo could think of, much less magical ones. Venom
      was kind of what snakes were famous for. Milo glanced at
      McGonagall's wounded arm. <em class="calibre8">Venom</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo threw open the doors to the hospital wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is the meaning of—" Pomfrey demanded, then froze when she
      saw McGonagall. "Oh, Minerva," she sighed. "Just, er, float her
      over to this bed, will you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It bit her," Milo said rapidly. "So don't wake her up before
      you can figure out what to do about that. Gotta run, bye!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, boy!" Pomfrey shouted, but Milo had already broken into a
      dead sprint to the library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He might not know what the monster was (yet), but that didn't
      mean he couldn't find out where it lurked. And Slytherin's monster
      had given him a way to do just that—but he needed to make some
      preparations first. He'd learned (the hard way) that, sometimes,
      rushing in blind and unprepared was the exact opposite of what one
      did when one desired to survive to be able to cast ninth-level
      spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was just rounding the last corner when a hill giant threw a
      boulder at his chest. Milo lost balance and fell painfully to the
      ground with a curse. A huge, tawny owl Milo had never seen before
      stood on his chest, a roll of parchment tied to one leg.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just what I needed," he muttered. "More complications." Milo
      untied the roll, looking at it carefully. It was on thick, white,
      expensive parchment and sealed with green wax bearing an unfamiliar
      sigil with a familiar name:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">DEPARTMENT OF MAGICAL LAW ENFORCEMENT</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Underneath, written by hand in similar-coloured emerald ink:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">URGENT</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
