<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 48: CC 15: Not So Subtle, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: Not So Subtle</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> Essay, Exam, and Holiday Season
      is finally over, so we can now go back to our regularly-scheduled
      fanfiction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you see that?" PC Travis asked, peering through the
      binoculars into the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See what?" Fiona asked distractedly, focussing her attention on
      the Dursley's front porch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An owl," Travis said. "Don't often see them places with this
      many people, and in broad daylight no less."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you focus?" Fiona asked. "We're only <em class="calibre8">posing</em> as
      birdwatchers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speak for yourself," Travis said defensively. "I've been a
      member of the BBC for five years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona couldn't help herself. She lowered her binoculars and
      stared at him in the face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre8">BBC</em>? Next you'll say you voice the Daleks." She
      raised her binoculars again. "What does that even mean, anyway?"
      she added, mostly to herself. "Being a <em class="calibre8">member</em> of the BBC.
      They're not a club, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still, make sure you put in a good word for me with Tom Baker
      next time you see him." Fiona couldn't see Travis's face because
      she was staring through her binoculars, but she was fairly certain
      he was rolling his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It stands for the British Birdwatching Community," Travis said
      through clenched teeth. "And Tom Baker hasn't been the Doctor since
      1981."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona grinned. "He'll always be <em class="calibre8">my</em> Doctor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd been doing this for the better part of a month, now.
      Sometimes they were birdwatchers, sometimes they were a young
      couple looking to buy or rent a home, sometimes (when they were on
      duty) they just drove past in their patrol car trying to look
      casual. Well, as casual as you <em class="calibre8">can</em> look driving a police
      car in a neighbourhood like Little Whinging. They had to work this
      around their regular duty schedule, which made things even more
      difficult. And then there was the nagging fear that they
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> found what they were looking for, but had been made to
      forget...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold up," Travis said slowly, peering through his binoculars.
      "I don't <em class="calibre8">believe</em> it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Fiona asked. Had they finally made their breakthrough?
      "What do you see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a Guatemalan Pygmy Owl!" he said. "They're terribly
      rare—even in Guatemala! I wonder how it got to Little
      Whinging?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey. Focus," Fiona urged. "We're looking for clues, not
      owls."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clues as in articles and goings on of a suspicious nature?"
      Travis asked in a strange voice. He still hadn't moved his
      binoculars from above the house across from the Dursleys'.
      "Possibly related to undertakings criminal and, in our case,
      potentially arcane?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, which you bloody well know," Fiona said irritably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then maybe you'll be interested to hear that this particular
      owl has a newspaper tied to its leg."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis and Fiona lowered their binoculars and looked at each
      other for a moment, then were in their car—a beat-up, lime green
      loaner from PC Harris—and gone in seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes, a change of outfit, and a phone call later, they
      pulled up in front of Mrs. Figg's house in their patrol car.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona knocked on the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She won't answer," Travis said. "She's not home. We saw her
      leave not half an hour ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know that," Fiona said. "And you know that. And all the nosey
      neighbours of Little Whinging know that," she said with a pointed
      glance at Petunia Dursley, who was peering at them from over her
      just-painted white fence (some dastardly individual, it appeared,
      had defaced it with cryptic writing in the dead of night), "but
      they don't know that <em class="calibre8">we</em> know that. So we knock,
      first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After waiting what Fiona judged an appropriate amount of time,
      they opened the door and walked in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't we breaking the law?" Travis whispered. "I feel like,
      maybe, we aren't supposed to do that. We're sort of supposed to do
      the opposite of that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Fiona said. "Because not five minutes ago the police
      received an anonymous tip-off of that a suspicious person had
      illegally trespassed into this residence intent on committing
      criminal acts. As the closest available officers of the peace, it's
      our duty to investigate. Make sure we search thoroughly; he could
      be hiding anywhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We did?" Travis asked. "That's rather convenient, wouldn't you
      say? Did we get a description?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Suspect has a black waxed moustache, a black domino mask, a
      black top hat and a bag with a green pound sign stitched on
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Travis said. "One of <em class="calibre8">those</em> anonymous tip-offs.
      Just goes to show that you should always lock your door when you
      leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona grinned. "If you don't, <em class="calibre8">anyone</em> might wander
      in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first thing Fiona noticed—as well as the second, third,
      fourth, and fifth thing—was the cats. There was a tabby on the
      dresser, a calico on the table, a pair of white ones on the rug,
      and an enormously fat grey one on the mantle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every single one was staring at them silently with large,
      unblinking eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well thank God that's not too creepy or anything," Fiona
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe we shouldn't be here," Travis said, eyeing the cats
      nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona shook her head. "We have a job to do, Constable. If this
      is the house of our perp—or someone who can lead us to him or
      her—we need to risk it. Besides, Hannigan knows we're here. In case
      anything... well, just in case." In case anything happens to us,
      she'd been about to say. They both had a pretty good idea of what
      'anything' that would be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona had expected, going in, that they'd have to search the
      house top to bottom to find something suspicious. She'd expected it
      to be well hidden, innocuous at first glance but sinister on closer
      inspection. In all honesty, she'd secretly expected a bookcase to
      open a secret door. Something, you know, magic-y.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hadn't expected it to be sitting on the top of the morning
      mail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell!" She exclaimed when she saw it, recoiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Travis asked, then followed her eyes. He stared at it
      silently for a moment, then shrieked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stand back," Fiona said, then drew her billy club and poked it
      gently. Nothing happened. With a nervous swallow, she drew her
      white latex gloves from her belt (she'd never tell any of her
      co-workers, but she always thought of it as her utility belt) and
      picked it up. She half expected it to explode or speak or hex her
      or something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What..." Travis stammered. "What do we do with it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's evidence," Fiona said. "Hard evidence." With this, they'd
      have little trouble convincing anyone of what was really going
      on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In her hands was a broadsheet, printed on stiff, slightly
      yellowed paper. The lettering was ever-so-slightly uneven and
      blotchy, but otherwise, it looked remarkably normal, if
      old-fashioned. It reminded her a little of the commemorative
      Armistice Day edition of <em class="calibre8">The</em> <em class="calibre8">Times</em> that her
      great-grandfather had framed in his little flat up north.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this paper wasn't <em class="calibre8">The Times</em>. The large-print header
      declared itself <em class="calibre8">The Daily Prophet</em>. The front-page headline
      read: HOGWARTS' CHILDREN MISSING, with the subtitle, LOCKHART ON
      THE CASE. Tucked away in one corner was an article saying
      DUMBLEDORE SACKED, subtitled, HEADMASTER DENIES ACCUSATIONS OF
      GROSS INCOMPETENCE.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All of that was a little bit odd, but the weird bit—the
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> weird bit—were the pictures. There were large
      headshots of the eight missing children on the front page staring
      up at her. Literally staring. The pictures <em class="calibre8">actually moved</em>
      to follow her, as if someone had managed to turn the paper into a
      tiny television set. All except for the one captioned Luna
      Lovegood, that is, which was running around in
      her—<em class="calibre8">its</em>—little picture with a net, as if chasing something
      no-one else could see. They looked almost alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A frightening thought struck Fiona.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H—hello?" she said to the paper hesitantly. Blessedly, none of
      them reacted to her voice. The implications of that would be
      significant, to say the least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't long after the shock wore off that the anger crept
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fiona—Sergeant—are you feeling quite all right?" She dimly
      heard Travis ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Loki wasn't a wizard. Loki wasn't a family of wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Loki was a <em class="calibre8">community</em> of wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wizards that had <em class="calibre8">children</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And they'd <em class="calibre8">lost them</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They have magic," she whispered. "<em class="calibre8">Magic</em>, Constable.
      And what do they do with it? Do they solve world hunger? Do they
      cure AIDS? Cancer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be fair, we don't really know if they <em class="calibre8">can</em> do those
      things," Travis countered in a reasonable voice. But Fiona didn't
      want <em class="calibre8">reasonable</em>. She wanted <em class="calibre8">justice</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we sure as Hell know they can erase memories. How many wars
      could you solve just by making some warlords forget their reasons
      for fighting? By making people forget their hatred?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But didn't you say just last week that tampering with memories
      was akin to murder?" Travis pointed out quietly. Fiona chose to
      ignore him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They could just wave their hands and, <em class="calibre8">poof</em>, solve the
      world's problems. Some, at least. But what do they do? They break
      into houses and mess with our heads to cover their tracks and they
      <em class="calibre8">lose children</em>." Fiona took a deep breath, trying to calm
      down. Her gloved hands were clenched to fists. She tossed Travis
      the paper before she wrinkled or tore it in anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was all so <em class="calibre8">stupid</em>. The paper said the children had
      already been missing for over a day, now. Most missing persons, if
      they weren't found in the first forty-eight hours, were never seen
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They could have come to us," she muttered to herself. Finding
      lost children was, in part, what the force was <em class="calibre8">for</em>. And,
      over the years, they'd gotten very, very good at it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll catch them, Fiona," Travis said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona's mind was already racing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," she said. "Yes, we will. Get in touch with your friends
      at the BBC. We have work to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it turned out, if you knew what you were looking for and had
      several hundred local birdwatching wackos (Fiona called them
      'enthusiasts' on the rare occasion she found herself within earshot
      of them) at your disposal, witch hunts were surprisingly easy.
      Fiona shuddered to think what the Spanish Inquisition, expected or
      no, could have gotten up to if they'd been given a pair of
      binoculars and a floppy tan hat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> was, as its name suggested, delivered
      by owl (Owl!) every day to at least several dozen homes in the
      Surrey area, but probably several more. After asking around, Travis
      found that they were not the first to discover these messenger
      owls, who had first been seen in numbers in 1981. There was that
      year again. 1981. Between the wizards and the Doctor, it was a bad
      year all around. Something significant had happened then, but Fiona
      was at a loss as to what.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The owls weren't just used to deliver the paper, either. Owls
      had been spotted all across Britain carrying perfectly
      normal-looking postage. This, like most things surrounding these
      wizards, irritated Fiona. Regular, non-magical people had gone
      through great efforts to set up a perfectly functional national
      postal system, but apparently that just wasn't <em class="calibre8">good enough</em>
      for wizards. No, they disdained the delivery network of the common
      masses and used their own private owl-based system. In any case,
      how the Hell did the owls know where to go? It made no sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Confusing as it was, it was also an enormous weakness. You don't
      have to be a hardened outlaw or covert operative to know that, when
      trying to maintain a low profile, daily avian post drops could be
      something of a hindrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If they have papers," Inspector Hannigan said upon seeing the
      <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em>, "they have a society. And if they have a
      society, they have morons. And if they have morons, then we have a
      way in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By finding those morons and getting answers out of them, sir?"
      Fiona asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Sergeant. Not by <em class="calibre8">finding</em> the morons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that Hannigan told Fiona his plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She liked it immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em>, like most newspapers, had a
      letters-to-the-editor page where readers could send short letters,
      mostly to complain about being referred to as 'wackos' instead of
      'enthusiasts.' In small print at bottom of the page was an address
      to send those letters to:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">777 DIAGON ALLEY<br class="calibre4"/>
      LONDON<br class="calibre4"/>
      UNITED KINGDOM</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't the only place 'Diagon Alley' was mentioned in the
      newspaper. There were ads for shops, which sold everything from ice
      cream to cauldrons to 'magical' pets. Magical. Pets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She loved Sprocket well enough, but if she could replace him
      with a magical talking version that could open tins for himself,
      she'd do so in a heartbeat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no record, and never had been, of a street named
      'Diagon Alley' in London—or anywhere else in the country, for that
      matter. The alley was invisible, unknown. A ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only way to find it would be to ask someone who knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took them three days to put together everything they needed,
      and another two weeks for their wackos to find them a satisfactory
      mark. They didn't tell the birdwatchers <em class="calibre8">why</em> they were
      looking for owls in the middle of the largest metropolitan area in
      the country, of course, but that didn't stop them from helping.
      They just subtly encouraged the idea, which was already floating
      about, that they were the descendents of secret messenger owls used
      carry secure information in WW2. People will sometimes resort to
      the most desperate of excuses to avoid facing the truth in front of
      them: that magic is real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it is <em class="calibre8">weird</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From there, it was simply a matter of going door-to-door. Nobody
      answered until the fifth one—not terribly unusual, considering it
      was the middle of the working day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" came a quiet, sleepy sort of voice, followed by a loud
      sneeze. The door opened a crack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister... Fortescue?" Fiona asked. If they were right in their
      theory, this man had the information they needed. However, he would
      also have access to mysterious and largely unknown powers. Fiona
      couldn't help but hope, just a little bit, that they were
      wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aye," he said, then sniffed. "Who wants to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We three seem to be, ah, lost," she said. "Could you perhaps
      point us in the direction of," she swallowed, "Diagon Alley?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An immediate change came over Fortescue. He opened the door the
      whole way and smiled. He was a middle-aged man with a large black
      beard, dressed in a housecoat and fuzzy slippers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked the three of them—Fiona, Travis, and Hannigan—up and
      down for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A bit foreign, are you?" he said. "I'd be there myself, if not
      for this nasty cold. Just head right a few blocks—careful crossing
      the street, the Muggle drivers are madmen, all of them— and turn
      left on Charing Cross, then keep walking until you see the Leaky
      Cauldron. If you're a squib—are you a squib?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I beg your pardon?" Hannigan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona hesitated. What on God's green earth was a squib? She
      doubted he was referring to the explosive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No matter, terribly rude of me even to ask. Anyway, if you're a
      squib, you might not be able to see it at first, but its right
      between a Muggle book shop and a record place. You can ask Tom how
      to get in from there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They thanked him and said their goodbyes, all but running back
      down to the street.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was easy," Travis said after they were well out of
      earshot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too easy," Fiona grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you have as much experience as I have in the force and in
      life, Sergeant," Hannigan said, "you'll learn that it is impossible
      for something to be <em class="calibre8">too</em> easy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They followed his directions—earning more than a few peculiar
      glances from passersby—and immediately encountered a problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quinto Bookshop and the record shop shared a wall. It was quite
      impossible for there to be a pub between them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think it was a trick?" Travis asked. "Maybe to get rid
      of us while he calls for reinforcements?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If so, he's a very good liar," Hannigan said. "My gut says he's
      on the level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He said we might not be able to see it," Fiona said. "Guess he
      was right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe we have to do a spell to get through?" Travis said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He would have told us," Hannigan said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not if he thought it was obvious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona scratched her chin, thinking. There didn't <em class="calibre8">seem</em>
      to be anything unusual about where the buildings joined, but on the
      other hand, there wouldn't be, would there? Whatever had bewitched
      the Leaky Cauldron had kept the ordinary citizens of London out
      this long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could stake the place out until someone else goes through,"
      Hannigan suggested. "And see how that person does it, then
      follow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe there's a door, but it's just hidden?" Fiona suggested.
      They were so <em class="calibre8">close</em>. She didn't want to wait for another
      lengthy stakeout. She wanted in <em class="calibre8">now</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wouldn't help if it was bloody <em class="calibre8">invisible</em>," Travis
      said. "There's no <em class="calibre8">room</em> for it. It's
      <em class="calibre8">impossible</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Says the man who's trying to find a magic door," Fiona said.
      "Right. So let's just assume for a moment that nothing is
      impossible, and that there really is a door here. We just can't see
      it. So how about we just..." Fiona closed her eyes and took a step
      forward, into what her brain said should be a solid wall. She
      collided with something—but it wasn't a wall. It felt like heavy,
      solid wood. She reached around at waist level until her hands
      grasped a heavy brass knob, and turned it. Then she took a step
      forwards and opened her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The place was old. Like, really old. Fiona had been to actual
      ruins that looked newer than the Leaky Cauldron. The walls were
      crumbling old plaster, a heavy chandelier hung from the ceiling,
      its candles giving off dim light. There wasn't even a hint of
      anything electrical to be seen. Mismatched wooden tables were
      scattered throughout the room seemingly at random, with chairs all
      of different heights, styles, and centuries of origin set around
      them. The pub was largely empty, save for the tall, pale, hunched
      man with pointy ears behind the counter and a grimy, robed figure
      hunched over a mug, which, upon close inspection, had actual mist
      pouring out of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan and Travis followed her after a short delay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...makes no geometrical sense!" Travis said, before opening his
      eyes and looking around. "Oh," was all he managed to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shall we go talk to Nosferatu over there, then?" Fiona asked
      quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Count Orlock," Hannigan muttered. "Nosferatu was the name of
      the film."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning!" the barkeeper said in a surprisingly cheerful
      tone of voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona and Travis had spent days on their disguises. They only
      had a few scant pictures from the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> to go by,
      and had to make up the rest largely with guesswork based on the
      theory that the folklore about wizards and witches was a distant
      reflection of the actual, real-life wizards and witches—which
      seemed plausible, but by no means certain. Fiona had gone full
      Granny Weatherwax: heavy black boots and pants, long black,
      tattered dress and a pointy black hat, with large brass buckles
      strewn about more or less at random. In one hand she held her
      broomstick—well, almost a broomstick. Sprocket had coughed up a
      hairball on her actual broom just that morning, but what she had
      was probably close enough. She hoped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis, on the other hand, had gone for a more Merlin-inspired
      look: long purple robes and a purple hat, all with golden stars and
      moons poorly stitched on. He was carrying a magicky-sort of book in
      one hand, which was really an <em class="calibre8">Encyclopedia Britannica</em> with
      the cover filed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona and Travis had had to take time off of work sewing,
      stitching, and hunting down costume supplies. But Hannigan... well.
      Hannigan had thrown his together quite quickly.
      <em class="calibre8">Suspiciously</em> quickly, in fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was almost as if he already had his costume, and had been
      just waiting for an excuse to wear it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" he asked from behind a bushy, fake white
      beard. "Do you wish me a good morning, or mean that it is a good
      morning whether I want it or not; or that you feel good this
      morning; or that it is a morning to be good on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Count Orlock-lookalike blinked his huge, dark eyes and
      stared at Hannigan for a moment, taking in his worn grey robes, his
      wide-brimmed grey hat, and his gnarled wooden staff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant, did you want a bloody coffee, a brandy, or a beer?"
      Orlock said irritably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er," Fiona interjected. "None for us, thank you. We were
      actually just on our way to, ah, Diagon Alley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, why didn't you say so? It's just out the back." He pointed
      at a crooked, worn back door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three cops said their thanks and left through the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, bloody hell. Not another one of these," Hannigan
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind the door was a solid brick wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pft," Travis said dismissively. "We know how to deal with these
      now." He closed his eyes and confidently strode into the wall,
      purple robes flowing billowing behind him dramatically. He then
      promptly bashed his forehead into the wall and reeled backwards,
      clutching his head. "Uh," he said. "Does anyone have a plan-B?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan shrugged. "Same way crooks get into apartment
      buildings. Everyone tie their shoes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure enough, after only a few minutes, another patron of the
      Leaky Cauldron walked through, gave them a passing glance, and
      stood before the wall. He tapped the bricks a few times in several
      places, and the wall vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me!" Hannigan said, leaping up and sticking his hand
      through the open space. "Yes, thank you. Sorry." The stranger
      walked through the doorway and left them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them looked at each other for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I half expected you to look at the wall and say
      <em class="calibre8">mellon</em>, Gandalf," Fiona grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not meddle in the affairs of wizards," Hannigan said in a
      booming voice. "For they are subtle, and quick to anger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Half right ain't bad," Fiona countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And just like that, they were in.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
