<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 51: CC 18: The Boy Who Lived, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18: The Boy Who Lived</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> Big hand to Estroll, everyone,
      who's taken it upon himself to translate Harry Potter and the
      Natural 20 into Chinese. The URL can be found in my profile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say, this is just about the coolest thing that
      happened since I found out I was on TVTropes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart yawned as he walked back to his office,
      flexing his sore shoulders. He'd had a long day, between his
      lengthy correspondences to Rita at the <em class="calibre8">Prophet</em>, trying to
      spin Dumbledore's string of fiascos to put himself in a good light.
      He'd already half-convinced her that the only reason more students
      hadn't gone missing was because he'd personally uncovered and run
      off their kidnappers. Then there were the constant messages from
      the DMLE demanding more information about the kidnappings, as if he
      knew anything. Honestly, it would be so much easier if the kids had
      just been killed. Then people would stop asking him to mount a
      rescue mission...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An idea struck him. A little false evidence here and there, a
      few altered memories, and people would come to that conclusion
      without his needing to suggest it. And if they did miraculously
      turn up eventually, Lockhart was certain enough of his skills that
      he could take credit for that, too. A nice footnote to his already
      glamorous career at best, avoiding a difficult investigation and
      potentially hazardous situations at worst.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But all of that could wait until tomorrow. Tonight, nothing
      would stand between Lockhart and a cup of hot tea, his stack of
      fanmail, and a good night's sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart narrowed his eyes as he reached his office door. He had
      been about to turn the knob and enter when he noticed something
      awry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ever since the delinquents that made up this school's student
      body had begun leaving stink bombs in Lockhart's office every few
      weeks, he'd started taking extra precautions. The students would
      expect magical countermeasures and perhaps come up with
      workarounds, so Lockhart had resorted to a more mundane solution.
      Besides, he wasn't certain he was capable of some of the spells
      required for long-term, reliable security. Rather, he'd taken to
      leaving a hair wedged between the door and the frame when he
      left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hair was on the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart drew his wand, opened the door, and sprang through,
      hoping to surprise the crook mid-act.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was not a student that Lockhart found in his office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-headmaster," Lockhart stammered. This he had <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      been expecting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape was sitting in Lockhart's chair casually, as if this were
      his office and Lockhart was the intruder. He looked Lockhart up and
      down as if he were something unpleasant Snape had stepped in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To what do I owe the pleasure?" Lockhart asked, recovering, he
      hoped, smoothly. With a deft twirl, he sheathed his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you quite know why I'm here," Snape said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Lockhart raised one eyebrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm here to deliver a warning," Snape said. "Your first and
      your last." Snape lowered his voice to a deadly whisper. "I know,
      Lockhart. I know everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart's pulse raced. He could feel his heart beating against
      his chest as if it wanted to break free and escape. How had Snape
      figured it out? He'd been so careful. So bloody careful! He had to
      play for time. Maybe he could catch Snape by surprise and make this
      problem go away entirely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not certain I understand," Lockhart lied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't bother denying it," Snape snapped. "The evidence is quite
      clear. You made a grievous mistake the moment you applied for this
      job. If you've got something to hide," Snape said in a tone that
      could freeze an inferno, "<em class="calibre8">don't</em> become the Defence
      Professor of Hogwarts. It'll come out eventually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart moved his hand to his wand as casually as he could,
      trying to disguise the motion as a scratch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't try it," Snape said, raising his arms from below the
      desk. He'd had his wand in hand the whole time, trained on Lockhart
      under the desk. "Let's not escalate this further. The only reason I
      haven't revealed your secret yet is that, frankly, I didn't care.
      But your continued presence is fast becoming inconvenient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... see," Lockhart said. "Let's pretend, for a moment, that
      you were correct. What is the point in confronting me like
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To tell you to stop. Now. Presently, I'm content to let the
      past stay that way—the past. But if there's even one more, I might
      give the relevant authorities the hints they need to connect the
      trail of victims to you. Or I might come for you myself. I have yet
      to make up my mind. Are we clear? Yes? Good. Dismissed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart had already left before he realized that he'd just been
      kicked out of his own office. He wondered where he was supposed to
      go now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One thing was for certain, however: it was high time to update
      his resume.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The four of them—Hermione, Milo, Harry, and Ron—walked out of
      the library despondently. They'd given up in disgust as, once more,
      their research efforts proved fruitless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scratched at a bandage wrapped around his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't <em class="calibre8">believe</em> Snape banned our Quidditch gear," he
      complained. "A quaffle did this. A quaffle!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just be glad it wasn't a bludger," Ron said. "At least you're
      conscious enough to complain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been hit in the head by a carelessly-thrown quaffle in
      practice that morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's my exact point," Harry said. "A quaffle was all it took.
      Quidditch is bloody <em class="calibre8">dangerous</em>. Bloody Snape. I
      <em class="calibre8">hate</em> that oily, arrogant, petty git."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did somebody say Draco Malfoy?" said an (unfortunately)
      familiar voice. Shortly after, an (unfortunately) familiar boy
      stepped around the corner, flanked by his usual cronies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you want this time, Malfoy?" Harry asked
      impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco leaned with his back against the wall, twirling his wand
      idly between his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I think you're <em class="calibre8">well</em> aware of why I'm here,
      Potter," he sneered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, Potter," sneered Crabbe. "You know why we're here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, Potter," sneered Goyle. "You're cognizant of the grounds
      for which we are here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Idly, Draco tossed a brightly wrapped sweet over his shoulder,
      which Goyle caught, unwrapped, and swallowed with practiced
      speed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes. "We don't have time to play your
      little games, Malfoy. Why don't you run along and make someone else
      lament your existence? Just this once?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's too late for that, I'm afraid," Draco said. "You've fallen
      directly into my trap!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Ron asked bluntly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I laid a trail of breadcrumbs so subtle and intricate that you
      followed them, like a rat—pardon the expression, Weasley—sniffing
      out a particularly delicious bit of cheese, or a shark smelling a
      drop of blood in the ocean. But you didn't realize that
      <em class="calibre8">I'm</em> the shark, now did you? The shark guarding the cheese.
      Only there is no cheese. No. Cheese. At. All." Draco narrowed his
      eyes menacingly. "Only the <em class="calibre8">shark</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mate," Ron said, "you seem a bit confused."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should I take him?" Milo asked Ron, Harry, and Hermione. "Or
      does one of you want to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, not to be stopped by interruptions or badly mixed
      metaphors, steamrolled on obliviously. "It was all me!" Draco
      declared. "And now it's the end for you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was <em class="calibre8">you</em>?" Milo asked, genuinely shocked. "You're
      the—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it was me!" Draco said. "The notes slipped under the
      door? The clues in the <em class="calibre8">Prophet</em>? The dust in the
      footprints? The missing pages from the library? The Mandrake root
      in the sweets? All me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mandrake root..." Harry heard Milo whisper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The noise of Harry's, Hermione's, Ron's, and Milo's eyes
      simultaneously closing and opening in a quadruple blink of surprise
      was very nearly audible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I warned you not to come back to Hogwarts this year," Draco
      hissed. "I told you it would go badly for all of you. That the most
      fiendish plan ever concocted by any witch or wizard, living or
      dead, was in motion against you. All of you. And now here it is!"
      Draco paused, as if expecting something to happen. His grin slipped
      slightly as he waited in silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the name of the gods above and below," Milo said, "what the
      <em class="calibre8">hell</em> are you talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah..." Draco stammered. Evidently <em class="calibre8">something</em> was
      supposed to happen, but hadn't. Harry was hardly surprised; Draco's
      'plans' rarely seemed to go as, well, planned. After several
      profoundly awkward seconds, he rallied. "You may think you're some
      bigshot, Potter, just because people say you killed
      He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named as a squealing baby," Draco spat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What</em>?" Milo said suddenly. Harry glanced over at Milo,
      who had a peculiar expression on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If no-one minds," Harry said, drawing his wand. He'd had just
      about enough of this. "I think I'll handle this one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you're nothing," Draco continued. "<em class="calibre8">Nothing</em>.
      Everything you are, everything you're so bloody <em class="calibre8">famous</em>
      for, was handed to you! You're completely defined by somebody
      <em class="calibre8">else's</em> achievements! You'd be <em class="calibre8">nothing</em> without the
      Dark Lord! Just a normal, stupid-looking kid with messy bloody hair
      and a knack for sticking your nose where it's not wanted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd have parents," Harry said through clenched teeth. "Which,
      need I remind you, is all <em class="calibre8">you</em> seem to have. Now run along
      before I do something you regret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that's <em class="calibre8">it</em>!" Draco snarled. "Crabbe! Goyle!" he
      barked at his henchmen. "Stop messing around and <em class="calibre8">do
      it</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Crabbe and Goyle didn't answer. In fact, Harry realized, it
      had been a long time since either of them had said anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Milo," Harry whispered, turning to the side. "I think..."
      But Milo was gone. Harry frowned, looking around. He was nowhere to
      be seen. His pet Mordy, looking slightly confused, was standing in
      his place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona heard the tires screech in protest as Hannigan slammed on
      the breaks, bringing the car to a sudden stop in the snow. The
      seatbelt locked, pulling her tight against the stiff chair.
      Hannigan had committed at least seven misdemeanors, not including
      the numerous laws of physics that must have been broken to get them
      into London so quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," he said. "Everybody out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whoever was in charge was clearly taking this seriously.
      Paddywagons and the new Armed Response Vehicles were scattered
      about in the staging area set up nearby the target, but out of
      sight. Heavily armed officers dressed head-to-toe in black milled
      about, checking their weapons and equipment, or simply pacing about
      to keep warm in the icy air. Other units would be cordoning off
      nearby streets to keep civilians out of the way before the raid,
      and there were even a few ambulances parked nearby, just in case.
      Fiona couldn't see them, but she knew that marksmen would be
      stationed on nearby roofs and in upper-storey rooms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan led them to a small cluster of men gathered about some
      large radios on light folding tables that served as a makeshift
      command post.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hannigan!" greeted a tall, clean-cut, rail-thin inspector. He
      was handsome, in a severe sort of way. His sideburns were trimmed
      so sharply that Fiona felt they should be registered as a lethal
      weapon. "Better late than never, I suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan shrugged. "Naturally. Knowing your parties, I figured
      it'd take at least a few hours for things to move past the
      'showing-off-the-new-doilies-and-curtains' phase." He yawned.
      "Looks like I was right." His face broke into a sudden grin, which
      he hid poorly. Despite their words, it was pretty clear that they
      were old friends. "Been what, six months, McTavish?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eleven," McTavish said. "And it was years, not months." He
      beckoned for them to follow him a few yards away from the radio
      crew. "Are we certain this is for real?" he asked, his voice
      lowered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Positive," Hannigan said seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," McTavish said, running one hand through his
      close-cropped, graying hair. "I had to hear you say it in person."
      He made a vague gesture at the men surrounding them. "They've been
      told. They didn't believe me at first. I passed around that...
      newspaper... your lot found, but a lot of them are still
      half-convinced it's some kind of trick. That it isn't real. I don't
      think they <em class="calibre8">want</em> to believe it's real." Fiona was pretty
      sure McTavish's men weren't the only ones who didn't want this to
      be real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If this goes smoothly," Hannigan said, "then it won't
      matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it you have some sort of plan, then?" McTavish
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sergeant Smythe here has been studying our perp's...
      abilities," Hannigan said. "She'll brief you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona swallowed. Even after all the time she'd been spending
      around Hannigan recently, she still wasn't particularly comfortable
      speaking with the brass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took a deep breath and spoke. McTavish's face became
      increasingly pale as Fiona worked her way from a selection of minor
      hexes and jinxes, up to the three allegedly 'Unforgivable Curses.'
      <em class="calibre8">If they're so unforgivable</em>, Fiona wondered to herself,
      <em class="calibre8">how come so many of these murderers are still walking
      free?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">To her surprise, McTavish didn't raise a protest at some of the
      more extraordinary facts Fiona mentioned. "That actually explains a
      lot," he said. "Back in the early 80s, we turned up dozens of
      bodies with no apparent cause of death. They were perfectly
      healthy—except for the minor inconvenience that they were stone
      dead. It also explains how they stayed hidden for so long." He
      sighed. "Partly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir?" Fiona asked. "I'm not certain I follow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Say you could just use magic to control a small number of
      people completely," McTavish said. "Either by this... this
      imperious curse, or by magical incentives—cures for sick relatives,
      magical blackmail, that kind of thing—how would <em class="calibre8">you</em> keep
      thousands, or maybe millions, of people hidden?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona's eyes widened. "You think they got to the PM?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would," McTavish said. "And some of the people who actually
      do things in government, too. It would also explain why all of
      these 'mysterious deaths' were so lightly investigated. If I were
      them, I'd hang on to the Commissioner like a lifeline." He
      straightened himself up. "But none of this is directly relevant to
      the task at hand. What do you recommend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shock and awe, sir," she said. "Get in there and get him in
      custody before he even realizes what's happening, much less has
      time to do sorcery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what?" McTavish asked. "Say we bag him. What's to stop him
      from just leaving after?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sedatives, sir," Fiona said. They'd come up with this one in
      the car. "The book I read said Apparating takes great
      concentration. Keep him too doped up to try it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do know we can't just drug people, don't you?" McTavish
      pointed out. "We do have to follow some rules, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can if we deem him a danger to himself and others, sir,"
      Fiona said. "Which shouldn't be too hard to swing. After all,"
      Fiona grinned wickedly, "he seems to think he's a wizard. Clearly
      delusional, sir. Maybe dangerously so. Then we explain to
      him—slowly, and in small words—that we'll go to the press if he
      doesn't co-operate. His own people will string him up if it gets to
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McTavish smiled, despite himself. "I like your style, Sergeant,"
      he said. "There may be a bloody knife fight over who gets to keep
      you, after this is all said and done. Ever fancy a gig in the big
      city? Think about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I..." Fiona stammered. She wasn't quite certain what to
      say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you don't need to answer just yet. But either way, I want
      you coming in with us. You're the only one here with a real idea of
      his capabilities, and we might need you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know it's not exactly by the book," Hannigan said. "But
      nothing about this operation is. Are you in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," she said. "Wouldn't miss it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right." McTavish said as if there was no question in his mind
      as to what her answer would be. "Best get suited up, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo raced through the hallways as fast as he could. It was all
      so obvious; he couldn't <em class="calibre8">believe</em> he hadn't put it together
      before now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the Mandrake root that should have tipped him off, months
      ago. He'd been so caught up looking for a creature that could
      Petrify that he'd forgotten, once again, that he was in a different
      world, now. A world with Mandrake roots. Mandrake roots that killed
      with a cry... or, with slightly faulty protection, knocked people
      unconscious. It had seemed so unnatural at the time, but Milo
      hadn't been able to put his finger on the reason why until right
      now. With the exception of spells that dealt damage, almost every
      single magical effect in the world—in Milo's world—was
      all-or-nothing. You're stunned or you're not. You're trapped or
      you're not. You're blind or you're not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this was a world with failure in degrees. The Mandrake could
      kill you, or knock you out, or stun you, or just make you
      uncomfortable, depending on the degree of exposure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin's Monster was the same as the Mandrake root. It could
      Petrify you—but that wasn't what it was famous for. Nobody wrote
      about how it could Petrify, because that so rarely happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you took Petrification out of the equation, it was obvious.
      Incredibly obvious. Resistance to magic? Speaks Parseltongue?
      Venomous bite?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin's Monster was a Basilisk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite the danger, despite the urgency of the situation, and
      despite the pain in his legs as he ran, pushing the limits of his
      pitifully poor Constitution, Milo felt remarkably calm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Circle Dance</em>," he cast for the second time, indicating
      the direction of the Basilisk and allowing him to triangulate its
      position. The spell didn't create an <em class="calibre8">image</em> of the
      creature—he didn't need that, now that he already knew what it
      looked like—so its Gaze effect wouldn't kill the spell, as it had
      when he'd tried to <em class="calibre8">Scry</em> it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everything seemed, for the first time in months, crystal
      clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had a monster to slay. He was prepared for this. He was
      very, <em class="calibre8">very</em> good at defeating monsters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he ran, Milo removed his Hairpin of Intelligence and placed a
      bucket over his head, tightening the chinstrap carefully. The
      bucket—actually a Blindhelm—had no eyeholes, and completely covered
      his face. However, the magic of the helmet allowed him to see
      perfectly, and actually enhanced his senses. He became aware of
      everything within five feet of him, whether he could see it or
      not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that wasn't the reason he'd made it. It was his ace in the
      hole against Slytherin's Monster: the helmet would prevent him from
      making any sort of eye contact with the Basilisk, thus, in theory,
      making him immune to its gaze attack. Against a traditional gaze
      attack, from Milo's world, it only provided moderate resistance.
      But all of his research on the vision-based magic of this world
      indicated that a selectively-transparent object, such as this
      helmet, should do the trick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was going to be almost too easy. Without its most powerful
      weapon, the Basilisk would basically just be a big snake. Milo
      would pin it down with tentacles, blind it with
      <em class="calibre8">Glitterdust</em>, and summon a couple of skeletal trolls to
      finish the job. The Basilisk could wear its fangs down to nubs on
      them futilely; he doubted even its venom would be able to kill what
      was already dead. That snake wasn't going to stand a chance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo would find it, kill it, and be back before Draco had
      finished his rant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spell led him to the entrance of a girl's washroom. Milo
      barged in, heedless of the improprieties of the situation. It was
      unoccupied—no students or giant snakes in sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Spontaneous Search</em>," Milo cast. A rush of information
      flooded his mind. He knew, suddenly, that there were six bathroom
      stalls (of which all but one were out of order), six mirrors (which
      were coated in dust), five hundred and seventy-four tiles on the
      floor (of which seventy-seven were cracked), and five sinks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. Five sinks? There were clearly six in front of
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took a few steps closer, examining the sinks. To test them,
      he turned the handles on each. All but one faucet started pouring
      water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked closer at the apparently-broken sink. The faucet had
      a tiny snake carved onto it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could this be the entrance? Milo was willing to bet, platinum to
      coppers, that the way to open it was with Parseltongue, as he and
      Hermione had worked out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo only knew one Parselmouth, and he wasn't here right now.
      Fortunately, that wouldn't be a problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Tongues</em>," Milo muttered. "<em class="calibre8">Open up</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sink began to move. It sank smoothly, silently into the
      floor, leaving a massively oversized pipe in the floor leading into
      pitch darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Dancing Lights</em>," he cast, sending four bright
      pinpoints of light racing ahead of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo stopped, on the edge of the pipe. Should he turn back and
      return with his friends? On the one hand, he'd learned several
      times over that teamwork was essential. But what he was heading
      into was <em class="calibre8">dangerous</em>. Like, really, really dangerous. He
      only had one Blindhelm to protect him from the Basilisk's gaze. A
      slight misstep and they could die. And, near as he could tell, if
      someone from this world died, they <em class="calibre8">stayed</em> dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. Milo would handle this one alone. He was ready for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo reached into his Belt of Hidden Pouches and retrieved his
      rope (fifty feet of silk, adventurer standard-issue), tied it to an
      exposed pipe, and lowered himself into the darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Major Image</em>," he whispered, sending an exact likeness
      of himself down the rope ahead of him. Most predators hunted
      primarily by scent, which the improved version of <em class="calibre8">Silent
      Image</em> he'd learned for Hannah's Christmas present last year
      could replicate convincingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite everything, Milo smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That oversized snake wasn't going to stand a chance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco waved a hand in front of Crabbe's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hellooooo," he said. "Earth to Crabbe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe didn't respond. In fact, he didn't move at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A horrifying thought dawned on Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He made eye contact with Hermione. Her eyes were wide and her
      face pale. That was all the confirmation he needed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everybody, close your eyes!" he shouted, clamping his shut.
      "You too, Malfoy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre8">come</em> now," Draco said scornfully. "You don't
      <em class="calibre8">seriously</em> expect me to fall for that, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordenkainen sniffed at the air once, twice, then scurried into
      a decorative suit of armour with the sort of speed brought on by
      pure terror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ssso clossse... ssso warm... ssso tasssty...</em>"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
