<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 52: CC 19: The Boy Who Didn't, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19: The Boy Who Didn't</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">In 1976, the Who were declared the record holder for the loudest
      rock band in the world after a concert in Charlton. They held that
      record for eight years until they were barely beaten out by metal
      band Manowar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona's mother was at that concert in Charlton and sat right by
      one of the speakers. She'd never fully recovered hearing in her
      left ear, and often claimed that sometimes, on a silent, windless
      night, she could still faintly hear "Baba O'Riley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If all twenty-seven thousand members of the audience were
      carrying an active, gas-powered chainsaw, the combined noise would
      be <em class="calibre8">almost</em> half as loud as that heard by Fiona's
      mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If every show ever performed by the Who had been as loud as the
      one in Charlton, their combined noise would be one hundred thousand
      times louder than the level required to cause nausea. It would be
      fifty thousand times louder than the point at which your vision
      starts to blur. It would be ten thousand times louder than the
      point at which your throat is vibrating so hard you can no longer
      swallow. It would be one hundred times louder than the point at
      which glass shatters. The noise would be so loud that, beyond
      simply being deafening, it would destabilize the fluids in your
      ear, inhibiting your balance as if you were on the far side of a
      bender worthy of the rock band in question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would have been <em class="calibre8">almost</em> as loud as the noise produced
      by the flashbang grenade thrown through the window of the grimy,
      prewar brick house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that's not even getting into the <em class="calibre8">flash</em> part of
      flashbang. Let's just say, for the sake of brevity, that it was
      pretty gosh darn bright and leave it at that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Klaxons and auto alarms across the neighbourhood blared in
      protest and lights flicked on in windows all down the street as the
      residents were disturbed from their slumber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before their perp would have any chance to recover, nine of
      London's finest (and Fiona, bringing up the rear) stormed in,
      leaving the cheap wooden door hanging on its splintered hinges.
      More police were outside, securing the back or blockading the front
      to catch runners. Not, of course, that it would help much—these
      wizards could flee without needing doors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"POLICE!" someone bellowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inside was a single black-robed figure, sprawled out on the
      floor. Carrow, presumably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every man and woman of the team had already memorized the layout
      of the building, so they broke into three prearranged teams to
      clear the remaining rooms while Fiona cuffed the one on the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is a common misconception that police around the world read
      from the same script when making an arrest. It had got to the point
      that there was a traditional response among Fiona's coworkers in
      Staines when, in a movie, a British copper read someone their
      very-American Miranda rights. That response was throwing popcorn at
      the screen followed by humming "God Save the Queen," for reasons
      no-one still around could remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There <em class="calibre8">was</em> a script they were supposed to follow,
      however, although Fiona may have editorialized it somewhat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're under arrest under suspicion of murder, conspiracy to
      commit murder, witchcraft, carrying an offensive weapon, having an
      offensive face, being an ugly git, being a part of a criminal
      organization, and for numerous general counts of being a really
      obviously bad guy. You have the right to remain silent, but
      anything you do say—what was that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dark wizard groaned inaudibly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You say you're resisting arrest?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard moaned in discomfort, his eyes unfocussed and dazed.
      His ears were bleeding slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You say you're a danger to yourself and others? That you need
      to be sedated for your own safety? Well, if you insist. How
      convenient that we all <em class="calibre8">just so happened</em> to be issued
      <em class="calibre8">just such a</em> <em class="calibre8">drug</em> in addition to our standard
      equipment. Must have been in error. I'm sure the guys in Logistics
      will sort it out. But in the meantime..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona shot Amycus Carrow full of enough juice to down a
      rhinoceros and called in the arrest on her radio.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some great and powerful dark wizard you were," she added. "Bit
      disappointing, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo crept along through the Chamber quietly, Thinblade of
      Warning held tightly in one hand. His identical, illusory
      doppelganger walked twenty feet in front of him, looking—and
      smelling—identical to him, surrounded by the four glowing pinpoints
      of a <em class="calibre8">Dancing Lights</em> spell. He was protected by as many
      magical defences as he was capable of, though, as always, he was
      uncertain of the practical effects of, say, a high Armour Class in
      battle with an opponent who didn't seem to have an Attack Bonus at
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stone pillars lined the hallway, carved with hollow-eyed snakes
      that seemed to move whenever he looked away. There was a weird,
      greenish glow in the place with no discernible source, except for
      the obvious: magic. Aside from the light and the serpentine
      columns, the vaunted Chamber of Secrets seemed to be sort of
      plumbing nexus, which suited Milo just fine. He'd first cut his
      teeth in adventuring in a sewer full of kobolds, after all. Of
      course, back then he'd had a Rogue, a Cleric, and a Fighter backing
      him up. He sometimes wondered what had ever happened to Wellby,
      Gerard, and Zook. What had they done after defeating Thamior? He
      knew Wellby, their Rogue, was planning on discovering some
      long-forgotten draconic heritage and dipping into Sorcerer, despite
      Milo's urgings to the contrary. With the sort of regular
      adventuring Milo had been denied in this bizarre world, Wellby was
      probably well on his way to maxing out Unseen Seer by now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he ever did make it home, Milo would probably have to do some
      serious grinding to catch up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shook his head, focusing on the task at hand. He could
      daydream about his home later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fact that the Basilisk lived in Hogwarts' sewer system
      explained the smell that Mordenkainen had picked up. The snake
      couldn't simply use <em class="calibre8">Prestidigitation</em> to maintain perfect
      hygiene, the way Milo could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo kept walking, hiding in the shadows behind his illusion,
      when he encountered a dead end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This he hadn't been expecting. It was a sheer stone wall behind
      a hideous statue of a rail-thin, bearded fellow in robes. Probably
      Salad Tsar Slytherin himself, Milo figured. He'd walked the length
      of the Chamber, but he hadn't found the snake. Could he have missed
      it somehow? Were there secret, branching corridors? Maybe he should
      walk back to that weird door with the snakes and the emerald eyes.
      Maybe he'd missed something. (He hadn't missed the emerald eyes
      themselves, naturally, which currently sat happily inside his Belt
      of Hidden Pouches and would do so until he next found a shop).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's about time we had a chat, face-to-face, you and
      I."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo whirled around. Behind him, a tall, black-haired boy was
      leaning casually against a pillar, idly twirling a wand between his
      fingers. He was, quite simply, beyond handsome.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Handsome in the way that nothing that was entirely,
      good-old-fashioned, vanilla human could ever be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His face was perfect. His face was perfectly symmetrical, his
      hair was perfectly combed, his skin perfectly clear. Even his robes
      were perfectly ironed. Perfect, as if painted by a middling artist.
      Good enough to look just like a human, but not good enough to look
      like a person. The boy looked... unfinished. There wasn't a
      freckle, pimple, pore, or any sort of blemish on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A middling artist... or a dabbling illusionist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin's Monster was on them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That much was obvious to Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd heard it slither past just a moment ago, hissing as it
      went. It had almost knocked over the decorative suit of armour she
      was hiding behind, which, unfortunately, she shared with Draco
      Malfoy. Mordenkainen the rat sat on her shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's going on?" Draco whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shhh!" Hermione hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Ron were hiding in an identical alcove just across the
      hall, or, at least, had been running there last time Hermione's
      eyes had been open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If only she could figure out just <em class="calibre8">what</em> the creature
      was. It mostly sounded like a basilisk—the sheer size of the
      creature, based off the noise it made, backed that up—but basilisks
      <em class="calibre8">killed</em> people with a look, they didn't <em class="calibre8">Petrify</em>
      them. Milo, who had handled most of the research on the monsters in
      the first half of the alphabet, had insisted it couldn't possibly
      be a basilisk. If only she could somehow ask McGonagall, she'd
      seemed to know immediately what it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And, for that matter, <em class="calibre8">how</em> was the bloody beast getting
      around? The monster sounded <em class="calibre8">enormous</em>. It would be noticed
      immediately if it just slithered down the main hallways, so it had
      to have some alternate route. Of course, Hogwarts was chock full of
      secret passages and rooms. For all she knew, it could have its own
      secret network riddled throughout the school, connected to the
      Chamber of Secrets at its heart. Or, actually, maybe the Chamber
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> a network of secret tunnels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She dismissed that train of thought. If the Chamber was so
      massive and pervasive, it would have been discovered long since,
      secret or no. Heck, the damage done by the Troll last year would
      probably have revealed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More likely the monster was utilizing a more obvious way of
      sneaking around. A second set of passages that mirrored Hogwarts'
      actual hallways, that allowed one to pass unseen. One that people
      couldn't—or wouldn't use.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer to <em class="calibre8">that</em> question was fairly obvious. Well,
      obvious to her, at least. The pipes. There were multiple bathrooms
      on every floor, and some places, such as Snape's potion dungeon and
      the greenhouses, had additional requirements for water. The monster
      could be moving unseen through the pipes of the school, where
      nobody would think to look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, that was ridiculous. There wasn't a <em class="calibre8">chance</em> that a
      creature as big as this one could fit through ordinary plumbing.
      She'd seen the pipes in the walls and under the floor when her
      parents had renovated their house three years ago. An ordinary
      snake would have trouble fitting through most of those. Could the
      monster perhaps shrink?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unless...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hogwarts was magic to the core. The lamps and torches on the
      walls never needed relighting or replacing. The hinges never needed
      oiling. The paintings never faded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the toilets never, ever backed up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could it be that the pipes <em class="calibre8">themselves</em> could expand? It
      wouldn't even be that hard. If a simple Growth Charm in
      Transfigurations could double the size of a rat, why couldn't one
      double the width of a pipe? It would have to detect when the pipe
      was blocked and expand as needed, increasing the complexity
      slightly, but that was hardly beyond the skill of the founders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Especially if one of them had ulterior motives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Expanding pipes was only one possibility. Likely the founders
      had access to spells with capabilities Hermione had never even
      heard of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the closest bathroom was on the far side of the floor. It
      didn't explain how it could get close enough to Petrify Crabbe and
      Goyle without being spotted by anyone. Well. Anyone who
      <em class="calibre8">spotted</em> it would be Petrified or dead, but surely someone
      would have seen the bodies by now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned. Could the monster have <em class="calibre8">another</em> set of
      secret passages?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There <em class="calibre8">used</em> to be a little-used hallway that ran right
      from the girl's bathroom on this floor to the library. It was a
      handy shortcut she used on long days spent in the library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the hallway had been one of several that disappeared in
      autumn. Flitwick had still been unable to determine what had
      happened to them; it was written up as typical mysterious Hogwarts
      behaviour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But what if that hallway was still there? What if it was just...
      hidden?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A horrible thought struck Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had used his illusion magic to hide several hallways,
      hadn't he? It was one of the precautions he'd taken in securing
      their War Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Where <em class="calibre8">was</em> Milo, anyway?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who the hell are you?" Milo asked, his words muffled somewhat
      by the magic bucket on his head. He was well aware that he looked
      patently ridiculous, but, in fairness, he hadn't expected to
      encounter Mr. Charisma down here. He hadn't exactly dressed for
      company. Besides, this boy, whoever he was, would make even
      high-level, ultra-fashionable Bards and Sorcerers insecure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I," the boy said, "am Tom Riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He said it like someone might say 'I am your King,' or even 'the
      Lord, your God.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that supposed to mean anything to me?" Milo asked. "Because
      I still have no idea who you are." <em class="calibre8">Or what you are</em>. Still,
      the name did seem familiar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I know <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> who you are," Riddle said. "Milo
      Amastacia-Liadon, Wizard from beyond. The boy with no past, and no
      dreams beyond power. The Sorting Hat made a mistake, with you. You
      would have done very well in my house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take a genius to figure out which house that was.
      "You're the Heir of Slytherin," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle bowed in a manner so elegant it would have shamed the
      knights of Myra (City of Light! City of <em class="calibre8">Magic</em>!). "The one
      and only," he said, then laughed. "Miss Granger was wrong, you
      know. There aren't thousands of us. The line of Slytherin was never
      a prolific one. There are but seven of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know what Hermione said?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I listened in," Riddle admitted. "Terribly rude of me, I know.
      It's a flaw I have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you... a ghost?" Milo asked. It was the only way he could
      see Riddle managing to spy on him without getting caught. Ghosts
      can move through walls, so, if Riddle was a ghost, he could simply
      lurk inside the wall, out of sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A ghost? No. Not a ghost. A memory. Preserved in a diary for
      fifty years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you have <em class="calibre8">got</em> to be kidding me," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," replied Riddle. "I'm quite serious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would like to register a complaint," Milo said to the
      ceiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh? I'm all ears," Riddle said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not with you. I'll get to you in a minute." Milo said,
      still looking up. "This was poorly foreshadowed! Who the hell is
      this Riddle character? What happened fifty years ago? What in the
      Prime Material plane does it mean to be a <em class="calibre8">memory</em> of all
      things? For gods' sakes, at least when I went up against Quirrell,
      I knew who the hell he was, at least. Bad form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who are you talking to?" Riddle asked. "You must realize your
      gods can't help you here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Screw the gods," Milo said to Riddle. "I'm going over their
      heads. The DM really fumbled this one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"DM?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dimensional Maestro. Whatever. Bring out your damn snake so I
      can kill it, already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My Basilisk isn't here right now," Riddle said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it is," Milo said. "I used magic to pinpoint its
      location. It's in this room somewhere; there's no use hiding
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Basilisk is on Hogwarts' second floor," Riddle said
      matter-of-factly. "It's in the hallway between the old
      Transfiguration classroom and the library, killing your
      friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Milo said. "That's impossible. My Divinations..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lied to you, I'm afraid." Riddle flashed him a smile. "Or
      rather, I did. I do that sometimes. It's another flaw of mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo rolled his eyes. "All right, all right. Out with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know you want to. You've got that look. Adventurer's can
      spot them quicker than they can spot the Rogue going for their
      purses. You're just <em class="calibre8">dying</em> to monologue at me. So out with
      it. I even promise to say 'you fiend!' and 'you'll never get away
      with this!' at the opportune moments, if you want. Then I get to
      kill you. See? Something in it for the both of us. We both go home
      happy. Well, sort of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why should I... monologue... when you already know what
      happened?" Riddle asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo rolled his eyes. "Fine, fine. We'll do it your way. So your
      name is Tom Riddle and you're a memory in a..." Milo finally
      realized where he'd seen the name Tom Riddle before. He suddenly
      felt very small. Very small indeed. Small and overconfident. "...in
      a diary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now you're catching on," Riddle said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was that book we found on Quirrell, wasn't it?" Milo asked.
      "Last year, when he went after the Philosopher's Stone. He had the
      diary." It all seemed so obvious, now. "<em class="calibre8">That's</em> the book
      the Death Eaters were after. They snuck in, posing as students, to
      get you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle smiled. "Go on," he said, as if talking to a favourite
      dog. "You're getting it, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The diary that... that I..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just say it," Riddle said. "The first step, when you have a
      problem, is admitting it, I've been told. Or was it the last step?
      It's the same in the end, either way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's voice fell to a whisper. He felt weak, as if the he'd
      been drained by a Wight. Somewhere in the unimportant background,
      his sword clattered to the ground. "But I was protected!" he said
      desperately. "I'm wearing an amulet!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you weren't always wearing it, were you?" Riddle asked.
      "You took it off..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I freed Quirrel," Milo said. He slid against the wall.
      Dimly, he was aware that Riddle seemed to be getting more
      substantial, more real, as they spoke. "I clamped my own amulet
      around his neck to free him of You-Know-Who's influence. I was
      vulnerable. I..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I made another amulet!" Milo practically shouted, pulling it
      out from under his robes. The Eye of Boccob carved on the amulet
      seemed to wink at him reassuringly. "I'm wearing it right now!"
      Milo pulled himself together and stood up. He hadn't realized he
      was on the floor. "<em class="calibre8">Kelgore's Fire Bolt</em>!" he shouted. He
      didn't care that it wasn't the most efficient or effective spell.
      He wanted that smug, perfect face to <em class="calibre8">burn</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. That was weird.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Glitterdust</em>!" Nothing. "<em class="calibre8">Evard's Black
      Tentacles</em>!" Nothing. "<em class="calibre8">Summon Skeletal Troll</em>!"
      Nothing. He didn't understand. He executed the somatic and verbal
      components perfectly. His <em class="calibre8">Dancing Lights</em> were still
      floating around, so he wasn't in an antimagic field. It was as if
      he was out of spell slots, but that was impossible. He'd been
      keeping track of them rigorously. He had plenty of spells left for
      today. Didn't he?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The funny thing about your abominable brand of magic," Riddle
      said, "is that it's based on memory. You memorize your spells in
      the morning, and you forget them when you cast. You have to
      remember what spells you have ready and what you don't. And of all
      people, I know best the strength of a memory. The strength... and
      the weaknesses." Riddle smiled again. "In particular, memories are
      all too easy to... forget."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The amulet is cursed," Milo realized. He'd had a similar idea
      when making amulets for the Ministry. "You made me make a cursed
      amulet. It works against everything but you. I did it right after
      I..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Say it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no use denying it any further. Milo knew exactly what
      had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cast <em class="calibre8">Scholar's Touch</em>. I read your book."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did more than just <em class="calibre8">read</em> it," Riddle said. "You did
      what nobody's <em class="calibre8">ever</em> done before. You read every page.
      <em class="calibre8">Every page</em>. Every possible page. Everything that I could
      ever say, ever do, ever remember. Everything. Every possibility.
      You didn't just read me," Riddle said, "you <em class="calibre8">copied</em>
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's impossible," Milo said flatly. "<em class="calibre8">Scholar's Touch</em>
      specifically has no effect when reading a magical book. It's right
      there in the description."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I wasn't <em class="calibre8">magical</em>, was I?" Riddle said. "Not in the
      way the designers of that spell meant, anyway. Not magical in the
      way you and your... kind are concerned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the creators of the spell clearly <em class="calibre8">intended</em> it to
      prevent this sort of..." Milo trailed off. He couldn't believe that
      he of all people just resorted to an argument that hinged on the
      <em class="calibre8">intent</em> of the text. It made him feel slightly dirty, as if
      he'd betrayed his core principles. In a way, he had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo suddenly remembered something that made this so much worse.
      "The original," he said. "Ron was going to give it to Ginny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just a ratty old book, now," Riddle shrugged. "I checked. Or
      rather, you did. One of many things you've since conveniently
      forgotten. I could tell you why, but, well, then I'd have to kill
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why not tell me anyway?" Milo asked. "I mean, what have you
      got to lose? It's not like I could tell anybody, even if I wanted
      to." It was the bane of villains everywhere: they're all just
      <em class="calibre8">dying</em> to tell you their clever plans. How else will they
      get the appreciation they desperately crave?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair point," Riddle said. "But I think the explanation would be
      quite wasted on you. It all revolves around souls, of course, and
      you know less than nothing about those anyway. Believe me, I'd
      know. I was in your head all year. Let's just say it takes a...
      <em class="calibre8">special</em> sort of ritual to split a soul, and you weren't up
      to it. So I was transferred, rather than copied."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... why?" Milo asked. "You were Petrifying people completely
      at random. Why bother? How could that possibly help you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, revenge, of course," Riddle said. "As well as planning for
      the future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Milo said. "Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly. When it came time for my triumphant return, I would
      need Dumbledore out of the way. Dumbledore was always most powerful
      as a figurehead, a rallying point. I could simply kill him, of
      course, but that would just make a martyr out of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you disgraced him," Milo said. "Made him seem incompetent.
      Like he didn't care about the safety of people's children."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naturally. I can always kill him later. Then I had to take out
      his Deputy, because, well, she's his puppet, obviously. I wanted
      Hogwarts under someone more... amenable to my position. Snape would
      do nicely. I couldn't simply kill the undesirables, no matter how
      much I wanted to, or they'd close down my school. So I had to
      Petrify them. You would not <em class="calibre8">believe</em> the lengths I've had
      to go through to set that up. It was a fine line to walk, but it's
      quite beside the point now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't explain what you meant by revenge," Milo said. "Or
      why the Basilisk is upstairs, fighting my friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Killing," Riddle snapped. "<em class="calibre8">Killing</em> your friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a crash and a series of tinkles, as if glass had been
      broken. Then again, and again. What was going on? What was the
      monster breaking? The only thing Harry could think of that was
      glass nearby were the picture frames, but why would Slytherin's
      monster attack them? Where was Milo? Had the monster got him? Was
      he enacting a clever plan?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do we do?" Ron whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could distract it," Harry whispered back, "while you put on
      my Cloak and run for help. Try to find Flitwick or Sprout. Or even
      Lockhart, I guess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What," Ron said, "and leave you to get eaten by a giant bloody
      snake? Not likely. How about <em class="calibre8">I</em> distract it while
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> run for help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop being such a bloody Gryffindor," Harry said. "I'm a better
      duellist than you. It should be me that fights it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The snake's resistant to magic and you know it," Ron said. "How
      about we both slink away under the Cloak?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And leave Hermione to the snake? Besides, Milo said magic items
      only work on one person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how about Draco distracts it while all three of us escape
      under the Cloak?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If only."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh!" Ron said. "Use Parseltongue!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a Parselmouth! Tell it to go away. Or eat Malfoy,
      <em class="calibre8">then</em> go away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, you're a genius!" Harry couldn't believe he hadn't thought
      of it earlier. Of <em class="calibre8">course</em> he should use his
      snake-controlling ability to control the giant snake monster. It
      was blindingly obvious. He fished the Cloak out from his school
      bag. "Here, hang on to this," he said, pushing it into Ron's
      hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oy!" Harry shouted into the hallway. "Slytherin's Monster!
      Bugger off!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"English!" Ron hissed frantically. "That was just English!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to concentrate—though he wasn't sure what to
      concentrate <em class="calibre8">on</em>, he'd never really been aware of when he
      was speaking Parseltongue and when he wasn't—and spoke again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Beast of Slytherin!" he tried again. "Begone!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Ron said. "Snake language, that time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sound of breaking glass stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">what's this? the master? has the Power... but
      different...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm your master, now! Begone!" Harry shouted again. Or at least
      he thought he did; he wasn't entirely certain what it sounded like
      to Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">...come out then, young master...</em>" Slytherin's Monster
      replied. "<em class="calibre8">...let me see you... so I will know who to
      spare...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's happening?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wants me to come out," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fat chance of that," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah..." Harry whispered back. "I have a plan. Run when you get
      the chance, right? Right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Hold up!" Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood up and drew his wand. The monster was obviously
      playing a trick on him—it had all the subtlety of a nursery rhyme
      villain—but he might be able to buy time enough for the others to
      get away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something hard and heavy hit him in the forehead. It was so
      surprising that he couldn't help but flinch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes snapped open reflexively, if only for a
      millisecond. It was long enough, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He saw a snake, but not the one he was expecting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carved onto the back of the wooden picture frame was a small,
      neat glyph of a snake in sepia.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your name isn't Tom Riddle, is it?" Milo asked. "Not
      anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it isn't," Riddle answered, as if it were the most obvious
      thing in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort," Milo spat. "You're after Harry because he killed
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It only lasted for a moment. Under other circumstances, Milo
      would have attributed it to a trick of the light, but it was
      impossible. The light here was green; there's no way it could have
      made Riddle's eyes flash red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That raving lunatic upstairs said it," Riddle said. "I thought
      he was mistaken, so I made you Apparate away—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Teleport," Milo said. "By means of the Astral Plane. Please,
      get your facts right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I made you <em class="calibre8">teleport</em> away and interrogated you.
      Turns out he was right, somehow. I'd always assumed it was
      Dumbledore who put an end to me, the other me. He's the only one
      who it made even a lick of sense to have done it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which explains the revenge aspect," Milo said. "That must
      sting, though. Finding out you'd been undone by a newborn." Milo
      knew he was in no position to talk; he'd been defeated by a
      <em class="calibre8">book</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A two-year-old, thank you very much," Riddle bristled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well then. <em class="calibre8">That</em> made all the difference, I'm sure.
      He must have over-powered you, with his superior strength and
      cunning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd show some respect, if I were you," Riddle snapped,
      brandishing what Milo recognized finally as that carried by the
      Death Eater he had switched places with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have you ever done that deserves respect?" Milo asked.
      "You were defeated by an <em class="calibre8">infant</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're attempting to goad me into rash action," Riddle said,
      lowering his wand. "It won't work. I'm well aware that, for the
      moment, I need you alive or I will cease to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the moment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the moment. Shortly, the point will be moot. I continue to
      grow in strength, and you will fade. In a matter of minutes, young
      Wizard, you will die, and I will rise again. It's been very
      inconvenient, operating through you. You can't do any
      magic—<em class="calibre8">real</em> magic—whatsoever, so I've had to rely on your
      inferior variety. Then there's that rat you have such an
      unwholesome relationship with. That pest was almost my undoing. How
      would I ever get you alone with it tagging along? Then you made a
      blunder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Sorting," Milo realized. "I left him to keep an eye on it
      while I went to spy on Lockhart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And do certain other things, as it turned out. Favours for me,
      you could say." Riddle smiled. "You made your first visit here on
      that day, before returning. I implanted the idea in your head to
      use that rat to patrol the corridors at night, freeing you for my
      purposes. From that moment, your soul was mine. I could implant
      ideas, and smother others. Didn't you ever wonder why you never
      thought to investigate the last opening of the Chamber? That it
      never led you to that great oaf Hagrid?" Riddle grinned wickedly.
      "When was the last time you saw Hagrid anyway, Milo? The lack of...
      foreshadowing... you were complaining about earlier? That was my
      doing. You're <em class="calibre8">mine</em> now, freak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you used me to... what, take out Peeves? For what possible
      reason?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To test my control of the Basilisk using you as a proxy,"
      Riddle said. "If it went poorly and the Basilisk got out of
      control, it wouldn't do enough serious damage to have the school
      shut down. Well, likely not. Besides, I <em class="calibre8">despise</em> that
      poltergeist. There is no place for it in my new world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, now what? Take out the Boy Who Lived so there will be
      nothing standing in the way of your return?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Precisely," Riddle said. "And thanks to you, I've even got my
      very own cell of Death Eaters, following my every order, heralding
      my return."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo said. "Crap. That's why I let them go. You made me do
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And as my first act as their new leader," Riddle said, "I will
      sow the seeds of death and chaos. I'm afraid the Muggles are in for
      a bad day. Their first of many."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other police filed back into the room, pulling down their
      intimidating black balaclavas, and reported. The team
      leaders—McTavish, Buckley, and Lyndon—said they hadn't found anyone
      else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the kitchen was empty," Lyndon, a tough brunette who might
      have been pretty if her nose hadn't been so severely broken, said.
      "As in, <em class="calibre8">really</em> empty. Bare shelves. Didn't they say that
      we found this guy because he was at a supermarket?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah..." Fiona said. "Huh." She frowned. "Did anybody find a
      wand anywhere? A plain wooden stick of about a foot or less?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a collection of shrugs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona patted Carrow down. There was a pocket sewn into his robe
      that looked like it might be a wand holster, but it was empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What the heck? If she had a little stick that gave her
      unrivalled supernatural powers, she'd make certain it was always
      within easy reach. In fact, she'd probably get a spare, just in
      case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think—" McTavish said. Fiona never did find out what it was
      that he thought, because Baldwin shot him in the head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lights flickered out, and there was a short series of loud,
      popping noises. The door slammed shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the dying started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world flickered green and black, like a strobe light of
      death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The moment the lights went out, Fiona had hit the ground. She
      knew what was coming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some of the other officers either hadn't taken her warnings
      seriously, or they hadn't had the time to act. She saw Buckley and
      a pair of policemen whose names she didn't know—a fact she deeply
      regretted, now—collapse, limp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wasn't sure who started it, but someone panicked and started
      shooting. Others joined in soon after. Uneven, staccato bursts of
      panic fire further lit up the unnaturally dark room. She cursed
      whatever idiot was doing it—in the mad lighting and chaos, they
      were as likely to hit one of their own as... well, as whoever was
      doing the magic. Unless they weren't acting under their own will.
      She was sure Baldwin, at least, was under their spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a pounding on the front door, a solid, rhythmic sound.
      It took her a moment to realize it was from a police battering ram.
      She'd never before heard what that sounded like from this side of
      the door. But it meant help was coming, at least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pounding continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or was it? It had only taken them a single hit to open the door
      the first time, and it had been locked. The door was a cheap,
      faux-wood model. No earthly force could keep intact under that kind
      of impact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was trapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've made a mistake," Milo said. "A critical mistake. Four,
      actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what might they be?" Riddle asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistake one," Milo said, holding up one finger. "Snakes aren't
      the only animals that hunt by smell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now!" Hermione shouted. She heard a slight <em class="calibre8">whoosh</em> as
      the rat on her shoulder fired one of his bracer-launched knuts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin's Monster was resistant to magic. Hermione had to
      assume that covered Milo's sort of magic as well as her own, so
      monster would ignore the <em class="calibre8">Explosive Runes</em> scratched onto
      the knut as if it were a light sea breeze. It was a hopelessly
      futile plan that would, at best, distract it for a moment before it
      ate the lot of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that was why Mordenkainen, who had pinpointed the monster by
      its distinctive scent, hadn't fired at the snake itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had fired at the ceiling <em class="calibre8">above</em> it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Multiple tonnes of ancient stone bricks poured down onto the
      monster. The dust and wind from the rock avalanche was enough to
      make Hermione stagger backwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did we get it, Mordy?" Hermione asked. "One squeak yes, two
      squeaks no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione let out a breath she hadn't realized she'd been
      holding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Squeak squeak</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could hear stones rolling over each other, now. If only she
      could <em class="calibre8">see</em>. She had no idea what was going on...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A thought struck her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" she said. "Pass me the Cloak!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," it was Ron's voice. "It sort of... got Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione was shocked. When had that happened? Had the
      monster killed one of her only friends while she cowered behind a
      suit of armour? "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's stuck in one of those... one of Milo's amber things," Ron
      said. "Like the one in Gryffindor Tower."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then we're dead," Hermione said. She could hear more bricks
      rolling off of each other. One touched her foot, making her jump.
      That Cloak had been her only plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Squeak squeak squeak squeak</em>!" Mordy kept
      insisting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He gave it to me," Ron said. "Here..." She heard footsteps as
      Ron blindly staggered in her general direction. She reached about
      with her arms clumsily to try and find him. It was like playing a
      morbid game of Marco Polo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, her hands brushed his shoulder, and he passed
      Harry's Invisibility Cloak into her hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Wingardium Leviosa</em>. I'm going to float this thing over
      the snake's head. If it's head is invisible, we don't need to worry
      about meeting its gaze. So, Mordy, squeak once if I should go left,
      twice if I should go right..." Then she realized, abruptly, how
      stupid that plan was. Mordy could <em class="calibre8">smell</em>, he couldn't
      <em class="calibre8">see</em>. There was no way he would be able to pinpoint the
      location of the Cloak in the air that way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More debris rolled across the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">SQUEAK SQUEAK SQUEAK SQUEAK</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fire another one!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was second blast, and stone flew everywhere. The next
      thing Hermione knew, a freight train slammed into her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was flung from her feet and landed awkwardly on her
      side before sliding into something solid and mercilessly
      unyielding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistake two," Milo said. He was lying on the ground. When had
      that happened? "Muggles are pretty badass." Milo had already made
      that particular mistake, once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona hadn't waited for the magic to start before she dropped to
      the ground. The visibility was poor, the situation was confusing,
      the enemy's capabilities were unknown and friend and foe were mixed
      haphazardly. It was complete, utter, merciless, unmitigated
      chaos.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But there was no reason that that couldn't work for her as well
      as it did for these wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody was paying any attention to her. There were people
      dropping left and right; what was one more harmless Muggle?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizards were using mobility and deception as their primary
      defence. They were Apparating or Disapparating or whatever whenever
      one of the surviving policemen or women aimed at them, and more
      often than not by the time the trigger was pulled, the police hit
      nothing but the wall. It was fast. Anarchic. They were
      nigh-unhittable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But they weren't invincible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona saw Lyndon make a snap-shot connect with one robed
      figure's shin before he could Disapparate. The wizard's leg buckled
      underneath him, and he fell to the floor in a cry of pain. Another
      wizard grabbed the first and winked out of existence. A moment
      later, when he returned, it was alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard aimed his wand directly at Lyndon's back. She would
      be dead in seconds, and she had no idea. There was nothing she
      could do, even if she knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, Lyndon wasn't alone. The wizard had made the
      critical error of Apparating within a meter of Fiona, presuming her
      dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona kicked the wizard in the knee with everything she had,
      which was probably overkill. Knees have to support a lot of weight
      but also have a wide range of mobility, and as a result they're
      extremely vulnerable. The kneecap popped, and the wizard screamed
      in agony as he fell to the ground. Fiona grabbed the wand from his
      hand and tossed it across the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A masked witch noticed Fiona's surprise attack and aimed her
      wand at her, already in the process of casting a spell. In
      desperation, Fiona grabbed the fallen wizard by the shoulders and
      rolled him on top of her. The wizard put up a struggle, but had
      absolutely no sense of the co-ordination and control needed in a
      hand-to-hand struggle like this. There was a green flash, and the
      wizard went limp in Fiona's arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The momentary distraction was all Lyndon needed. Her gun roared
      and the witch crumpled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two more wizards and another witch whirled to aim at Lyndon, but
      she dived through the door into the next room over. Green pinpricks
      of light shot through the open doorway after her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That left Fiona as the only active officer left in the room.
      Baldwin was still standing with his gun in hand, aiming at empty
      space. He hadn't moved since killing McTavish. Evidently, the witch
      or wizard controlling him had other things on their mind. Cooper
      lay propped up by the door to the kitchen, bleeding from a bullet
      wound to the gut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona was about to die. That was the long and the short of it.
      There were now five cold killers of supernatural power aiming
      lethal weapons at her, and she was largely without cover, save for
      the corpse of their friend lying on top of her. She'd been told,
      largely from movies, that in such situations time slowed down. As
      if she would have the good fortune. Her heart pounded, and she
      could taste nothing but adrenaline. Time seemed to be going faster
      and faster, as if in a race with her racing heartbeat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was an awkward angle, but she could probably draw her handgun
      from beneath the dead wizard. Not that it would do much could—she
      was a lousy shot. Ordinary British police generally didn't carry
      firearms, and the only reason she had one now was because McTavish
      had insisted she not be defenceless. If she could just take out the
      one that was controlling Baldwin, then he could potentially help.
      Or if she got the one keeping the door closed, maybe it would allow
      the reinforcements hammering at the door to get in. The only
      problem—well, aside from those previously mentioned—was that she
      had no idea who it was who was doing that. Come to think of it, she
      didn't even know if the spell would end if its caster died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Screw that, she decided. She had time to do one thing, and that
      one thing didn't necessarily need to keep her from dying. All she
      needed to do was distract them, and hope that Lyndon—if she was
      still alive—could take it from there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona ripped a flashbang grenade from her vest and tossed it in
      the general direction of the cluster of dark wizards and
      witches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stun grenade would certainly daze the murderers into
      inaction. They would be disoriented, blind, and deaf. Using magic
      or Disapparating would be impossible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the winning move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only problem, a teeny little glitch in the overall plan, was
      that the grenade had a two-second fuse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona estimated that it only took about a second, a second and a
      half tops, to cast a killing curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Avada Kedav—</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A gun roared once, twice, three times.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Here's the thing about gunshots. All loud noises, really. Unless
      you're used to them—and it's <em class="calibre8">very</em> hard to get used to
      them—it's extremely difficult not to look around for their source
      when you hear one. At the very least, its nigh-impossible not to
      flinch, even a little. It's a hindbrain response, a gut instinct.
      You can't avoid it just by being tough or menacing, you have to be
      trained to be used to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Fiona would bet her life—<em class="calibre8">was</em> betting her life,
      really—that not one of these Ringwraith-wannabes had ever had their
      headgear slip on the firing range.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A little flinch. But when all you're aiming with is a wand that
      weighs an ounce or two at the largest and your hand is already
      shaking from adrenaline and panting and two of your comrades had
      just died in front of you and its dark and beneath everything
      you're scared...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, sometimes a little flinch is all it takes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">—ra!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona kicked the dead wizard from off of her and dived left,
      landing in a roll. She could tell by the fact that she was still
      alive that the death curses had missed her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona had a split-second to remember to slam her eyes shut and
      cover her ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the world went white.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistake three," Milo held up a third finger. He had to use his
      left hand to support his right, now. "Hermione Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron?" Hermione called out tentatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her left arm hurt. It hurt so much that simply saying 'it hurt'
      seemed laughably inaccurate. It really, <em class="calibre8">really</em> hurt. The
      pain in her arm was her whole world. She suspected she'd been hit
      by one of the falling rocks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes?" Draco stammered back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about you run and get help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Judging by the footsteps, Draco was gone faster than the snacks
      at a ten-year Hufflepuff reunion party. Hermione wanted nothing
      more than to follow him, but that would leave Ron and Harry to the
      creature. Assuming, of course, they were alive. She only had Milo's
      increasingly-suspicious word that the <em class="calibre8">Snake Sigil</em> spell
      was harmless, and she had no idea what had happened to Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mordy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you still know where the Cloak is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak squeak." Curses. It probably wound up buried, or worse,
      wrapped around a rock or something. It could take hours to find, if
      so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any more of those knuts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeak squeak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Figures. You got anything else up your sle—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">SQUEAK SQUEAK SQUEAK</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The monster moved. Clearly, it had finally freed itself from the
      mountain of rubble Mordy had dropped on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A creature as big as this one seemed—and Hermione really was
      just guessing here; she'd obviously never seen it—would likely have
      a hard time manoeuvring in the narrow hallway. Its speed wouldn't
      help it, then. Actually, it might work against it: there was every
      possibility it would keep moving past her for a second or two if
      she could just avoid its initial charge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, panicking, decided to roll to the left, which was sort
      of a mixed bag as it turned out. On the one hand, she was still
      alive, which meant she'd avoided the monster. On the other hand,
      she'd placed the weight of her whole body on her injured limb,
      which was bad. Really bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione screamed and clutched her shoulder reflexively, which
      just seemed to make things worse. The rest of the world seemed
      distant, unimportant, compared to the agony of her arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time she'd managed to refocus, she'd already squandered
      her brief advantage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The basilisk—she was pretty certain that's what it was, it being
      obvious if you ignored everything Milo had said—was coming back
      towards her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Panicked, she reached about with her good arm for something,
      anything, with which to defend herself. It was futile, she knew,
      but what else could she do?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could smell the creature, now. A foul stench of death and
      decay mixed with an open cesspool that made her want to gag.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt a crushing weight on her legs as it slithered on top of
      her, its hot, damp breath smelling of rotten meat. It hissed
      something unintelligible in Parseltongue, wrapping her up in its
      coils. She could imagine its hooked, fanged maw opening up to
      swallow her like a mouse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her hand grasped something cold, round, and heavy. She had no
      idea what it was, but she swung with everything she could, putting
      her whole body into it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Snickersnack!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione barely felt any resistance at all. The hissing stopped,
      followed by a pair of heavy thuds. Hermione shuffled out from under
      the still snake, finally daring to open her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The basilisk was dead. Really, incredibly dead. She doubted, in
      fact, that anything could possibly be <em class="calibre8">more</em> dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Its head was completely severed from its body; scales, flesh,
      and bone sheared through like a knife through warm cliché.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In her right hand, she held a ridiculously ornate sword. Its
      golden hilt was studded with rubies, and its blade shone like
      silver. It belonged in a museum, or, frankly, on the Queen's wall.
      A clinical, investigative part of her brain noted idly that its
      handle must have been enchanted—it didn't slip despite her hand
      being coated in sweat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She recognized it, of course. There was a picture of the Sword
      of Godric Gryffindor in the chapter headings of <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: A
      History</em>. She remembered thinking that it must have been an
      artist taking liberties; no non-ceremonial weapon would be so...
      garish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clearly, she'd been wrong. It had cut through the basilisk so
      cleanly that there wasn't even any blood on the blade. It was like
      Slytherin's Monster had only realized it was dead afterwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Where in Merlin's name had it come from?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She tabled that mystery for later, first going to check on Ron
      and Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was, as Ron said, trapped in the telltale amber force
      field of Milo's <em class="calibre8">Sepia Snake Sigil</em>. This meant,
      horrifyingly, that he would miss the Charms exam next week—assuming
      the spell would actually end when Milo said it would. Milo... she'd
      deal with him, later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron was sprawled across the floor, an ugly welt on his head. He
      was breathing, but apparently unconscious. He could have serious
      internal injuries or a fractured skull, but Hermione wasn't certain
      either how to check or what she should do if he did, so decided to
      wait for Madam Pomfrey to handle it if Draco ever actually returned
      with help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordy was sniffing the sword curiously. He was so coated in dust
      that he looked gray rather than brown. He looked slightly battered,
      but otherwise fine. Hermione wasn't particularly
      worried—Mordenkainen worked like Milo did. As long as he wasn't
      actually dead, he'd recover in a few days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At some point, she'd have to find her wand, the Invisibility
      Cloak, give the Sword of Godric Gryffindor to the proper
      authorities, and explain why there was a schoolbus-sized dead snake
      in the hallway, but first, she decided, lying down seemed
      <em class="calibre8">very</em> attractive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistake four," Milo said. He couldn't even raise his hand,
      anymore. "Your last mistake. And it's a big one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle kicked Milo squarely in the stomach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what could that possibly be?" he asked, his wand pointed at
      Milo's forehead. "What mistake could I have possibly made that will
      save you, now? The process is almost complete. Your soul is mine.
      All I have to do is finish you off, and I will be free, and you
      will be dead. You are alone. You have no weapons, no magic, no
      tricks, no power, and no friends. You are completely, utterly,
      pathetically helpless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned. "You'll see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle shrugged. "<em class="calibre8">Crucio</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There is no adequate way to convey what the Cruciatus Curse
      feels like, because it doesn't feel <em class="calibre8">like</em> anything. It's
      easy to describe what a burn feels like because most people
      <em class="calibre8">know</em> what it feels like. Anyone who's learned to cook know
      the feeling when some boiling hot water or oil flies out of the pot
      and sears your arm. Anyone who's fallen on concrete knows what a
      skinned knee feels like.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Nobody</em> who hasn't experienced the Cruciatus Curse
      firsthand—fortunately, a very small pool of people—can imagine what
      it feels like.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Cruciatus Curse isn't, for example, the physical equivalent
      of being cursed with the last breath of a dying loved one. It isn't
      that because it's quite possible for the human brain to imagine
      what that feels like with a reasonable degree of accuracy,
      extrapolating from past experiences. And it isn't like being slowly
      dipped into boiling hot water, or like being lit on fire, because
      massive physical trauma will eventually sever nerve connections. At
      the very least, they will eventually cease functioning as intended.
      The Cruciatus Curse will keep your nerves functioning
      <em class="calibre8">perfectly</em> for the duration. The Cruciatus Curse causes the
      Platonic ideal of pain. All other pains are but imperfect
      approximations of what the Cruciatus Curse can cause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But for all of that, it's only pain, and pain is only a feeling.
      Pain is a signal from your nerves to your brain for your benefit.
      It is to teach you that what you were doing was stupid, and you
      shouldn't do it again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But people knew that, and it doesn't stop them from giving in to
      pain. People betray families, ideals, and nations to escape pain.
      But those are the people of this world, this plane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To the people of Milo's world, pain is something else
      entirely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some feelings are <em class="calibre8">real</em>. Fear is real, and it could make
      or break battles. Exhaustion is real. Courage is real, and is a
      Bard's most powerful weapon. Temperature, hunger, and thirst are
      real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But pain? Pain is imaginary. There is no status effect called
      'Pain'. One of the few spells that weaponizes pain, <em class="calibre8">Symbol of
      Pain</em>, is deadly not for the torment it causes, but the hefty
      penalty to attack rolls it imposes. Pain isn't even fluff. Pain is
      <em class="calibre8">less</em> than fluff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pain is <em class="calibre8">roleplaying</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shut down the part of his character that cared about pain
      for the moment. The agony was still there, but it simple ceased to
      matter. He stopped thrashing around on the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Crucio</em>," he cast again. "<em class="calibre8">CRUCIO</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Free of the pain, Milo was able to consider his plan. It was a
      gamble, but if it worked, it would be Riddle's death blow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was memory. This was all about memory. Riddle was a memory,
      and he was controlling Milo through his memories. Milo's memories
      were malleable; they could, demonstrably, be removed and altered.
      Riddle could make Milo forget his memorized spells (or, and Milo
      found this more likely but less glamorous, make him repeatedly cast
      them at the wall until they were gone and then make him
      forget).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But there was a part of every adventurer's memories that were
      sacred, and no force in the multiverse could affect them. The gods
      couldn't touch it, and not even the Destiny Manipulator had any
      power there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The greatest weapon of adventurers is not their weapons, or
      their magic, or their skills, their feats, their powers, or their
      class features.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is their backstory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There are constraints on a backstory. A backstory cannot grant
      any information not represented by the appropriate Knowledge skill,
      a backstory cannot grant any possessions beyond starting gold, and
      a backstory cannot grant followers beyond those attainable by
      Leadership.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But a backstory can do pretty much <em class="calibre8">anything</em> else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As long as it happened before he became an adventurer, Milo
      could remember pretty much whatever he wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle was preparing to cast his death curse, but that didn't
      matter to Milo. If talking is a free action, then thinking sure as
      hell is.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter defeated the greatest dark wizard that ever lived
      using his backstory, and right now, Milo was in a position to do
      exactly the same thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All it would cost him is his mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All Milo needed to do was <em class="calibre8">remember</em> that his mother had
      given her life to save him from a dark wizard, and he was
      protected, the same as Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He might even 'remember' that he had a cool, magic scar.
      Adventurers <em class="calibre8">love</em> cool scars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That would be all it took. If Milo did that, he would walk away
      from this unscathed, and Voldemort would once more be defeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My mother..." Milo said. Or tried to, anyway. His throat felt
      terribly weak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All it would cost him was something he didn't really have to
      begin with. Unless he specifically remembered doing so, he
      effectively had no family. It wasn't as if was <em class="calibre8">sacrificing</em>
      anything. It wasn't as if he was killing her, was it? For all
      intents and purposes, she didn't even exist, yet. Most adventurers
      were orphans, or missing at least one parent. It wasn't like Milo
      would be unusual in that regard. It was easier, that way. Fewer
      names to think of for one's backstory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that?" Riddle asked. "Crying for your mother already,
      are we? I'm terribly disappointed. Not surprised, mind. But
      disappointed." Riddle—no, Voldemort—pinned Milo to the ground with
      his foot and pointed his wand directly at Milo's forehead. "No
      matter. Stoic or begging, It's all the same once I kill you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo knew what he had to do. It was the smart thing to do. The
      rational thing to do. The <em class="calibre8">optimal</em> thing to do. What was
      one semi-existent life in comparison to the death and destruction
      that a second Voldemort would wreak? The choice was obvious, after
      weighing the pros and cons for even a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo cleared his throat. He could taste blood. "My mother is a
      baker." A baker. That was good. It explained Milo's newfound
      obsession with sweets. "Her name is Ley Amastacia, and she's famed
      far and wide for her gourmet desserts." He was new at this.
      Untested. "She's a retired Wizard, but she refuses to use magic to
      assist in her baking. She says she likes it better that way, that
      using magic ruins the fun of it. Besides, she wants to be able to
      say she's the best without resorting to performance-enhancing
      spells. It's something I never understood until right now. But none
      of that's what's important. The important thing is she's
      <em class="calibre8">happy</em>. She misses me, but she's got my dad, my brothers,
      and my sisters. She's happy. She's really, incredibly, obnoxiously
      happy and there's not a <em class="calibre8">damn thing</em> you can do about
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fascinating," Voldemort said. "<em class="calibre8">Avada Kedavra</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> Yes, this <em class="calibre8">is</em> the end
      of Part Two (saving an Epilogue, coming soon), but <em class="calibre8">no</em>, it
      is not the end of Milo's adventures or of Harry Potter and the
      Natural 20. Stay tuned for Part Three, tentatively named <em class="calibre8">Harry
      Potter and the Save-Or-Die</em>, coming in Summer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One fundamental flaw with traditional paper novels is that you
      always know exactly how close you are to the end of the book,
      simply by virtue of there being few pages left. In that sense, it
      was refreshing to write in a medium such as this, because the end
      could be a surprise (especially because HP books traditionally end
      in early summer/late spring, not early winter).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank everybody for the awesome reviews, kind
      PMs, suggestions, and support! You guys are just about the best
      community of readers an author could ask for. It was especially fun
      seeing people's reactions to some of Milo's more obvious
      Possession-induced fumbles and their guesses as to why he would be
      acting that way. I branched out a little further from canon in this
      book, adding in a subplot with original characters (always a risk
      in any fan work), but I think it worked out overall, so don't be
      surprised if things diverge a little further in the future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">tl;dr:</strong> You guys are awesome and should feel
      awesome. Epilogue and sequel coming soon.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
