<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 53: CC Epilogue: Awakenings, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20: Epilogue, Awakenings</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione realized she'd been staring at the unfamiliar ceiling
      for several hours without properly registering it. Or possibly
      several seconds. Or maybe she'd dreamed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Waking up is like that, sometimes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that she discovered that quite literally
      <em class="calibre8">everything</em> hurt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She made an undignified groan, and realized she was in the
      hospital wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning to you, too," a voice said brightly. She
      recognized it immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore?" Hermione asked. The smiling Headmaster
      was sitting on a stool by her cot, an expression on his face that
      she couldn't quite place. "Wh—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, first, may I make a correction, and then a request?"
      Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er. Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not, strictly speaking, a professor at the moment,"
      Dumbledore said, "meaning you are perfectly free to call me Albus."
      Hermione shuddered inwardly. There was absolutely no way she would
      ever refer to the Headmaster by his first name. She'd ignore
      homework to play Quidditch, first. She felt unclean just thinking
      about it. "Secondly, a request: I'm not, ah, shall we say,
      technically <em class="calibre8">allowed</em> to be here presently. This is
      something of an infiltration, as it were. So I would greatly
      appreciate it if questions were kept to a minimum. In return, as I
      am a strong believer in fair exchange, I shall, likewise, keep my
      answers to a minimum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good. I'm glad we can see eye-to-eye on this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. Hm. That's quite a <em class="calibre8">big</em> question. If by 'what
      happened,' you meant, 'what happened just now,' the answer would be
      that we were just engaging in a dialogue refreshingly free of the
      typical student-teacher formality that has so characterized our
      past interactions. If you meant 'what happened' in the broader
      meaning of the word, I would say that the Earth is continuing its
      merry journey around the Sun, twirling about like a graceful garden
      gnome on its way. But if you meant, 'what happened while I was
      unconscious,' well, it's quite a long story. And not all of it is
      good news, I'm afraid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then start with the good news, Prof—er, Mr. Dumbledore?"
      Hermione suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The eight missing children are, blessedly, safe," Dumbledore
      said. "It seems our photogenic Defence Professor had been
      investigating the issue on the side, located the house they were
      being kept in, and heroically rescued them himself. It's all the
      more impressive considering I was, of course, attempting precisely
      the same thing in my newfound spare time. Alas, but it appears I do
      not have the makings of an investigator. The Ministry snapped him
      up shortly after, and he's now working for them as an Obliviator. A
      curious position for a man of his apparent talents, but I'm told he
      requested it specifically. The important thing, of course, is that
      Hogwarts' missing children have been found."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fantastic!" Hermione said. "Are they all right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfectly fine. They seem to have no memory of anything after
      being nabbed in the grounds, mostly near the Forest. They're with
      their respective families at the moment, but should be fit to
      return to school next week. Sadly, so many students will be absent
      that Flitwick has had no choice but to cancel his Charms exam next
      week. He was quite looking forward to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, that was three afternoons' worth of studying that Hermione
      would never get back. She gritted her teeth and pressed on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about the Sword?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And to which sword would you be referring?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Sword of Godric Gryffindor! What happened to it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is <em class="calibre8">that</em> what you used to kill Slytherin's Monster?"
      Dumbledore mused. "Most impressive. It only appears for a true
      Gryffindor in times of direst need, you realize. When Draco Malfoy
      returned with Acting Headmaster Snape, it was nowhere to be seen.
      There was quite a bit of disagreement as to how a Basilisk came to
      be so... <em class="calibre8">thoroughly</em> decapitated in the halls of the
      school. <em class="calibre8">Most</em> impressive. Not surprising, of course—the
      Sorting Hat makes its choices for a reason—but extremely impressive
      nonetheless. Remarkable, in fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about Ron and Harry?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both perfectly fine. Mr. Weasley is recovering in the cot just
      across from you, in fact. Mr. Potter, on the other hand, is still
      in the hallway trapped in a mysterious magical field. Which brings
      me to the sad part of the story." It was then that Hermione
      recognized Dumbledore's expression. It was one that she hadn't ever
      seen on him. It was pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona realized she'd been staring at the unfamiliar ceiling for
      several hours without properly registering it. Or possibly several
      seconds. Or maybe she'd dreamed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Waking up is like that, sometimes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was lying in an uncomfortable bed in a room that reeked of
      disinfectant. <em class="calibre8">A hospital, then</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could hear the rustling of paper on paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" she asked. Her throat felt dry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're awake!" It was Evan Travis. She rolled her head to the
      side, and found him putting down a newspaper. She caught the first
      two words from front page headline: LONDON MASSACRE.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, yeah. That.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Fiona asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were shot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, really?" She asked. "Where?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Left leg, just above the knee," Travis answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never even noticed," she said. "Go figure. Is it bad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got shot. When is it ever <em class="calibre8">not</em> bad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what I mean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It didn't hit an artery. Doctors say you'll <em class="calibre8">probably</em>
      make a full recovery, but it'll take a while and it'll suck,
      basically. Best find a cane you like and get used to it. You'll
      need to ask a doc for more, they wouldn't tell us no matter how
      much Hannigan shouted. Something about not being close family.
      We've had someone here keeping an eye on you in case... well, in
      case one of <em class="calibre8">them</em> came for you. We figure it's only a
      matter of time. Hannigan would have been here too, but... Ah.
      There's been an inquiry, of sorts. He's being questioned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An inquiry. Hooboy. They all knew that at some point they'd have
      to pay for their repeated and flagrant disregard for the rules, but
      Fiona had hoped that when it came to that, they'd at least have a
      suspect in custody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Best hit me with all the bad news, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you used the stunner, the door suddenly gave. We stormed
      the place, but the, ah, <em class="calibre8">suspects</em> got away. Poof, they were
      gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So breaking their concentration <em class="calibre8">did</em> end the spell.
      Fiona filed that bit of information away for future use.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, even Carrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on, I'll get there. When we finally got Baldwin to pull
      himself together and talk, he said he'd just found a side room not
      on the map and investigated it. That's where they got him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not on the map? But we had the architectural plans! That's
      impossible!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Funny thing," Travis said, "when he tried to sketch it for us
      later, he couldn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean, he couldn't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He just couldn't. The pen wouldn't draw on the page. We went
      through a dozen pens and as many pencils, even a bloody crayon, and
      none of them worked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he still... bewitched, then, do you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah. When he described it, none of us could draw it. I think
      they did something to the room, somehow, not to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So these wizards were hiding out in the secret room?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not just them," Travis said. "And here's where we get to the
      good news. Well, good-ish. They found the kids."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What kids?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The missing magic kids. They were in Baldwin's magic room. All
      but one, anyway. They were tied up and blindfolded, but were
      otherwise in perfect shape. But... they vanished the second we
      turned our backs on them. We had an armed guard on them and
      everything, but nobody saw a thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kidnapped again?" Fiona asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Dammit</em>!" she said, slamming her elbow into the thin
      mattress. "One step forward, two steps back. At least we got
      Carrow." Fiona narrowed her eyes. "We <em class="calibre8">did</em> get Carrow,
      didn't we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. About that..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Out with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While we were checking on the kids, he... changed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Changed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right before our very eyes. One second he was a stone-cold
      killer, the next he was a kid. One of the missing kids, actually.
      That Finnigan one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where is he now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vanished with the others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what did we really accomplish?" Fiona asked. "Good men and
      women died, for what? No suspects in custody, no real evidence
      found. No <em class="calibre8">nothing</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis shrugged. "I wouldn't say that. We know that despite what
      the wizarding books say, they have an explicitly anti-Muggle
      faction still operating at large. We know they <em class="calibre8">can</em> be
      beaten. Besides, there's <em class="calibre8">some</em> good news."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cooper's still in surgery, but prognosis is good, last I heard.
      And Lyndon made it out just fine; she was here until about an hour
      or so ago. She left to go to the service."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The service?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The memorial. For the others. Nothing big or official, really.
      There's no good PR to be had making a big show of this. As far as
      the public was concerned, this was the biggest policing fiasco of
      the decade. Heads are going to roll." Travis looked
      uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona knew what he wasn't saying: <em class="calibre8">so you'd best update your
      resume</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We knew that was going to be a possibility—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a knock on the door. Fiona and Travis traded a
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In walked a man with golden hair and a pearly smile. It was the
      sort of smile that would get a <em class="calibre8">ping!</em> sound effect in a
      cartoon to highlight just how shiny it was. He wore an
      expensive-looking, tailored suit and loafers polished to be almost
      as bright as his teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked a little like Kenneth Branagh, actually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello," he said pleasantly. "I'm—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gilderoy Lockhart," Fiona said through clenched teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart smiled happily. "I hadn't realized that my fame had
      spread quite <em class="calibre8">that</em> far, but, again, why shouldn't it have?
      Of course even the Muggles know who I am. Then you know why I'm
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a pretty good idea," Fiona said. "Cleaning up the last
      of the loose ends?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Precisely," Lockhart smiled again, smoothly drawing a wand.
      "I'm sure you'll be happy to know that the children are safe.
      They're going to give me a medal for rescuing them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, that was something, at least. The children were in the
      hands of their government, not their criminals. A minor victory, if
      lacking in recognition. Not that, in all likelihood, Fiona was
      going to remember it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How'd you catch us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a friendly mediwitch at St Mungo's who told me the
      other night that a few of Lucius's old friends checked in with some
      very <em class="calibre8">peculiar</em> injuries. Anyway, I have a little more
      experience with Muggles than some of my comrades, and it was a
      simple matter to cross-reference the Muggle-related injuries with
      the Obliviator's files on certain highly-persistent... ah, what am
      I saying? Look at me gabbing on, terribly rude. It's not as if
      you'll remember any of this, anyway. Now, what would you me to
      replace your memories with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me kicking Kenneth Branagh posters in their smug faces
      repeatedly," Fiona spat. "With steel-toed boots."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart's smile froze briefly. Then he shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Oblivio</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The official word was that Milo Amastacia-Liadon, an orphan
      barely in control of his childhood-style accidental wandless magic,
      had run off from Hogwarts on his own accord. After the massive
      cleanup operation that the battle with the basilisk necessitated,
      it was discovered that his bed was made (for the first time since
      he'd arrived), and all of his possessions had vanished from their
      drawers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Similarly, the mysterious person of unknown identity disguised
      as Seamus Finnigan who had been trapped in the Gryffindor Common
      Room was also nowhere to be found. The ensuing manhunt led to
      nothing but dead ends; no-one was able to produce any proof of the
      identity of the mysterious trapped man. In the end, it was chocked
      up to general Hogwarts-related-weirdness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart received an Order of Merlin, First Class for
      his daring rescue of the eight missing Hogwarts children, and,
      after demonstrating his prodigious talents with Memory Charms, was
      put in charge of the Ministry's Obliviators after their previous
      leader, Arnold Peasegood, resigned after a stress-induced nervous
      breakdown. Some questioned why so illustrious a wizard would settle
      for something as mundane as a government job, or why he resigned
      from Hogwarts halfway through a school year, but no consistent
      answer was ever to be had from Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sketches of the missing boy—no photographs, magical or
      otherwise, could be found of him—were distributed throughout
      Magical Britain in newspapers and posters. Aside from that, very
      little effort was made to find him. He existed on no public
      records, he had no known next of kin, and as a result nobody was
      quite sure who was responsible for finding him. Everyone simply
      assumed that, sooner or later, he'd use his magic and the Ministry
      would detect him in the same way that they caught all other users
      of unauthorized underaged magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Missing. That's what the papers said, and it's what the general
      public believed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it's not what Dumbledore said, and it's not what Hermione
      believed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because they had a piece of evidence that the rest of the
      wizarding world didn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mordenkainen happily ran in the red plastic wheel of his small
      rat cage by the window. He'd long since chewed and struggled his
      way out of the magical apparel Milo had made for him. They couldn't
      let him out of the cage; he tried to make a run for it, biting
      anyone who got too close. All evidence suggested he was a
      completely ordinary, feral rat picked up from the streets
      somewhere. Even Ron's decrepit rat, Scabbers, seemed more
      intelligent by comparison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione remembered that, once before, Milo had tried to explain
      the concept of a familiar to her. He'd said that, in many ways, a
      familiar and its master were the same entity, split into two
      bodies. As the master grew stronger, so did the familiar. If the
      familiar died, the master was greatly weakened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he'd also said that nobody really knew what happened to the
      familiar when its master died. Nobody had ever cared to find
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The squeaking of the wheel stopped. Hermione glanced over at
      Mordy, who was sitting perfectly still, staring through the white
      bars of his cage and out the window into the Hogwarts grounds. It
      might have just been her imagination, but it seemed as if he was
      waiting for someone to come back to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy set down his quill and waited for the ink to dry.
      He was inches away from having Snape's title—Acting
      Headmaster—simplified by one inconvenient word. All he needed was
      to exert a hair more pressure on some of the more moderate members
      of the Hogwarts Board of Governors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once he had the education of the entire future generation of
      wizards and witches in his hands, all he would need was time. He
      could subtly shape their thoughts and view of the world, and it
      would be a simple matter to make certain that some of the new
      graduates most amenable to the Malfoy way were fast-tracked into
      middling-to-powerful positions in the Ministry. By the time any of
      Dumbledore's supporters realized what had happened, it would be too
      late. That was something that neither Dumbledore nor the late Dark
      Lord had ever really understood. The Dark Lord always viewed the
      Ministry as an enemy to be defeated with force and deceit, and
      Dumbledore never paid it much mind to begin with, turning down a
      powerful political position in favour being Headmaster. But the
      system existed, and it pervaded every aspect of ordinary life in
      Magical Britain. The one who controlled the system controlled
      <em class="calibre8">everything</em>. Time had already shown Lucius to be victor.
      The Dark Lord was dead, and Hogwarts was no longer in Dumbledore's
      hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only a matter of time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius neatly folded the parchment, and was just about to stuff
      it into an envelope when he heard the distinctive popping sound of
      an Apparating wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He drew his wand beneath his heavy wooden desk, ready to spring
      into action, if necessary. Outright combat wasn't his preferred way
      of doing things, but if this mysterious visitor had violence on
      their minds, they would likely as not never be seen nor heard from
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lights flickered out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who's there?" Lucius asked. "Show yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, Lucius," a voice said smoothly. It was a voice like goblin
      steel cutting silk. Soft, clean, and deadly all at the same time.
      It was a voice that Lucius Malfoy had hoped to never hear again.
      "That's no way to greet an old friend, now is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the voice of the Dark Lord Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona awoke in her bed with a strange feeling well-known to
      anyone who has ever been jolted awake by dream-tripping on the
      dream-sidewalk. She spent a few seconds taking deep breaths to calm
      her racing heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hate those," she muttered to herself, then checked her
      alarm clock:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">6:30</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With an irritated grumble, she rolled over to try and go back to
      sleep. She'd woken up at 6:30 every day for so long that, now that
      she no longer had anywhere in particular to be every morning, she
      couldn't break the habit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After an unsuccessful ten minutes of trying to fall back to
      sleep, she rolled out of bed painfully and limped to the kitchen.
      If being on leave messed with her morning routine, being a cripple
      destroyed it. It took her more than twice as long to do even basic
      tasks with her limp as it had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time she'd showered, had breakfast, fed Sprocket, grabbed
      her vacuum flask full of tea, her walkman, and left, it was already
      7:30, which, in her books, was practically afternoon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite being on leave—allegedly for her injury, but really as a
      reprimand for the fiasco that was the drug bust—she couldn't help
      but follow her routine. She'd been programmed like a robot. She
      told herself that she was just walking to the station to get a
      little fresh air and stretch after being bed-ridden for so
      long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She awkwardly put her headphones on, fumbling the unfamiliar
      cane in one hand and the walkman, tape, and headphones in the
      other. She eventually had to lean the cane, and herself, against
      the brick wall of her building to manage it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona started as, rather than that of Mick Jagger, she heard her
      own voice through the speakers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you know why you're hearing yourself speak, hold
      fast-forward for thirty seconds. No? Still here? Damn, they got you
      again. Well, anyway, here's what's going on..."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
