<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 40: CC 7: A Head Full of Hot Heir, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: A Head Full of Hot Heir</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> Individual or individuals
      unknown are using <em class="calibre8">every</em> variant of "SirPoley," "Sir
      Poley," "Sir_Poley," " ," etc. as an Xbox Live gamer tag. I'm "The
      Sir Poley" as a result, but I'm not thrilled about it. If you see
      one of these elusive "Sir Poley" imitators out there on Halo or
      Call of Duty, show 'em what I think about doppelgangers. <em class="calibre8">Even
      if they're on your team</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grumblegrumblegrumble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Milo said. He, Harry, Ron, and Hermione had pushed
      several desks together in an abandoned classroom to form an ad-hoc
      war room. A few snacks and drinks, liberated from the leftovers of
      the Sorting Feast, were scattered across the table. "I trust
      yesterday's incident has put to rest any speculation that this
      would be an ordinary school year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent. I believe it is time for us to update the Plot."
      Once again, he had cast <em class="calibre8">Silent Image</em> ahead of time, so it
      simply appeared with a magic-y looking wave of his hand. "The way I
      see it, we have a very definite Evil Plot going on right under our
      noses. I've already taken the liberty of drawing up a list of
      suspects. There are a limited number of creatures that are capable
      of causing Petrification—in my world, in any case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Petrification?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Being frozen," Hermione explained. "All of your muscles lock up
      and you are put in a comatose state."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For how long?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Permanently. Your body is in complete lockdown, and doesn't age
      or get hungry or thirsty or anything. With some magical protection
      against the elements, you could stay that way for centuries.
      There's only one known cure, and that's a potion made from mandrake
      roots."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which brings me to my second point. Petrification in this world
      more closely resembles Paralysis or heavy Dexterity drain in my
      world. Where I'm from, Petrification means getting turned
      completely to stone. This means that, once again, my knowledge will
      be partially correct at best. I can't take anything for granted.
      That's where you come in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How so?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll list off the most common creatures from my world which can
      cause Petrification, and you'll tell me what they do here, if they
      even exist. Of course, none of this is ruling out Dark Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Medusa?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She writes an advice column for the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em>,"
      Ron said. "But she's a witch, not a monster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was also a Gorgon named Medusa," Hermione added. "But
      that was thousands of years ago. She was said to be the most
      beautiful woman who ever lived, but, now that I think about it,
      there are a lot of 'most beautiful women who ever lived' in
      legends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A beautiful <em class="calibre8">Gorgon</em>?" Milo was aghast. "Who could ever
      find an eight-foot wrought-iron cow beautiful? Except a Rust
      Monster..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Gorgons are beautiful women with snakes for hair who can
      turn anyone who looks at them into stone," Hermione clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold up," Ron said thoughtfully. "If you get turned to stone
      when you look at them, how does anyone know that they're
      beautiful?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic," Hermione shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ugh," Milo said. "This is more complicated than I thought it
      would be. For some reason, your world calls Medusas Gorgons. What
      do you call your two-ton, eight-foot wrought-iron cows then?
      Pixies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dolores Umbridge," Hermione answered, completely
      straight-faced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well played. What about Basilisks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's a Basilisk?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A six-legged giant lizard thing that turns you to stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We haven't got any of those, either," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anything else you have that Petrifies people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing I can name off the top of my head," Hermione said. "But
      I'll have to do more research to say for sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What can you tell me about the Chamber of Secrets, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a lot. It's briefly mentioned in <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: A
      History</em>, though—but I thought you would know that, seeing as
      how you've read every book in the library?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still working my way through the Q's, actually," Milo said
      defensively. "You'd be surprised how prolific a writer Quinta
      Quirinia Quirrellia was, and reading with <em class="calibre8">Comprehend
      Languages</em> is such a pain. I had no idea that it didn't
      translate idioms—turns out everyone in my world uses the same ones.
      Incidentally, I think Quirrell might be the last scion to an
      ancient noble family. Who knew? In any case, I read it before I had
      ranks in Autohypnosis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever happened to Quirrell, anyway?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still in St. Mungo's," Ron answered. "Apparently he's in some
      sort of coma."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shame," Harry said. "I bet he knows all about whatever
      Voldemort's planning. Where were we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Chamber of Secrets," Hermione replied. "Apparently there was
      some disagreement between the four founders about what kind of
      students should be allowed to attend Hogwarts. Salazar Slytherin
      believed that only purebloods should be allowed to attend their
      school—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He would," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and he got into an argument with Godric Gryffindor about it.
      It ended with Salazar leaving Hogwarts—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably through the Astronomy Tower window," Ron
      snickered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—never to return. Legend has it that Slytherin built a secret
      room somewhere in the castle with a horror trapped inside that
      could only be opened by his heir." Hermione paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that it?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she said. "I was just waiting to see if Ron had any more
      <em class="calibre8">delightful</em> commentary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually," Ron said. "I was working on something brilliant
      involving Slytherins all being full of <em class="calibre8">hot heir</em>. Pure
      gold, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably one of your best yet," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks!" Ron beamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That wasn't a compliment. Anyway, the horror is supposed to
      purge Hogwarts of those Salazar Slytherin doesn't deem... fit to
      learn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Milo said. "Well, that confirms that Slytherin House has
      been evil right from the start, which, admittedly, is hardly a
      surprise. It also explains why the Chamber went after Peeves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could you imagine <em class="calibre8">anything</em> less worthy in someone like
      Salazar Slytherin's eyes than a creature that exists only to give
      people wedgies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Chamber could also be a distraction," Harry noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," agreed Ron. "Someone found something that could finally
      get Peeves what he deserved, and, in order to avoid getting
      caught—not that anyone would try too hard to find him, mind—he says
      the Chamber of Secrets did it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which brings up another question," Harry added. "What could a
      secret room possibly do to someone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clearly, Petrify them," Milo said. "You saw Peeves. Maybe it's
      <em class="calibre8">Animated</em>? Though it'd be a bit conspicuous if a big old
      ancient mysterious <em class="calibre8">room</em> was seen slinking down the second
      floor hallway after lunch. Maybe if it had a cunning disguise... a
      hat and false mustache, perhaps..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no," Hermione said. "It's a monster. There's a monster in
      the Chamber."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well, <em class="calibre8">obviously</em>," Milo said quickly. "I certainly
      never <em class="calibre8">seriously</em> entertained the notion that the Chamber
      tried to disguise itself as a student. Besides, how could a
      <em class="calibre8">room</em> buy a false mustache? Hah hah, heh heh, hah..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone stared at him for a long moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Anyway</em>. It's all just rumour, in any case," Hermione
      reminded them. "There have been countless thorough searches over
      the centuries for it, none of which had any success."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Ron said. "But... here's the thing. If it was just a
      rumour, right, why would there be, you know, <em class="calibre8">countless</em>
      thorough searches?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, wouldn't, you know, some Headmaster who was a little,
      well, <em class="calibre8">weird</em> go look for it once or twice, but... if nobody
      thought it was real, why did so many people look?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe for the same reason Muggles look for Bigfoot in North
      America?" Hermione suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're still wasting their time looking for Bigfoot?" Ron
      snorted. "Hah! Muggles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, most of them don't really think they'll find him. I think
      it's more of an excuse to go out camping."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should say they wouldn't," Ron said, still laughing. "He
      works for the Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nearly choked on his pumpkin juice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes, anyways," Milo said, desperately trying to keep the
      conversation on topic. "Thank you, Hermione, for that wonderful bit
      of exposition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're welcome," Hermione said happily. "Would you believe I
      almost left my copy of <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: A History</em> at home?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly?" Milo said, "No. So it's definitely a monster
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or a decoy," Harry added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. A monster or a decoy. Now, how do we figure out which is
      which?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A stakeout?" Ron suggested. "I'm sure if we asked, we'd find
      loads of volunteers willing to keep sentry duty. We <em class="calibre8">are</em> in
      the house of courage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great idea, except that pretty much every monster Milo and
      Hermione mentioned Petrifies <em class="calibre8">when you see it</em>," Harry
      countered. "So all we'd be doing is giving it easy access to
      victims."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we'll ask first-years to do it," Ron shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ron</em>!" Hermione said, aghast. "We do <em class="calibre8">not</em> use
      first-years as bait!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Calm down, Hermione, I meant <em class="calibre8">Slytherin</em> first-years. We
      could disguise ourselves as Slytherins, follow them to their Common
      Room—which would be useful for pranking purposes in the future in
      any case—and tell them that, in the name of Slytherin, they have to
      track down this monster in order to, I dunno, help it or
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfect!" Milo said. "And then all we have to do is follow the
      trail of Petrified Slytherins to its lair!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we're lucky," Harry said dreamily, "it'll make an exception
      and eat Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No</em>," Hermione said sharply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine, then," Milo said. "What do <em class="calibre8">you</em> suggest we
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We let <em class="calibre8">Professor</em> <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore</em>, the most
      powerful wizard of his generation, handle it. If we discover any
      information, we give it to him or Professor McGonagall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How does that result in Malfoy being eaten?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here's an idea," Milo said slowly. He could practically feel
      the gears whirring in his mind, like the Clockwork Nirvana of
      Mechanus. "The Chamber can <em class="calibre8">only</em> be opened by the heir of
      Slytherin, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"According to what I feel I must remind you is <em class="calibre8">legend</em>,"
      Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pft. When have you ever heard of a legend that wasn't true?
      Case in point: Bigfoot." Hermione muttered something under her
      breath, but it seemed somehow insincere to Milo. He began to wonder
      if she wasn't simply playing Pit Fiend's Advocate because she felt
      expected to. "So, under the <em class="calibre8">assumption</em> that the legend is
      true, only the heir of Slytherin can open the Chamber of Secrets
      and unleash the monster living inside. Correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's <em class="calibre8">probably</em> also safe to assume that there isn't an
      heir of Slytherin just kicking around in Hogwarts, <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      opening the Chamber of Secrets. Also correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Reasonable enough," Hermione said. "It would seem fairly
      improbable. Although, if you consider how many descendents he could
      have had in a thousand years and compare it to how many pureblooded
      wizards there really are in Magical Britain, it's entirely possible
      that Ron here is the heir of Slytherin—or at least, one of several
      thousand. Unless they mean his <em class="calibre8">literal</em> heir, in which
      case, I'll have to do more research, but I'm <em class="calibre8">pretty</em> sure
      hereditary in that medieval England was by-and-large primogeniture,
      which narrows it down to non-muggleborn males."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you mean pureblooded?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I realized while speaking that not all of Slytherin's
      descendents over the centuries necessarily shared his
      prejudices."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could have been a muggleborn," Ron said, "if some Slytherin
      down the line had a squib for a daughter and that squib married a
      muggle bloke, had all-muggle kids, and a few generations later, one
      of them had a muggleborn wizard for a son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It gets worse," Harry said. "We don't know it doesn't refer to
      his, you know, <em class="calibre8">legal</em> heir. If one of Slytherin's heirs
      left everything he had—including the ability to open the Chamber—to
      someone he wasn't related to by blood, like say someone he
      adopted..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So basically," Hermione said, "it could be anyone at all. Well,
      except Milo. He's from another universe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we've got nothing?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "We've got <em class="calibre8">something</em>. I can cast a
      spell called <em class="calibre8">Scrying</em> that will let me spy on someone that
      I have at least secondhand knowledge of. I <em class="calibre8">don't</em> need to
      know their name. Normally this is useful to find out what that
      person is up to, but, in this case, I can just target the 'heir of
      Slytherin' and see what he—or she—looks like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Ron said. "If you could do that, why didn't you
      already?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it takes an hour," Milo said, "and it's not guaranteed to
      work. Also, I need a big expensive mirror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How expensive?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A thousand gold pieces—or, via salt, thirty-seven galleons,
      seven sickles, and eighteen knuts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a dismissive noise and shrugged. "I thought this was
      supposed to be a <em class="calibre8">problem</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo grinned. At the rate they were going, they'd have this
      adventure completed in a week.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peasegood sighed upon entering his office, staring at the
      mountain of reports on his desk. The funny thing about his desk was
      that, while the hardwood surface was <em class="calibre8">always</em> covered in
      urgent reports, empty coffee mugs, quills, and, in general, looked
      as if it was used as frequently as the head of any understaffed
      government organization's desk the world over, every single piece
      of parchment was oriented upside-down—facing the door instead of
      the chair. The chair, in fact, was pristine. Its leather surface
      shone in a cheaply expensive way that only a brand-new faux-ancient
      leather office chair could. Peasegood had never sat in that chair
      since he'd inherited the post after his predecessor snapped from
      the pressure. In fact, as far as he knew, <em class="calibre8">nobody</em> had ever
      sat in that chair. It was even possible that it really <em class="calibre8">was</em>
      an eighty-year-old leather chair in mint condition rather than the
      fake most people assumed it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peasegood set down his most recent empty mug on top of the
      others, adding to a precarious pyramid nearly as high he as he was,
      grabbed the top stack of urgent reports, and left his office the
      way he'd come in. A trail of sorts had been worn down the centre of
      the carpet up to the desk and back to the door; the rest was
      covered in a thin layer of dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's see," he said to himself, flipping through the thick
      stack of parchment. "A 'muggle with a red hat' saw the Abbots
      Apparating to their friend's home up in Rutland... Pixies loose in
      Cardiff... Ugh. Another one from Mad-Eye." He'd been pestering them
      to do everyone on the top 100 bestsellers in fantasy ever since the
      Fiction Crisis of 1990, when one of them somehow figured out about
      Hogwarts. He said it was the only way to be sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind him, Peasegood heard the characteristic <em class="calibre8">pop!</em> of
      a Disapparating wizard. Peasegood turned around to see Milton
      standing in the hallway, his robes tattered and soaked through.
      There was a time when Peasegood would have asked what happened, but
      that time had passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take these ones," Peasegood said, shoving half the stack into
      Milton's hands. "I'll do the rest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milton sighed wearily and looked at the reports. "A muggle
      policewoman reverted?" he asked, looking at the one from Miss Figg.
      "I hate having to do the same job twice. Ah, well. An Obliviator's
      work is never done." With another <em class="calibre8">pop</em>, he vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart lounged in a comfortable armchair in the Headmaster's
      office. The Headmaster had assembled the four Heads of Houses and
      himself to his office. He didn't actually <em class="calibre8">feel</em>
      comfortable—to the contrary, he was decidedly anxious—but he'd been
      in the business long enough to know how to fake it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The question remains," McGonagall said, "was this some variety
      of hoax, or is it real?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps it is neither," Flitwick added. "It could be an attack
      by Dark Wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In some ways it makes no difference," Snape said. "If we are
      not careful, they could close the school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't be serious," Lockhart said. "This is the oldest
      wizarding school in the <em class="calibre8">world</em>. They wouldn't close it over
      a <em class="calibre8">poltergeist</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hogwarts... does not always get the best PR," Flitwick said
      diplomatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's <em class="calibre8">The Prophet</em>," McGonagall said contemptuously.
      "They've had it out for the Headmaster since day one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have they?" Dumbledore asked, for all the world sounding like
      someone who had been told the governments of the world had been
      overthrown by ants. "But I was at their first public appearance. It
      was, as I recall, in a diner that made what were, perhaps, the most
      memorable banana pancakes of my career—you wouldn't
      <em class="calibre8">believe</em> what they tried to pass off as maple syrup. But I
      rather thought they took a shine to me when I gave their
      saxophonist a few pointers and he said to me, 'Albus, baby, you're
      one hep cat with supermurgitroid chops and zoot threads. Boys, I
      think we've got ourselves a hot plate in the mix.' Though I never
      was quite certain what he meant. Ah, well, I suppose one never can
      win them all..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall coughed pointedly. "No, <em class="calibre8">The</em> Daily
      <em class="calibre8">Prophet</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not the Louisiana-based Rhythm and Blues group?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, the newspaper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, that rag's had it in for me since day one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if it's <em class="calibre8">The Prophet</em> that's your problem,"
      Lockhart said, seizing his opportunity. "I might be able to help
      you out a bit there. You see, there's a lovely young witch I happen
      to be acquainted with who writes for that particular reporting
      establishment. If we act quickly enough, we might be able to...
      present this issue in a rather different light." Lockhart knew that
      a legitimate success here, mixed with his numerous false ones,
      would reinforce his position of being one of the group, something
      which he saw no reason not to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore frowned for a moment, thinking. "Very well," he said
      finally. "But on the condition that the article is, in fact, true.
      I will not have lies spread to the public on my behalf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, of course," Lockhart said. "I wouldn't dream of having it
      any other way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The larger matter, of course, is how we will deal with this
      issue—<em class="calibre8">not</em> how it appears to the wider world," Dumbledore
      said. "I would gladly give my reputation and position to protect
      the students of Hogwarts, or, indeed, most any other. So. We must
      discover if, in fact, this is a hoax, an attack, or legitimate, and
      then proceed to take proper action. I want everyone to keep their
      ears, eyes, and noses to the ground, peeled, and unstuffed,
      respectively. Until we have more information, I fear, our other
      options are limited. However, it is critical that we all do our
      best to prevent panic from breaking out among the students. In
      addition to stamping out rumours as they are found, I want the
      student clubs and organizations in full swing as quickly as
      possible—including, of course, Quidditch. Which reminds me;
      Gilderoy, your... predecessor began a Duelling Club last year that,
      due to his health concerns, was cancelled abruptly. Would you—if
      you have the time, of course—be so good as to continue where he
      left off?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you believe I was <em class="calibre8">just</em> about to suggest that
      very same idea?" Lockhart said. Truth be told, he <em class="calibre8">had</em> been
      meaning to start a Duelling Club. "Teaching the students to defend
      themselves is of upmost importance, especially considering recent
      events." It was also just the sort of thing that a legendary hero
      would do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Dumbledore said. "And that, I believe concludes
      this week's staff meeting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still think Hagrid would win," Seamus Finnigan protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a chance," Dean Thomas insisted. "But it's a fight I'd love
      to see." The two were walking by Hagrid's hut in the middle of an
      animated argument over the ins-and-outs of giant-on-giant
      combat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno. Has it got any sports in it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you kidding? Fencing, fighting, torture, revenge, giants,
      monsters, chases, escapes, true love, miracles..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seamus looked about to respond, but was interrupted by a shrill
      scream from the forest. The two blinked and hesitated for only a
      moment before their inner-Gryffindors took over. Wands out, they
      bravely entered the forest to see if anyone was in need of their
      help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, Hagrid—who had heard the scream, too, but
      had to finish feeding the still-jumpy thestrals (it was not
      considered wise to leave thestrals half-fed)—arrived to
      investigate, crossbow in hand and Fang in tow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show yerself," he called into the forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just us," Seamus called back. "We heard the scream, too, but
      didn't find anyone out here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeh alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Dean said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Glad ter hear it, but that was ruddy dangerous. Head back ter
      the castle sharpish; I'll look abou' just ter be sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two Gryffindors nodded and hurried up to Hogwarts.
      <em class="calibre8">Students these days</em>, Hagrid thought to himself. <em class="calibre8">No
      sense whatsoever. At least they're alright...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip:</strong> Launch Bolt (SpC 130) is 0th-level
      Sorc/Wiz spell that fires a bolt as if it had been launched from a
      light crossbow. Simple enough, right? Maybe useful in an emergency,
      but even then, what are the odds you have bolts <em class="calibre8">and</em> this
      spell prepared but no crossbow? However, the spell has hidden uses.
      The bolt can be substituted for a larger bolt—say a Gargantuan (8sp
      each, 4d6 damage) or Colossal one (16sp each, 6d6 damage) to create
      an ad hoc siege engine, albeit one with only an 80 ft range
      increment. Your DM would be well within his rights to disallow this
      particular trick, as always, though it's somewhat balanced by the
      need to carry a wagonload of siege ammo around with you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Enter Eschew Materials. The bolt fired is a <em class="calibre8">Material
      Component</em> of the spell, and as such is unneeded with the feat.
      Even without the above trick, this makes Launch Bolt the most
      damaging cantrip I've found at 1d8 (not exactly an impressive
      achievement, to be fair), but combined with the above trick, it
      becomes pretty much insane at low levels. Eschew Materials lets you
      ignore any material component worth 1gp or less, so the biggest you
      can fire is Gargantuan (8sp). But don't let that limit your
      creativity. The bolt can have any special properties you can come
      up with, as long as it's worth equal to or less than 1gp. That
      includes special materials (though you're barred from most Core
      materials, as even silver costs +2gp. So you pretty much only get
      Cold Iron).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Happy gaming!</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">EDIT:</strong> The Pratchett reference was <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      supposed to be about his Alzheimer's at all, but the fact that it
      is occasionally suggested that Discworld's Unseen University is
      based off of Hogwarts, despite appearing in Discworld books several
      years before Harry Potter was published. The joke I was making was
      that Pratchett really <em class="calibre8">did</em> discover the "real" Hogwarts and
      base the UU off of it, but that his memory was modified afterward.
      The connection to his disease, however, never crossed my mind. Now
      that it's been pointed out, I realize that the joke was in poor
      taste, and removed it. I'm so sorry about that.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
