<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 46: CC 13: Conspirators, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Conspirators</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Sunday mornings, unsurprisingly, were not a traditionally busy
      time for the Hog's Head Inn. Most of its clientele tended to be too
      busy sleeping off Saturday evening to do much more than (at best)
      order kippers, eggs, and prodigious amounts of coffee, pepper-up
      potion, and the establishment's signature hangover cure (coffee
      mixed with pepper-up potion).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This Sunday morning was something of an eccentric iconoclast in
      the world of Sunday mornings. Much to the irritation of those
      upstairs, the Hog's Head was packed with housecoat-wearing,
      <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em>-clutching, astonished, and, above all,
      <em class="calibre8">talkative</em> early risers, several of whom would be going
      home that day to their families, hexed for seven generations to
      have jaws that clicked by an irritated hag attempting to sleep in a
      room directly over the bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">These people were the worst sort of people that could be found
      in all the world: <em class="calibre8">morning people</em>. Today, they inflicted
      themselves upon humanity by asking each other inane questions to
      which they already knew the answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you see the paper?" one asked to a table of people, most of
      whom were holding said paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you heard?" asked another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It must be some sort of error," said a third stubbornly, "like
      when Skeeter ran that hatchet job on him in September."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean when, the next day, she issued a retraction saying
      that he was a wise, wonderful man who was simply sometimes
      misunderstood and would have the entire situation under control
      with help from the most talented wizards and witches the world had
      ever seen?" asked a fourth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said the third. "That time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That always struck me as a bit fishy," said the fourth. "First
      time she's ever written anything nice about anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My friend Agnes said her cousin Mable saw Rita Skeeter talking
      with Gilderoy Lockhart," said a fifth. "<em class="calibre8">In this very
      room</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During a lengthy tangent in which the party attempted to locate
      the seat that Lockhart had been sitting in (for 'historical
      purposes') and discussed putting up a poster, or, perhaps, a plaque
      above the door ('sitting-place of Gilderoy Lockhart the Great'),
      the doors slammed open, causing windows across the building to
      rattle noisily in their panes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you hear?" cried the slippers-and-housecoat-clad young man.
      "Dumbledore's been sacked!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," grumbled the barkeep for the thirteenth time that morning,
      wiping a dirty mug with an even dirtier cloth. "No, I haven't been.
      I'm self-employed. Entrepreneurial-like. Can't be sacked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not you, Aberforth," snapped the recent entrant, his jaws
      clicking annoyingly. "The <em class="calibre8">other</em> Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre8">him</em>," Aberforth said, as if he could barely
      remember the existence of the Dumbledore in question. "Yeah. Yeah,
      I heard." Then, after a lengthy silence, he added, "Shame."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everything made ready?" Inspector Hannigan asked. Fiona and
      Evan nodded. "Doors locked?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," Fiona replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blinds drawn?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Swept for bugs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir. Both insect and electronic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm," Hannigan frowned. "What about arachnids?" Fiona
      hesitated. "A joke. It was a joke." The three were meeting in a
      rarely-used subbasement under the old station. Nobody was quite
      certain what its purpose was, though a decrepit old chair lying in
      the corner and some suspicious stains suggested a rather nefarious
      history sometime in the city's past. Most people generally avoided
      it because of the damp and the rats, though it had become the home
      of a few large cardboard boxes full of paperwork. Fiona's partner,
      Evan Travis, had grudgingly spent all morning assembling a cheap
      table and a few chairs from IKEA. This had gone relatively
      successfully, which was to say, one of the chairs had (somehow)
      been assembled inside-out and the table was precariously slanted.
      "So," Hannigan said, leaning forward, "what have we got?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As far as we can tell," Fiona began, "everything that's
      happened so far started with an encounter at Number 4, Privet
      Drive, the residence of one Vernon and Petunia Dursley, as well as
      their son Dudley." As she mentioned each name, she pulled a
      full-sized photograph of each individual from a manila envelope and
      placed them on the pine-veneer table surface. Dudley's had been
      appropriated from his school, but the pictures of Vernon and
      Petunia had been taken with a telephoto lens from afar. "As near as
      we can tell, there is absolutely <em class="calibre8">nothing</em> out of the
      ordinary on any of these individuals. Vernon is employed as a
      director at a firm by the name of Grunnings, which makes
      drills—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ruddy useless drills," Travis muttered. He'd given up trying to
      make the predrilled dowel holes line up and had tried to make his
      own. The drill—one of Grunnings' latest models—had sawn five
      centimetres of table leg clean off when it kicked violently in the
      process.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Petunia seems to be a stay-at-home mother, while Dudley attends
      a private school named Smeltings. Everything seems ordinary—except
      that the Dursleys are <em class="calibre8">not</em> the only residents of Number 4,
      Privet Drive." Fiona placed a fourth photograph on the table, this
      one of a young boy with messy brown hair, brilliant green eyes, and
      a distinctive lightning scar on his forehead. Fiona nodded to
      Travis, who had handled this part of the investigation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, sir," Travis said nervously. He didn't often speak with
      the inspector personally. "They appear to have one Harry Potter
      under their protection, apparently their nephew. There's, well,
      there's not much on him on file. Anywhere. I had to really dig to
      find any information at all. Seems he attended a series of private
      and public schools until last year, when, near as we can tell, he
      disappeared completely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean, 'disappeared'?" Hannigan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was to attend Stonewall High, but at the last minute before
      start of term, the Dursleys called and informed the principal there
      that Harry would instead be attending a St. Brutus's Secure Centre
      for Incurably Criminal Boys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry a delinquent, then?" Hannigan asked. "Doesn't look much
      like one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, here's the thing," Travis said. "There <em class="calibre8">is</em> no St.
      Brutus's Secure Centre for Incurably Criminal Boys. There isn't
      even a saint <em class="calibre8">named</em> Brutus. I checked with a priest to make
      sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Hannigan asked. "What happened to the boy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's the question," Travis said. "Most of the
      neighbours say they've never seen nor heard of him, and the
      Dursleys have never said they had another child living there. One
      said she'd seen him on occasion, and assumed he was a friend of
      Dudley's from school. Near as I can tell, the Dursleys have been
      actively hiding his existence. He's not been seen since."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why hasn't Social Services, the Child Protection Unit, or the
      NSPCC looked into this?" Hannigan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe they did," Fiona said. "But were made to forget."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had PC O'Hara call Social Services," Travis said. "I didn't
      tell him why, don't worry. They say they have no record of him
      whatsoever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do we know who his parents are?" Hannigan asked. "Or were, for
      that matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Travis nodded to Fiona, who stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a bit tenuous," she admitted. "Seeing as we couldn't
      find a birth certificate on Harry anywhere. However... well. Lily
      Evans. Sister of Petunia Dursley. Born 1960, last seen in 1981.
      She's Petunia's only sibling, and we're fairly certain none of
      Vernon's had any children. So if Harry really is their nephew, she
      is likely to be the mother. We don't know who the father was, and
      we don't know where the name 'Potter' came from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It rings a bell, somehow. 1981..." he said thoughtfully. "Hmm.
      Anyway. Normally, here, I'd bring the Dursleys in on suspicion of
      child abuse and possible homicide," Hannigan said, "but I suppose
      we can't do that, can we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona shook her head. "They're being watched closely. Both times
      that I've had my memory altered—that I'm aware of—occurred after
      visiting their home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could one of them be our perp, then?" Hannigan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be," Fiona said skeptically. "But based on the report I
      wrote of the initial attack on the Dursleys' home, it seemed like
      the, well, the magic was being performed by an unknown third youth,
      and three accomplices, <em class="calibre8">against</em> the Dursleys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose we have a name or photograph on any of
      them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we had any record, it's been removed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what <em class="calibre8">have</em> we got?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A name, a year, a distinctive scar," Fiona said, "and, best of
      all, a predictable perp."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"1981..." Hannigan said again. "That was a bad year to be a
      copper. Before your time, of course. Homicides and strange
      disappearances had been on the rise for years, but they were at
      their worst then. I was just a constable then, and it seemed like
      every week I was trying to find some new missing person. People
      were afraid to go outside in broad daylight, and they blamed us.
      Said it was our job to protect them. Well, it was, I suppose, but
      what could we do? Then it ended, as suddenly as it began." Hannigan
      frowned. "Hallowe'en," he said finally. "God. I haven't thought
      about this in years. No; not Hallowe'en. It was a day or two after.
      There was some kind of convention of weirdos in town. Wearing
      robes, if you could believe it. Well, half the force was sent out;
      we thought they were partygoers who hadn't quite realized that
      Hallowe'en had ended the night before and the time for fancy dress
      was over. They were scaring people. They don't much like weirdos up
      in Little Whinging; not like in London."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, sir..." Fiona said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm getting to the point, Sergeant. When I said they ought to
      go back home, they said, they said 'it's <em class="calibre8">Harry Potter Day</em>
      and even a mugger like you ought to be celebrating.' A mugger! It
      was as if they'd never seen the uniform before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter Day?" Travis asked. "Never heard of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't exist," Hannigan said. "I researched it. Mind, Harry
      Potter is a common name. And I could be remembering wrong. Memory.
      Can't always trust it, especially lately. Still, if you had a group
      of, what, magicians or something, what would you expect them to
      wear? Cloaks and robes. Merlin-style."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What," Travis said skeptically, "they just wake up, grab their
      pointy hats and magic staves, tuck their beards into their belts
      and walk down the street as if they were taking a stroll to
      Bag-End? I <em class="calibre8">think</em> someone might have noticed that by
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They were pretty sloshed," Hannigan shrugged. "And besides, it
      might be completely unrelated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, the popular image of a magician wearing robes and pointy
      hats has to have come from somewhere, doesn't it?" Fiona said. "So,
      sir. What do we do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Travis, report Harry Potter as missing to the Child
      Protection Unit. They can investigate that angle for us. Who knows,
      if they put his face on the telly, someone might recognize him.
      Also, the Dursleys might crack if they come knocking on their door.
      Could lead us somewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But, if my name is on the report," Travis protested, "they
      might hunt me down. I don't want to forget again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point. Submit it under the name 'L'Angelo
      Misterioso.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"L'Angelo Misterioso?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"DI Parsons down there and us in investigations have an
      understanding of sorts," Hannigan said. "Sometimes we encounter,
      well, situations up their alley," he explained. "But for one reason
      or another our evidence is inadmissible, usually because our
      paperwork isn't in order—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean when you don't have a warrant?" Fiona asked, clearly
      trying, and failing, to mask disapproval.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Such as, for example, right now. Parsons will know to
      investigate without looking too closely at who tipped them off. I
      don't care if the boy was disappeared by magic or used magic to
      disappear. There's fifty-seven million people living in the United
      Kingdom, and <em class="calibre8">someone</em> will have seen something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will do, sir," Travis said snappily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, Fiona," Hannigan said. "I want you to keep looking for the
      boy's parents. My gut says there's something significant about
      1981. What happened to Lily Evans? Who was the father? Did they
      ever marry? Did she ever have a job? Friends? Where did she go to
      school? Find someone who knew her and you'll find her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, sir. And if I may ask, what will you be doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannigan smiled. "I have a lot of friends who are still very,
      <em class="calibre8">very</em> sore about what happened twelve years ago. We need
      allies. With only the three of us, we're in a very precarious
      position. If our perp figures out what we're up to, we could be
      made to forget—or simply removed altogether, and their problems
      would be solved. Nobody would know what to look for, or even to
      look. What we need is a conspiracy. Someone to check up on us,
      remind us what's happening if we forget. People with access to more
      and different information than us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall paced back and forth in Dumbledore's—in
      <em class="calibre8">her</em> office. She couldn't believe the situation had spun
      out of control so fast. One minute she was enjoying a cool glass of
      pumpkin juice and reading the paper, and the next, a horrified
      Lavender Brown ran into her office to say that half the Slytherin
      Quidditch team had been Petrified, and their ears turned into
      cumquats. They never did find out what had happened to their ears,
      but it was quite clear what had Petrified them: Slytherin's
      monster. And she'd only just begun to organize an effort to move
      them to the hospital wing when a half-crazed Lavender Brown, who
      McGonagall had just sent back to her Common Room, pushed her way
      through the crowd to say that Milo Amastacia-Liadon had gone mad
      and destroyed Gryffindor Tower. Halfway up to the tower, she'd been
      assaulted by a <em class="calibre8">very</em> persistent owl from the Ministry
      carrying a letter that said she had to appear before the Wizengamot
      immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was there that she had been told that the Hogwarts' Board of
      Directors had spoken unanimously. Dumbledore was to be removed from
      his position as Headmaster immediately, and was to have no further
      contact with any students of Hogwarts, present or future. He was to
      take full responsibility for the Petrifications. McGonagall was
      instated as Headmistress, and told that if she didn't end the
      'spree' of attacks, she would go the same route as Dumbledore
      had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a knock at the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enter," McGonagall called, sitting uncomfortably in
      Dumbledore's favourite chintz armchair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape, Flitwick, and Sprout entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sent for us, Minerva?" Flitwick said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you've all heard what happened," McGonagall said. "I
      believe we should come up with a plan to deal with the current
      crisis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you referring to my Petrified students?" Snape asked
      angrily. McGonagall often forgot that, despite his cool exterior,
      he could be fiercely protective of his Slytherins. "Or the sudden
      removal of the Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or the incident up in Gryffindor Tower?" Sprout asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All of those," McGonagall said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about the missing students?" asked Flitwick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall frowned. "You mean missing <em class="calibre8">student</em>, surely?"
      she said. "We will make every effort to locate Dean Thomas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody has seen nor heard from Penelope Clearwater, Luna
      Lovegood, or Anthony Goldstein since last evening," Flitwick said
      gravely. "I've spent the last nine and a half hours searching for
      them. I had assumed that was to be the purpose of this
      meeting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin!" McGonagall said. "We'll organize a search party. Don't
      worry, Filius, we'll find your missing Ravenclaws."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not only Ravenclaws," Sprout said. "Susan Bones, Zacharias
      Smith, and Justin Finch-Fletchley haven't been seen since
      dinnertime."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall stared at her. She felt her jaw moving, but couldn't
      quite make words form. <em class="calibre8">Seven</em> missing students? She hadn't
      imagined her first day as Headmistress to be going quite like
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Snape said. "Things <em class="calibre8">do</em> seem to be falling
      apart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was it. McGonagall felt something <em class="calibre8">click</em> inside of
      her, and, suddenly, she was giving orders faster than she could
      think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Sunday," McGonagall said. "So none of us have to worry
      about teaching today. I want every student to stay in their Common
      Rooms for the time being. Pomona, you're going to head the search
      party. Grab Lockhart, even if you have to drag him out of his
      office by the scruff of his neck. Filius, contact the Ministry.
      Amelia Bones at the DMLE is going to move heaven and earth to find
      her niece if it turns out she's not on the grounds, and she'll
      likely be with the rest. Severus, about the supposed Chamber of
      Secrets—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Believe me," Snape said. "I've looked. It won't do any good;
      only the Heir can find it. Unless you happen to have an Heir of
      Slytherin hiding in your pocket?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">know</em> that!" McGonagall snapped. "We've all looked
      for it one time or another. Forget the Chamber and worry about the
      monster, Severus. You know more about the Dark Arts, including its
      dark creatures, than any of us here, and you know it. Find out
      what's hurting our students and how we can kill it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape looked at her for a short moment, then nodded. "Very
      well," he said. There was a hint of approval in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, for the time being, you're Deputy Headmaster," McGonagall
      said. "I know it's what Albus would have done. Hopefully we can
      have him back in charge before long, but if we can't... well."
      McGonagall sighed. "Pomona, how long before we can get those
      Mandrakes ready?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It won't be before early June," she said. "At best."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't we get some sooner than that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mandrakes must be fully grown for maximum potency," Sprout
      said. "This is a labour-intensive process that takes the better
      part of a year. Mandrakes themselves are extremely rare and, due to
      their potentially fatal cry, heavily restricted by most
      governments. Their growth requires supervision from highly-trained
      professionals, but they are required for literally hundreds of
      different common remedies and cures. You would know better than
      any, Minerva, that there are <em class="calibre8">always</em> new and exciting
      transfiguration accidents that require undoing. In short, there is
      an exceptionally long wait list."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But surely, for a condition as serious as Petrification,
      something can be done?" McGonagall asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's exactly the problem," Sprout said. "If someone's teeth
      are turned to ice, they need treatment <em class="calibre8">now</em>. But
      Petrifications... well..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Petrified witches and wizards will keep," Snape said. "In fact,
      they are famous for it. They require no food, no hydration, and
      they do not age. They will, quite simply, not notice the delay one
      way or another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The average wait for a Petrified witch or wizard is fifty-six
      years," Sprout said. "Growing them on-site is our only option."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," McGonagall said. "Well, we have our jobs. Let's get
      to them. Can you send in the next one on your way out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You. In." Snape said to Milo curtly as he walked out of the out
      of the Headmaster's office, Sprout and Flitwick trailing behind
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo swallowed, then walked up the spiral staircase. The door
      was open; McGonagall was sitting behind Dumbledore's desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, they really fired him, then?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unfortunately," McGonagall said. "Now, sit." Without waiting
      for him to comply, she continued. "Explain yourself. What happened
      in Gryffindor tower last evening, what is that amber field, and who
      is inside it disguised as Seamus Finnigan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you tell it wasn't Seamus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm the <em class="calibre8">Transfigurations</em> Professor. Also, he's holding
      the wrong wand. It's not even one of Ollivander's."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was attacked, the field is caused by magic and is entirely
      harmless, and it's a Death Eater inside. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall stared at him straight in the eye, an unreadable
      expression on her face. Milo began preparing arguments,
      counter-arguments, theories, and evidence to back up his accusation
      to combat her inevitable skepticism.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin. That explains everything. This certainly has the
      hallmarks of their interference. Presumably your spell prolongs the
      effects of Polyjuice, or he would have reverted. You'll have to
      tell me where you learned to do that." She frowned, deep in
      thought. "Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas are rarely apart, and if
      Dean is missing... ah. I'll have to tell them to call off the
      search; the missing students are in the hands of the Death Eaters.
      But how? Under our very noses?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo could practically hear the wheels of his brain screeching
      in protest as he forced them to change direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They could have been lured off the grounds and grabbed," Milo
      reasoned. "Or simply Stunned—or killed—on the grounds near the
      forest, then carried out. Hogwarts' defences are somewhat...
      specific. No Apparating or Disapparating on the grounds, but you
      can show up <em class="calibre8">near</em> them and walk the rest of the way. That's
      how they grabbed me, last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall's face betrayed a flicker of surprise. Milo wasn't
      certain how much Dumbledore had told her about the events of last
      year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They'd have to be kept alive," she said. "Polyjuice requires
      fresh material. If their kidnappers were intelligent, they would
      still be so. As a bargaining chip, at the very least. What were
      they after?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "Couldn't say, really. Some kind of magic book
      they thought I had. Could be my spellbook..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your spellbook?" McGonagall asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. Right. Well..." Milo decided that, in this case, perhaps
      honesty was the best option. "I'm not a wizard like you, Professor.
      I don't have a mental block in Transfigurations; I just can't do
      your sort of magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, the story you told when you first arrived really is true?"
      she asked. "You're from another world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Surprisingly, she threw back her head and barked a short, loud
      laugh. "Believe it or not, that is <em class="calibre8">not</em> the most surprising
      thing I've heard today. We'll have to cancel your remedial
      Transfigurations classes, I suppose. Albus knew about this, I
      presume? Of course he did. Very well. He decided you ought to
      continue attending this school, and I will not alter that decision.
      However, be advised that I will <em class="calibre8">not</em> be going easy on you
      in class because of your... differences. I will not pass a student
      who cannot meet certain minimum standards. How you meet those
      standards are up to you, however."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Understood," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, this... spellbook. What would they want with it? What
      would happen if they were to obtain it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Milo said. "It's just so much paper to them. Booby
      trapped paper, at that. Maybe they wanted something else, though.
      They weren't terribly clear, to be honest. High on gloating, low on
      clarity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds like most dark wizards I've had the poor fortune to
      meet," McGonagall said. "So. Death Eaters have kidnapped my
      students, infiltrated the school, and launched an attack in my
      tower?" McGonagall stood up, her knuckles turning white as she
      trembled with slowly growing fury. "If they think I'm just an old
      schoolteacher who will roll over and let them get away with this,
      they've got another thing coming. A very large, very heavy thing,
      transfigured into existence, perhaps, directly above their heads."
      With visible effort, she calmed herself down. "I believe, Mister
      Amastacia-Liadon, that the time has come for you to tell me
      everything. I presume that, much like last year, you have allowed
      curiosity to get the better of yourself and have been looking into
      this matter on your own time, against quite literally dozens of
      school rules and regulations?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well. Yeah, basically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Good</em> lad. Twenty points for Gryffindor. No, make that
      thirty. Take me to your Death Eater," she said. "Let's see what we
      can learn from him—or her. Fill me in along the way."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
