<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 10: Practices, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: Practices</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">" So Derrick would be playing as a chaser rather than the keeper
      and the captain and keeper of the senior team would be Oliver
      Wood." Hermione read out the list given by Madam Hooch " that is
      strange. Hasn't Gryffindor lost all the matches till now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have checked his info" Draco replied " The only reason that
      Gryffindor hasn't won all the matches this year is that they don't
      have a seeker worth a knut. Its almost as if the position is
      cursed. A DADA teacher has better survival odds, at least they stay
      for one year; no Gryffindor seeker has stayed on for more than a
      match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But as far as the rest of the team goes, its near perfect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His use of strategy is fascinating to watch. He deploys
      resources with creativity. Weasley Brothers have truly become a
      threat during his captaincy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So strong is their defense that this year there have been two
      matches of Gryffindor where number of goals by opposition chasers
      had been zero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In one match, their chasers went up to the score of 140 against
      zero till the other seeker caught the snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then of course there is Wood himself, the super-keeper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Our chasers have quite a task here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco," Harry said "It seems to me that this is the key
      problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Our keeper Neville would be trying out a rather unusual
      approach, so he won't be able to help you with the traditional
      super-ness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What we need is an obstacle that would allow you to practice
      against invincibility. We would need our own super-keeper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Any candidates?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's eyes were non responsive for a while. And then there was
      a glow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I think I can arrange a super keeper. When would you need
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At 5 a.m. Harry was with Patil twins in the ground, waiting for
      Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twins were doing the warm up with their broom sticks. It was a
      routine Harry was unfamiliar with. They rose, dove, spun and braked
      with such precision that Harry felt like he was watching
      synchronous swimming in air. Slight morning mists made it appear as
      if only one of them were real, and other a mirage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the grounds again. He had to move to the
      chambers to disucss implementation of strategies with Neville,
      Hermione and Goyle. Where was Draco?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As if in answer figure of Draco emerged from the mist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi. I hope I am not too late. I had to snake in, I mean sneak
      in and out of the kitchen you see." Draco said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wanted an early snake, I mean an early snack?" Harry
      innocently asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No" Draco dignifiedly ignored the PJ "I wanted the cook. Harry,
      meet our own practice super-keeper. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A little green creature emerged from behind Draco. He had eyes
      that were the size of small tennis balls. Early morning sun was
      getting reflected in them making them look slightly fiery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Mr. Harry Potter" he spoke in a soft squeak that didn't
      go with those fiery eyes at all " Dobby is honored to meet
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patil and Patil spiraled their way forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" They are good." Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" In deed." Draco agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They kept on constantly passing the quaffle amongst themselves.
      It was hard to keep the track of who is the one keeping the
      quaffle. Their identical appearances only helped their
      camouflage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Parvati and Padma flew on opposite sides making it nearly
      impossible to observe both the players at once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma threw the quaffle. It was slightly off the good angle.
      Harry noticed that while they were both good in flying and keeping
      synchronization, their throwing was a bit off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the angle was still beyond Dobby's blind spot. It would
      travel past him with ease.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't. Dobby easily shifted his broom and caught the quaffle
      with one easy flick of a hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wondered if it was because of Dobby's eyes. Maybe his
      blind spot area was much less.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" How is he so good?" Harry asked Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he has been playing Quidditch with me since childhood. Dad
      wanted me to get good, so he was just ordered not to let the ball
      pass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So he has been trying his hardest since childhood. I was rarely
      able to get a ball past him. Sometimes I would just order him to
      let me score. It would be funny to see him dealing with two
      contradictory orders." Draco proudly said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt slightly uncomfortable. He should remember not to let
      Hermione know too much about this issue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But how was a Hogwarts house elf your playmate?" Harry
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" He has been a Hogwarts house elf only since I have joined the
      school. We sort of donated him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Its simple actually. When a Malfoy moves in Hogwarts, we simply
      order a house elf of ours to come here asking for a job. Hogwarts,
      for its part, is always happy to accept more free labour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So he comes here and is supposed to work for Hogwarts, but in
      truth, I can ask him to do anything since his first obedience is
      still with me." Draco smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes moved from Draco to Dobby. He had just saved
      another goal and the two Patils were hovering side-by-side, angrily
      glaring at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Harry?" Draco noticed Harry's sudden solemn-ness. "Is anything
      wrong?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, nothing. Just that Hermione may have some problem with
      this." Harry said, still looking at Dobby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And do you have any problem with this?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I think that whoever made House Elves like this was evil."
      Harry replied " But I also think that Hermione is not doing them
      any favor now to try and make them go against their design. I have
      almost told Hermione this once before, but didn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyway, just ask Dobby to come over after the meeting tonight.
      Will ask Hermione to stay over. I think this issue is best
      discussed away from the group."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure. Tonight then." Draco replied, wondering what consequences
      would that discussion yield. But then, he wasn't going to say no to
      Harry over a house elf.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
