<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 12: Asimov's One and Half Laws Part II, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: Asimov's One and Half Laws Part II</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The doors of the dormitories opened. Though these doors were
      different, the path they led to tonight was the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For tonight all roads led to the headquarters of the Sunshine
      Army.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne, Lavender, Hannah, Parvati, Padma, Susan and Tracey
      marched with an understanding that required no words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The news was out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had finally managed to land a victim.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby was confused. Dobby was very very confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Leave him. Let him go, or at least breathe. He is Not a teddy
      bear." Hermione gasped as she tried to save Dobby from a literal
      embrace of death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But he is so cute." Daphne cooed. " Look at his eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought house elves were invisible." Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" No they aren't. They just work in a way that we don't notice
      them." Susan answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. And that's the problem." Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody turned to Hermione. Things were about to get seriously
      heroic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione spoke with precise passion " They work tirelessly
      because they have been magically designed to do so. They don't work
      because of their free will; they work because they don't have any
      other option than that of following orders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In return we don't reward them, we don't even give them a
      salary.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Salary? We order them to not even be seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You know why? So that we don't see what we are doing to
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Its not them that we don't want to see, its our own evil.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We have got to stop this." Hermione concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a general silence of shock. Hermione continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby is a house elf of Hogwarts. Yet because Malfoys owned
      him earlier, he currently has not only to follow orders, but has to
      follow orders of two masters. He has to follow his duties towards
      Hogwarts and then he has to follow Malfoy's order as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So if Malfoy orders him to wake up at 5 a.m. to practice
      Quidditch, he has to do it even if his official duty doesn't begin
      till much later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We think we have problems with the homework? Look at Dobby."
      Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody looked at Dobby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma and Parvati gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We didn't realize that it was so wrong to use him in Quidditch
      practice." Padma said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I am glad I joined this group or else I wouldn't have known
      what injustice was going on. This is wrong" Parvati agreed with her
      twin sister which was a rather rare occurrence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is decided." Tracey suddenly said. " We won't let him play
      Quidditch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sudden resolve spread through the room instantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The heroines had decided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all looked solemnly up to the sky that a mere castle
      ceiling couldn't have blocked from their imagination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then there was a cough, a slight choking sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby" Hermione rushed to him " what happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I..I.. No nothing" Dobby fumbled with words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Go ahead Dobby, tell us what you are trying to say." Hermione
      encouraged him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" The thing is, I , um, Dobby actually likes playing Quidditch."
      Dobby managed to say in a low voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A silence struck the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Its decided then." Tracey quickly handled the situation " we
      won't let anybody stop Dobby from playing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So the heroines had decided again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We will make sure Dobby that you aren't over exerted."
      Hermione said. " If you ever feel tired, or if you want to take
      time off, you can tell it to Padma and Parvati and they will help
      you. And if Harry tries to order you around, you can come and tell
      me." Hermione told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby likes Harry Potter." Dobby said in a voice that was not
      a squeak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione noticed that Dobby was suddenly less hesitant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Well, I too like him." Hermione admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a sign of how serious the room's atmosphere had become
      that nobody cooed at this sentence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But he could be a bit harsh sometimes." Hermione said, "Then
      he doesn't care if he is hurting somebody. Like he was doing today
      with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby has been in much worse conditions. Harry Potter was
      kind. He even asked me if he could order me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He. He talked to me." Dobby said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was listening very closely and every word said so much
      more than its meaning. 'Talked to me'? Was even that a big thing
      for Dobby?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then," Dobby continued, " He is The-Boy-who-Lived, he
      helped end the rule of Dark Lord".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby." Hermione involuntary said. Her words trying to reach
      Dobby who had suddenly changed in front of their eyes. As if a
      memory had possessed him. A deep, sad, memory that shone from the
      eyes of the house elf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby was quite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he was as quickly back to his nervous, unsure self as
      he realised what he was talking about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did Dark Lord do to you?" Susan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The group had drawn closer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Go ahead Dobby. Don't worry. Tell us." Lavender said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wondered whether Dobby started to speak because he felt
      comfortable enough to share or whether he interpreted the words of
      Lavender as an order. But Dobby did answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dark Lord did bad bad things." Dobby said, " Particularly to
      the house elves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was bad. Very bad. Harry Potter saved us from him." Dobby
      concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" What bad things did he do to house elves?" Parvati asked. She
      wondered what possibly worse treatment could be given out to house
      elves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wasn't sure if this should continue. What if Dobby was
      taking their questions and encouragements as orders? What if he
      ended up telling them something that they shouldn't know?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To be a heroine meant that she couldn't avoid a reality just
      because it was convenient to be ignorant. She may be afraid, but
      that's precisely why this was so important. She won't let her fear
      guide her sense of what is right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Dobby. Go on. Tell us what You-Know-Who did to elves, but
      only if you feel like talking about it." Hermione said, wording it
      so that it didn't come out like a command.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby looked at them for a while, looked down. And then, began
      talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" There is dark magic. Spells that are not allowed. Dark Lord
      had many people around him who couldn't perform those spells. So,
      so.. he made them practice, on us." Dobby said and kept looking at
      the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Spells that are not allowed? Do you mean Unforgivable Curses?"
      Hermione asked with horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby nodded. Everybody in the room who understood what the
      Unforgivable Curses were, went numb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby continued. " There are still amongst us those who
      celebrate The Dark Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Those who think that a house elf who died during death eaters
      practicing Avadakedavra on him, was a hero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it was bad. Bad bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby doesn't think that it was good to die for him. Dobby
      punishes self for such thoughts constantly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wanted to touch his shoulder. Tell him that it was all
      ok. She couldn't. Part of her wanted to believe that it was because
      she didn't want to disturb him while telling the story. Part of her
      knew that this was just a pale shadow of the fear that one faces in
      front of true darkness. She kept on listening to him, while keeping
      a watch on her own reactions, her own fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were considered best for Excruciatus curse. A death eater
      who used to 'practice' on me told me that it is easy to learn how
      to excruciate us because we were all so naturally disgusting.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby's suppressed fury was becoming contagious. Hermione
      noticed that her mind found fear to be irrelevant now. It only knew
      rage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But what was really bad was 'Imperius curse'" Dobby said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Imperius curse?" Susan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody looked at her. She herself looked surprised that she
      had interrupted. But she had to ask something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But wouldn't Imperius curse be of no use against house elves?
      Aren't you supposed to follow orders anyway?" Susan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She knew what an Imperius curse was, she had heard about it
      plenty of times in her family and never was there a happy mention.
      Taking away somebody's free will was heinous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she said this, she suddenly understood what a great sin
      wizard kind was committing against house-elves. It was like
      house-elves had been permanently put under an Imperius curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt like vomiting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. We are. We do follow orders." Dobby said. A bit of a
      squeak returned to his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But" Dobby continued " There are certain things that we are not
      permitted to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We can't harm a wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Dark Lord was bad. Death eaters were bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When they wanted to do something very very bad, then they would
      use us. They would use Imperius on us and then they would remove
      the curse once we had done what they had asked us to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The elf would see what he had done, things that no house elf is
      supposed or allowed to ever do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then.."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would he die?" Tracey asked. She was silently crying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" .. no. He wouldn't die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He just wouldn't be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wouldn't understand anything anymore. Wouldn't do anything.
      Wouldn't even follow orders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Death eaters would just leave him and he wouldn't even move or
      look for food.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wouldn't even eat if somebody tried to feed him. Wouldn't drink
      water if somebody cried and begged him to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He just wouldn't be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby was perhaps the only person in the room not crying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter made Dark Lord go away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter is great. And he is kind too. You too are kind." He
      looked at Hermione " Dobby is honored to meet you all. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby was back in his previous personality. Once again a
      cute-ugly creature who was keen to follow orders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was something strange about Dobby's behaviour. As if he
      was constantly struggling with himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby" Hermione asked as sudden inspiration struck her " You
      can read, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby mumbled something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Repeat that again, will you? And a bit louder this time
      please." Hermione urged him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Yes Dobby can read." He said " Master Malfoy told me to learn
      reading and writing, so that I could do his homework."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Outrageous." Daphny said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Actually " Hermione said in a thoughtful tone " That might
      have been the single best thing that Draco has ever done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girls turned to look at Hermione. What did she mean?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby. Would you be willing to read a book if I suggested it? I
      promise that it would be very important." Hermione said to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby would be honored to read a book that Mistress Hermione
      suggests. Dobby would be very happy." Dobby said and seemed
      genuinely happy by the very thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Oh, that's perfect then. " Hermione said " Now the only
      question is how do we find time for you to read that book. As it
      is, with two masters, you can't be having too much time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Can you stop doing the Hogwarts' work?" She asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby's expression once again changed. It was almost like Dobby
      was suffering from a multiple personality disorder. He was now back
      to the frenzy that he had displayed earlier with Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Must work. Can't stop. No" Dobby said and started to wildly
      shake his head. It was slightly un-nerving to watch. Hermione
      suspected that he didn't start to hit himself only because the
      order wasn't yet given, just mentioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop" Hermione immediately said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right" Hermione said " You can't just ignore a previously given
      order. FIFO"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody in the room understood what Hermione had just said. What
      was FIFO?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Hermione was thoughtful. She could see now why Harry had
      checked Dobby for that. At least they had some knowledge about
      Dobby's condition now. They knew that he followed orders using FIFO
      Maybe she was too harsh on Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She would make up by telling him what she found out. As it
      seemed by Dobby's story, apparently no house elf was supposed to
      harm a human being. Harry would like to know that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that aside, the problem remained, how to get extra time for
      Dobby when Hogwarts had already given him the general list of daily
      activities that a house elf had to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aha" She smiled and turned to the heroines. It was a smile that
      was universally understood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had a plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next morning:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was furious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But that is my house elf." He was shouting at the twins. " Now
      that the morning practice is over, what do you have to do with
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma and Parvati Patil both had their wands aimed threateningly
      at Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We?" Padma asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't have anything to do with him" Parvati clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He will decide for himself what he has to do with his
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If however you try to give him an order to the contrary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Or try to give him a routine order, something that he has to
      do daily.."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Then we will hex you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For starters. Then every girl in Hogwarts will hex you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And keep on hexing you whenever we feel like it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Do not mess with SPHEW.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The heroines have decided." Padma and Parvati said together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't say a word. He didn't even ask what the hell was
      SPHEW.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
