<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 13: Harry's Game, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Harry's Game</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">25 days to the match</p>
      <p class="calibre6">..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, why are we playing this game?" Draco asked. And there
      was a visible irritation in his voice as he ended the practice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew what SPHEW had done. He had to suppress the smirk
      every time Draco looked angry from then onwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" What do you mean?" Harry innocently asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You say that we are playing this game to stop the absorption
      of Sunshine and Dragon army. But yet, look at your plan. What we
      are doing is not about winning, its about destroying the game. "
      Draco said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twins had landed and were at a distance. Clearly listening
      without being too obvious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why exactly are we playing this game?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" For Power. " Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco hadn't expected such a clear-cut response. He was too used
      to being bewildered in Harry's company.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Simplicity thus seemed to be just the latest deception.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We would have got the power just by winning this game." Draco
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" No. What we would have gotten is freedom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that same freedom has been taken away from us once. When we
      get it back, we will also get back its vulnerability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore there has to be a different kind of freedom that we
      should win.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that's what is power- Freedom with surplus to spare."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked at him. Harry finally understood. Harry was finally
      on the Slytherin way. The time spent with him wasn't wasted at
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco agreed and walked away satisfied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby, standing behind the twins, squeaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 night to the match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was standing in front of the portrait sealing the
      Ravenclaw door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You have got to be kidding me. " He said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You are already a kid, young Raven. I see not how I did
      anything regarding that." The lady in the portrait looked slightly
      perplexed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cursed himself (not literally though). Of course a century
      old portrait wouldn't understand current slang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then why were its questions so current and contextual with
      an alarming frequency?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why with just a night to go for the game, was the portrait
      asking..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Why do we play games?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" For Power. For Victory." Harry answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Incorrect ." The lady in the Portrait replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">24 days to the match</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Harry. " Parvati called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" There is something we want to discuss." Padma said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From many synchronized conversations with Weasleys and now
      Patils, Harry felt justified to postulate that there was an inbuilt
      sense of déjà-vu in any conversation with twins. Or rather reverse
      of Déjà vu, where he felt to be the only one who hadn't seen it all
      before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby is very disturbed regarding what you said last morning to
      Draco." Parvati said. Or was it Padma?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had rounded up on Harry when he was discussing the
      scenarios with Neville. Probably they didn't want to talk to Harry
      with Draco around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby is so upset, he couldn't even talk to you." Parvati
      said. Definitely Parvati this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are playing this game for Power? Really?" Padma said with
      disgust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes." Harry answered." What's wrong with that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that is the Dark Lord's way. The quest for power is
      evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Really?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Heard of Nicolo Machiavelli?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was an Italian Philosopher. Wrote a book called 'The Prince',
      also called 'Handbook of evil'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And on an aside, 'The Prince' is the correct name. There was no
      'Half-blood' in there. Even if Albus and Snape are there." Harry
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody's understanding experienced a sudden blackout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry himself wondered if allegations that Dumbledore was
      contagious were true. Harry could see that his sense of humor had
      taken a life of its own. Or more accurately, that his sense of
      humor had taken its own life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook himself mentally and continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" That book talked about how to gain power and how to retain
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some of the most repulsive strategies are mentioned there with a
      calm mechanical efficiency. Something to be done as the obvious
      first thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More than the methods described there it's the manner of
      description that shakes people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet, what I found evil in that book was that not even once does
      writer mentions or questions 'What to do with power?'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If anything is really stupid, wrong, or as is popularly said
      'evil', it is that absence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of all the leaders we see, most just want to reach to the top of
      the system, and remain there. That's their understanding of the
      power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But to change the system for the better, that takes more than
      just power, it takes purpose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We are looking for power yes. But what we seek is not a
      purposeless power. We know what we want to do with it. We know how
      we want to change the game for better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To take away the aristocratic snitch from an otherwise
      democratic game. To stop one's age from becoming a discrimination
      factor. To stop 'seniority' to become a synonym for 'superiority'
      in Hogwarts. That and a little more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But none of that can be done without power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So don't consider our quest evil, not until we have power in
      surplus of purpose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 night to the match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You are drunk aren't you?" Harry respectfully asked the
      Portrait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wrong answer." She tonelessly replied, ignoring the sarcastic
      respect effortlessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Are you really supposed to be doing this? Who gave you this
      question?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wrong answer. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Ok fine. I will play along.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We play games to find out why we play games.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That deep enough for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wrong answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood staring at the portrait in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Ok. How about this?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We play games because we have to. We are in midst of some game
      from the moment of birth to the death. At best we can choose our
      game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wrong answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 night and a few hours before the match..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was all set.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's final session with Neville came to the conclusion.
      Everybody else had gone for sleep early.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry." Neville said as they walked out of the empty
      classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stopped besides a window that overlooked the forbidden
      forests. Somewhere in the grounds, Hagrid had lit fire. With all
      the magic that surrounded them , there was still something about a
      lonely fire in a dark night, something beyond magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't ask Neville, what did he want to say. He just sat
      on the windowsill opposite. Nothing but an absurd star sprinkled
      sky behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Why? "Neville finally asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why what? Harry wanted to ask. Why we are playing this game?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why we aren't just facing the real dark forces? Why we aren't
      chasing Bellatrix instead?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why aren't we growing up all at once?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wondered what Neville wanted to ask. But then he already knew
      it. Knew what that particular 'why' was. Why were they playing the
      game?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" To change our world Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If we play at all, we play against History, the sort that
      repeats its self even when it was redundant the first time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We play against the authority not questioned. We play against
      the snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This game, it is just a practice to win bloodless wars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 night to the match</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wrong answer." The lady in the portrait replied once more. No
      hint of boredom yet in her voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You mean to say that a game is not a bloodless war?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lady looked miffed at Harry's incredulity. She stopped her
      spree of standard reply of denial and answered " I mean to say that
      that is not why we play the game. Afterall there has to be a reason
      behind war too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There has to be a reason behind war? And then won't there be a
      reason behind that reason as well? This is nuts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, wait a minute. I get it." Harry said. " We play the game to
      get rid of opponents' Weapons of Mass Destruction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's the most sound reason anybody has ever given for a war.
      You have got to agree with that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wrong answer." She said again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" That was no answer, that was sarcasm. So you were the one who
      was wrong here. Would you let me through now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened. She didn't even bother to answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was snapping. It has been long 30 days. He had been not
      sleeping properly, even Time Turner's 6 hours weren't enough for
      his need. And to top it all, he had just been told by the 'wise'
      portrait that all the answers that he had been giving others, were
      wrong. That what he told Draco, Patils and Neville was just plain
      mistaken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine. You want me to say I don't know?" Harry said in a quite
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I DON'T KNOW." Harry's shout echoed in the silent corridor
      "HAPPY NOW?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was surprised at his own outburst. Was the reaction just the
      outcome of being tired, or was there really a doubt in his mind
      regarding his purpose, Harry wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I am tired." Harry said. " I didn't want to say that, but you
      can see me right? You can see it in me can't you?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Let me sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We will continue playing this game of riddles tomorrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For now, could you just give me a break."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened. There was a slight wait in Harry's eyes. Harry
      should have known better that approaching a problem like this. But
      it had been 30 long days, and he just could not see the
      significance of this problem right now. He also couldn't see the
      door opening. The very slight and very uncalled for hope in his
      eyes started to recede.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the door opened. Out if it, emerged Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Hermione. You opened it from inside." Harry said and rushed in
      "Great. I was feeling like I was facing the picture of Dorian Gray
      here for a while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I thought I heard your voice. And the most infrequent words in
      it, something like 'I don't know'." There was a slight smile on her
      lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You heard my voice? You were still in common room, at this
      hour?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, waiting for Dobby. You were talking to him right? Where
      is he."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Oh yeah, I let him go long ago. He should be in the kitchen. I
      didn't think before I asked him to go back there. Forgot that he
      nowadays spends his time in Ravenclaw dormitories. " Harry
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I will go get him. His book is with me. He wouldn't be able to
      read it peacefully there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened from inside again and Hermione stepped out.
      Harry decided to let her be. He needed to sleep. And that was the
      only thing he would. He wouldn't try to intervene and point out the
      pointlessness. He wouldn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Hermione." Harry found himself calling after her. He stood at
      the edge of the door, so it wouldn't just close again " We have a
      game tomorrow. Shouldn't you be sleeping? Haven't we had this
      discussion earlier?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Besides, really why are you trying to help house elves? I told
      you before, and by now you have seen for yourself that they have
      been designed to be content in their current mindset. Its just
      plain cruelty to go against their beliefs. Why try to reform them
      when they haven't even asked?" Harry finally said. He had to.
      Though, he didn't understand why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stood there for a while. She was smiling, or was it
      just Harry's imagination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Why am I trying to reform house elves?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Let me ask you rather, why are you trying to reform wizardkind,
      Harry?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They too have been designed to be content with their current
      state. They even manage to enjoy it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, you won't have any of it would you. You even want to take
      away their favorite snitch from their favorite game. All for their
      own good, of course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thing with you is Harry that you just see the things you
      find of use. Others, particularly your opponents, they don't even
      exist in your head. Neither wizards nor house elves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So you go ahead and impose your will on them just because you
      think you are right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Isn't that the reason why you are playing this game Harry?"
      Hermione said and walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't even notice when she was gone. He just could see the
      blank corridors, and his own numb blank mind. He could just see the
      door which was repeatedly trying to get shut, and got stopped each
      time because Harry was there, standing on the edge. He could just
      see something within him trying to shut too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally he moved. The door shut close. Harry was facing the
      Portrait once again.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
