<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 15: The Bludger Defence, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: The Bludger Defence</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Draco grabbed the quaffle from Roger who had had his wits
      knocked out from an invisible bludger attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma and Parvati encircled Draco and a three way attack
      ensued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Lumos maxima. That's the spell that Hermione had casted. "
      Wood was telling to his teammates through Verntriloquo. " Goyle had
      hit the bludger so that it exactly stopped at that illuminated spot
      produced by the spell. And then was the time when the bludger
      turned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is bad news.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It appears that this team has figured out how the apparently
      random moves of a bludger really work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's why Hermione was able to use that curve. She is giving
      the directions to Goyle by Lumos Maxima spell, and Goyle is
      providing the power and accuracy to the bludger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's why Harry had perhaps positioned himself so that bludger
      won't get to him. Too much distance perhaps, or something similar.
      I am working it out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You got that Weasleys? What's your plan there?" Wood asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Don't worry about us. We have got this. Check the trio that is
      coming towards you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That" Wood said " is no problem"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A throw by Parvati was easily blocked by Wood as if he saw it
      coming even before it was thrown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think" Parvati said to Draco as they chased the quaffle once
      again " Wood is perhaps a better keeper than even Dobby"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed. It was clear that handling Wood would be tough.
      Other than that, talking with a SPHEW member about Dobby wasn't the
      most pleasant experience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Far away, Fred and George were busy with their own problem.
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fred" George said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Wood said that distance was the problem. Say what, shall we
      show the first years how shuffling is really done?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Why not. They have earned it. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred shot the bludger towards George. He hit it with an
      increased force towards Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both descended, repeating this motion and closing down the
      gap. Each shot of bludger becoming heavier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We told you Harry. This will be an all out war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You won't be able to snap your fingers out of this one. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thumping sound from the bludger and bats intensified and
      echoed in the ground. Spectators could have sworn that the sound
      was in synch with their heartbeats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No body was watching the chasers or the senior seeker's search
      anymore. There was only one battle that mattered right now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" The twins are coming down from the sky, shuttling all the
      time. They are coming down in shape of a beautiful Y." Lee said. "
      And Harry hasn't moved at all. Still upside down. Could it be that
      it is not possible to quickly move in that position. Or is it that
      he has another plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he does then here is the news flash, Weasleys don't care.
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred was now close enough to see Harry. He grinned at him. Harry
      grinned back an upside down smile that seemed more suitable to him
      than anything else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Greetings were over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then at the few meters above the ground, Fred hit the
      bludger at the full speed towards Harry. Point blank blast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 1-D defense is easier than 3-D defense, you know? When am near
      the ground, I just have to move left or right to avoid. " Harry
      said while moving to his side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bludger just missed him. Since Harry was very near the
      ground, the force of the bludger made it have a heavy crash with
      the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the bludger started to return.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suddenly flew backwards further towards the ground and
      bludger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Harry is flying backwards even lower to the ground." Lee said
      " What is he thinking? If he touches the ground, he will be
      disqualified. And then there is the returning bludger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Watch out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a swift flight, Harry's back crashed with the bludger.
      Everybody looking involuntarily shut their eyes imagining the
      pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Cushioning charm of a broom's seat." Harry smiled at the twins
      and said " It could work as a shock absorber while one is upside
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And thus I could do this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Those who had closed their eyes slowly opened them, as they
      couldn't suppress their curiosity further.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee's voice was stunned but not silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Unbelievable." Lee said " Harry flew backwards when the
      bludger hit the ground. And now he has trapped the bludger between
      himself and the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He is still airborne, so that's not violating the rules.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the bludger is gone. Kidnapped by Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with the other bludger still being shuttled by Doyle and
      Hermione there are no more bludgers in the game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins are hovering in the air aimlessly. There is nothing
      they can do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry has just taken the Weasley brothers out of the game."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
