<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 16: Weasleys' War, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 16: Weasleys' War</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">George and Fred hovered in the air with no bludger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" .. Harry has just taken Weasley brothers out of the game." Lee
      had said a moment before. There was an utter silence in the
      stadium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Up above somewhere, chasers were fighting it out amongst
      themselves and a lone seeker was waiting to end the game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And to nobody that seemed to matter right now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Come on Weasleys." Lee suddenly broke the silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" What the hell you are doing. Get moving. Do something that
      none of us are expecting. Where is the mayhem? You won't let such a
      small things stop you now would you?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We are all waiting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Come on Weasleys." A breathless Lee said in one go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stadium suddenly felt as if it had found its voice and it
      went boom. There was no slow chant, there was just open outrage. A
      war cry from everyone. Even the first years couldn't see their
      ideals in this helpless situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Weasleys. Weasleys. Weasleys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone was shouting their lungs out. A frenzy had caught
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Sheesh." George said while looking around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Looks like we won't be getting our five minutes to think" Fred
      smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Fine, then let's go ahead with what we have." George said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were both silent for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Hover' Fred said to his broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he left the grip on it. Slowly, with a perfect balance
      he stood up on the broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Weasleys. Weasleys. Weasleys. The crowd went. They expected
      something totally unprecedented and that's what they were
      getting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If mom sees this, then we would both be so dead." Fred said,
      now completely standing on his broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" She will hear it for sure. We can't help it. This will be a
      legend." George smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred looked at him as he drew his broom closer. And then with an
      easy grace, he jumped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The shout of Weasleys stopped. People had to take time out to
      gasp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred remained in the air for a moment, no broom under him, only
      an inevitable fall. And then he landed on George's broom. The broom
      sank in the air, as its weight doubled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That one broom now contained both the Weasleys, while another
      hovered in the air as it was commanded. Fred looked up at his broom
      and said " Down "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The broom started to come down in a slow motion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't help but smile. A smile of sincere admiration,
      and joy. Weasleys were truly worthy opponents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop." Fred said. The broom was now just below Harry's
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voice command to brooms." Fred said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" After you used it to us in our last meeting, we did explore
      the thing in detail." George said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was great fun. Here is our thanks." Fred said and then gave
      the command "Rotate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The broom moved. Center steady in air, it started to rotate. Its
      back end started to get closer to the bludger beneath Harry's back.
      It would then have been knocked it out sideways and the bludger
      would have been back in the game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brilliant" Harry said and instantly took off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just before the broom's tail end could have reached the bludger
      and freed it, Harry launched himself, towards the sky. Still upside
      down, it was like he was falling not from the sky but into the
      sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Yet, two people on a broom makes it slower." Harry said as he
      passed Weasley Brothers on their broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We will get you." George called after him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But first, we will take our bludger." Fred said and looked
      around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Where was the bludger?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Where did it go after getting freed?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Lee was announcing " Why has bludger got stuck to Harry's
      back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody looked up. Indeed, the bludger did seem to be stuck to
      Harry's back. It was moving with precisely the same speed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I got it." Wood understood. " I got the mystery of the
      bludgers."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
