<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 17: Game's changer, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17: Game's Changer</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">" The secret is in the definition 'Bludgers will randomly attack
      players.'" Wood was talking to others through Ventriliquo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But for that the bludger has to be able to sense players. I
      don't know the mechanism here, but by Harry's actions, I am
      guessing that the bludger attacks closest player, unless beaters
      use their bat. That's why the first time Harry was attacked, the
      bludger came back, because there was just one player near the
      ground and more players up in the air, the attraction force must
      have pulled it back. Only a point blank attack worked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that's why Hermione is getting the bludgers to turn. She
      just leaves it in the blindspot of one of our chasers who would be
      closest to the bludger, then the bludger does the rest of the
      work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right now, Harry is moving at the speed that is exactly the same
      as that of bludger. That is why he continues to be the closest
      target. That is why it seems that bludger is flying with him as if
      stuck to his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We have to change our strategy.. Oh wait.."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wood swerved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Too late. Draco scored the first goal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" He may fly better." Draco said to Padma so that Wood could
      hear " But the thing about Dobby is, he doesn't get
      distracted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wood knew that this was strategy. He was just being messed with.
      He was doing good. He had just figured out a crucial strategy of
      opponents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet it hurt when Lee announced..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" The opening hit goes to First years. They have done it. They
      have scored through the Super Keeper. Who would have believed it.
      The score is 10-0. So far first years are leading in every way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But wait, it seems that Cedric has just spotted the snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And So has Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We now have the seeker contest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The air in the stadium seemed saturated with the noise at that
      moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee continued "Both are flying towards snitch from the opposite
      directions. But Cedric is closer to snitch, just a little. First
      years did great, but we may soon see the game getting over."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Cedric flew in a straight line towards each other.
      Harry was flying at a furious pace of bludger, but Cedric was doing
      it too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I am just a little ahead of you Potter." Cedric thought, " I
      will take this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a straight line, they flew towards each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Nobody is stopping. " Lee said. " If this continues then even
      if Cedric gets snitch first, he will crash into Potter while they
      are both at same incredible speed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is no longer a game of Quidditch folks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is a game of chicken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Will Cedric loose the nerve? Will he let go of his sure shot
      victory to avoid the accident?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or will Harry be the one to loose the nerve and ditch this
      desperate move?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or are we really going to witness the most spectacular crash in
      Howgarts Quiddtich History?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will move Harry." Cedric thought. "You should know that I
      would figure out your bluff. You won't allow the crash, not with
      your rationality that should already know the outcome.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I will not move Harry. Look into my eyes. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Cedric's gazes were locked onto each other rather than
      the snitch between them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They zoomed closer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then, just before the point of no return, Harry moved,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I won" Cedric thought with a sudden joy and extended his hands
      to the snitch that was very near his grip now, his focus on his
      goal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the upper corners of his eyes saw something coming towards
      him. Harry didn't move?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An ancient instinct in Cedric made him move, and he avoided the
      crash by half a second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another figure jumped at him from the corner of his eyes, he
      moved again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry passed him by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry? Then what passed him earlier?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" A bludger" Lee was once again breathless " Harry moved in a
      sharp sudden turn, but bludger behind him continued to travel
      straight. Cedric didn't even expect that and moved away at the very
      last moment, loosing the chance to grab the snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So we thought that the game of chicken was between Harry and
      Cedric, but that game was finally won by the bludger .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry has now gone in chase of the snitch again which
      disappears as he reaches there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody got the snitch this time but was it some seeker battle.
      Cedric flies back to the heights. Harry doesn't stop either but
      continues to go to get the bludger again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I wonder why. I wonder just what next is he going to do with
      that bludger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry caught up with the bludger once again and it started to
      follow him. Though it was now at some distance and no longer did it
      appear to be glued to his back. People below too were beginning to
      understand the explanation behind the behavior of bludgers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" There is something odd going on with this game." Cedric's
      voice came to Wood. They were now both using Ventriliquo to achieve
      a two way communication.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You mean 30-0 score? Draco and Patils are good at deceptions
      and I have been getting distracted with other aspects." Wood
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a slight delay in the response of Cedric, as if this
      wasn't the reply he expected from Wood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." He finally said " I don't mean 30-0 score. I mean about
      Harry. I don't know what is he trying to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because just now, when he caught on to the bludger, that was
      odd."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" What do you mean, I just explained what he was doing with the
      bludger." Wood said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" No, not that. What was really odd was that he didn't need to
      catch it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had time." Cedric said "He could have caught the snitch
      instead."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
