<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 2: Life Eater, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Life Eater</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody spoke a word till they reached the general headquarters
      of the Chaos army.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Draco broke the silence "How do we fight back?" He looked
      at Hermione and Harry who was still not displaying any emotions.
      Draco wondered for a while why Harry should be involved at all. The
      situation was of advantage to him, why would he want to alter
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry" Hermione said " Calm down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned to look Hermione with incredulity. Calm down? Why
      was she asking Harry to calm down?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only when Harry spoke that Draco understood how mistaken
      he was. Harry's silence wasn't that of indifference. It was a
      silence of restrain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco noted that he has missed out on something. He thus
      listened to Harry keenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" If Prof. Quirrel wants to make it unfair, then let's make sure
      that unfairness does in deed happen. Let's also make sure that it
      is our unfairness. " Harry calmly said " Prof. mentioned that there
      will be Inter-Year-Wars and that there would be absorption of
      armies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We will welcome the Inter Year Wars. But rather than being
      absorbed, we would be the one absorbing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? But.." Draco halted as he couldn't find the correct
      objection amongst the many that came to the mind and where each was
      most obvious than the previous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We will need some data. Draco, can you get information on
      senior armies by tomorrow? And Hermione, you and I will need to do
      a bit of research."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On what?" Hermione suspiciously asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Quidditch" Harry said and smiled. Draco noted that Harry
      didn't need to laugh any longer to appear evil.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next day:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Professor Quirell was right." Draco said as he began his
      report " Almost all the army generals of senior years are also
      involved in Quidditch. Roger Davies, Marcus Flint, Oliver Wood and
      Cedric Diggory are the most prominent names who are not only
      heading their Quidditch teams but are also the army generals.
      Tradition of Quidditch makes it a much more popular event and thus
      these generals do tend to ignore their wars. This casual attitude
      also spills over to most of the other soldiers under them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There tactics of wars are shoddy and amateurish. If Quirell
      wants to make them have a decent war, he will have to dictate them
      the strategy. For a while, I almost thought that he is doing this
      to improve the standards of the senior army.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Here take a look at this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco opened a thick black book that he had been carrying. He
      opened it to reveal a parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The parchment display kept on moving, as if it were a slide
      show.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On it visible were pictures of various soldiers of the three
      first year armies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In one corner, Harry spotted Neville, giving a mute shout in an
      endless loop, in another corner Zabini was shooting himself with
      his wand, there were Padma and Parvati Patil aiming their wands at
      each other through their adjacent pictures. Below , there was
      written 'Tap your wand at the picture to see more details."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was intrigued. He found himself looking for the pictures
      of three of them. He found Draco and Hermione first. Draco's
      picture was placed on top of Hermione's picture. Draco was lying
      flat against a rooftop holding out his hand. Below Hermione was
      saying something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't hear those words from the picture, but he knew
      them by heart. He had replayed the whole scene too many times in
      his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the hand let her go. And then she was falling. And then
      she was there back again saying same words that now couldn't be
      heard. And then she was falling again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He quickly took a look at Hermione who was watching the endless
      fall too. Harry was worried what would the situation lead to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thankfully Draco interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" The senior year armies were informed of the absorption much
      before we were informed. They have already been gathering
      information on this page.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They are in fact currently rating us. Through some sort of
      opinion polls or something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Here, see for yourself.." He tapped the wand on a picture full
      of red hair. Ron's chart became visible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Intelligence: 1/5</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Magical power: 1/5</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Loyalty: 3.5/5</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Team work: 3/5</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Other skills: 1/5"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is ridiculous." Hermione suddenly declared. Then after a
      moment, as if to balance the sudden outburst, she asked " But what
      is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Its FB. Floo Book." Draco said with some visible pride. "You
      can take this parchment in any of the books and appear to be busy
      studying in class. Meanwhile you can chat with everyone who is
      checking it out too. Or leave messages to them. Play hangman and
      stuff. Update others on what you are up to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You can also 'like' the messages of others. Or 'curse' them
      through it. A fifth year couple once broke up on FB, and the girl
      cursed him so that everybody who had anything bad to say about him,
      found their thoughts appearing in the comments section. The boy in
      turn cursed her so that each time she opened this page, her actual
      weight became her status message.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's great fun. Everybody is hooked to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at it. "The detail of wars here is impressive. Does
      it even have details of previous quidditch matches?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It has the exact recordings. Plenty of people update it through
      their omnioculars." He then proceeded to show Harry previous
      victory of Slytherin over Gryffindor from various point of
      vantages. With different taps of wands, zoom, vantage control and
      pace control were also possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" How come we've never heard of it?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" It's a recent invention, and is currently used mostly amongst
      seniors. One has to be invited to join. So it hasn't reached first
      years. I naturally got myself invited, being a Malfoy makes it
      easy. From here, getting data of Army generals and other soldiers
      was very easy." Draco concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Who has invented this?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Nobody knows. Its some guy with a profile 'Life-eater'. He
      fashions himself to be .. I am forgetting the name… something like
      'berg', zonkoberg, zukeberg something like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gutenberg, by any chance?" Harry jested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Yes. That's it. Gutenberg. "Gutenberg of Gossip". That's what
      he calls himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that's all you know about him.." Hermione said looking
      rather put off. " then how do you know that this inventor is a
      'he'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok, stop." Harry interjected. He didn't want to go into SPHEW
      business right now. " This thing is distracting us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah." Draco agreed. "There are some powerful enchantments on
      it to do just that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's get back to the topic." Harry decidedly said, shutting
      the book with some effort. " I think we now have all the pieces of
      our plot. This Sunday we begin our attack."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
