<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 22: Harry's Game Part II, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 22: Harry's Game Part II</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One night ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You again?" The portrait asked in mild surprise as she saw
      Harry come back after he had finally been able to avoid the
      question and gain entry due to Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Yeah. Not feeling that sleepy anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That question that you were asking a minute ago, why don't you
      go ahead and ask it once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I am now in the mood to answer you." Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His voice was a mixture of cheer and violence. Words of Hermione
      still ringing in his ears. Any living being would have sensed a
      danger in his voice. But the portrait found such things
      irrelevant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Not a problem young raven. That's what I have to do after all"
      The portrait said</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" So here is the question to grant you entry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why do we play games?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The evening after the game..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood in front of professor Quirrell. They both looked at
      each other as if locked in a wandless wordless dual. Waiting for
      the first move. Waiting for the first counter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I want Wood." Harry broke the silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Expression of Prof. Quirell betrayed his surprise, but only for
      half a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You want wood? Try forbidden forest." Quirell said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" And here I was thinking that I am the only one afflicted with
      a bad case of PJs. I mean Oliver Wood of course Professor. I want
      him for my army."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" No Weasley brothers? So you enjoyed fighting against them so
      much that you would rather prefer them with other armies." Quirell
      continued with a scorn "Tell me Harry, do you think that you did a
      favor to Draco and Hermione by letting them get away with
      weakness?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Do you think Draco or even Hermione would be able to command any
      of the Weasley brothers. Or that it would be their ruin to even
      attempt such a thing?" Professor Quirell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You really want me to believe that it was about Draco or
      Hermione?" Harry laughed "All this time, I was your aim Professor.
      You deliberately tried to disband armies of my friends but let my
      army stand. You knew that I would go against that decision. That I
      would go against you." Harry said with a clinical calm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Correct, but incomplete. I had believed that you would come to
      the explanation of that too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> you to go against me." Quirell said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the first time in the conversation, there was a slight smile
      on his lips. " You see Harry, you have a major weakness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For all that you are, you are still a kid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You have grown up a lot in less than a year. But you are a kid.
      So I am making you grow even more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The way to grow old is not to add up years, it's to subtract
      dependence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before you came to Hogwarts, you still had your intelligence,
      still had your dark persona. But if I am not wrong, and of course I
      am not, you had no influence whatsoever in the muggle world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You were just a too-smart-for-his-own-good 10 year old boy.
      Weren't you?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What changed when you came to Hogwarts? Magic?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not really.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Much more important was the fact that your financial dependence
      was removed. Not having to ask your parents about anything removed
      one dependency.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Being famous removed your dependency of 'reach'. Whatever you do
      now gets talked about. If you manage to remove a snitch from a
      Hogwarts game, there is a good chance that within a short period
      the snitch would be removed from the game itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If anybody else would have done this, the information might have
      never reached beyond a local Floo Book network. But you don't have
      to worry about that. You don't depend on other people's notice. You
      already have it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's what made you grow up. The subtraction of all these
      dependencies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet, you are still just a child.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You felt that you have grown up a little when you broke somebody
      from a prison. Yet you won't dare to stage an act where you defeat
      a false You-Know-Who. You in fact would rather stay in this prison
      that Dumbledore has put you in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You don't even dare to question him properly. You find out that
      Lucious has been sending you correspondence that are seized by
      Dumbledore and you do what about it? Absolutely nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, wait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You don't just do nothing, you actually help Dumbledore in
      keeping you in dark. You tell him about your conversation with
      Lucious, without having figured out its meaning yourself, or even
      trying to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And after all that you still wonder why you ever agreed to break
      in Azkaban prison just because I asked you to?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You may be a rationalist Harry, but as I said, you are still a
      child. Seeking whom to be dependent on. Trying to look good in
      front of your elders." Quirell finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry steadied his breathing. Listening to Professor Quirell
      often made him feel like he was back in that classroom where he was
      being pushed by Derrick and other fifth years. Asking them to stop.
      Begging them to stop. Almost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One night ago..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Why do we play games?" The portrait asked the question
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We don't. We never play games.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Its always for real." Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Correct reply." Portrait finally said and the door swung
      open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She enjoyed these moments. For the simple reason that whenever
      somebody answered her, her portrait moved and the scene that she
      saw changed. It almost felt like having a body. Appropriate, she
      generally told other portraits, that's what an answer should do-
      make your point of view change.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then as the fixed time elapsed, her portrait swung shut
      again. Back to the old scene that showed the same empty gallery and
      the same child standing patiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She did a double take. Not very gracious, she knew, but she
      couldn't help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You?" She asked, her surprise audible " Why didn't you go in?
      You already have answered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I want to find the correct answer, not to answer you
      correctly." Harry patiently replied, something in his voice saying
      that he had all the time in the world. And if he didn't, he would
      fight the world for it, till the time when he had all the time in
      the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mea.." Lady began to ask, but before she could have
      completed the question, the door swung open again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she came back, the question wasn't on her lips, but in her
      eyes. And then there was also fear. The fear of having seen
      something that should have never happened. The fear of impending
      insanity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Why did my portrait move on its own?" She finally managed to
      ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" See." Harry told her in an informative tone that was brutal in
      its politeness "Now you actually want to know. That is what we call
      a real question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The eve after the game..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You may be a rationalist Harry, but as I said, you are still a
      child. Seeking whom to be dependent on. Trying to look good in
      front of your elders." Quirell finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry steadied his breathing. Listening to Professor Quirell
      often made him feel like he was back in that classroom where he was
      being pushed by Derrick and other fifth years. Asking them to stop.
      Begging them to stop. Almost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But not today. Not after all his preparation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" So making me attack you is your brand of kindness, Professor?"
      Harry said back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I am making you attack authority, Harry. I am making you
      attack those on whom you are most dependent. Those you love most,
      and those who you therefore fear the most. As long as you are ready
      to defy Dumbledore, I don't mind you defying me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And you did defy me well. You not only reversed the meaning of
      Inter year wars, but you also ended the relevance of Snitch for any
      Hogwarts game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a nice blow, making sure that I won't fulfill the promise
      that I made to you. You made sure that I won't be able to keep my
      word. One might argue, that I provoked you in the first place so in
      fact it was I in fact who was responsible for snitch's removal but
      why quibble. Let me just congratulate you." Quirell said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry said nothing. He knew that Quirell wasn't finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But what was really impressive Harry, was how you defied
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Using Bulstrode and Zabini to know the detailed results of the
      match. And then in front of Dumbledore you threatened to tell the
      players what their score was going to be. You threatened to tell
      the future to the participants of that future." The smile in
      Quirell's eyes kept on growing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dumbledore must have nearly had a heart attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He is a lover of prophecies after all. And there you were,
      simulating a prophesy through time turner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You threatened Dumbledore to check out what happens when people
      are told about the future that involves them. The McBeth scenario
      and other possibilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In reality, the whole experiment, it was just a way of
      recreating your first encounter with You Know Who, wasn't it? For
      of course you know that You Know Who targeted you because he
      believed in some prophesy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You were openly and finally saying that you were ready to
      question Dumbledore's judgments on the matter. Cross checking his
      story on prophecy. Cross checking the decisions that he made in
      that situation. Seeing if somehow, Dumbledore could have done
      things better. If your parents being dead was due to Dumbledore's
      foolishness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You did all that and people thought you were just making an
      exceptional commentary. Perhaps only 3 people in the entire castle
      understood what you were doing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And only those three people would get how badly did you hurt
      Dumbledore, Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I am proud of you. That was one really good game." Quirell
      concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One night ago…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When her portrait came back to her position, the question wasn't
      on her lips, but in her eyes. And then there was also fear. The
      fear of having seen something that should have never happened. The
      fear of impending insanity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Why did my portrait move on its own?" She finally managed to
      ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" See." Harry told her in an informative tone that was brutal in
      its politeness "Now you actually want to know. That is what we call
      a real question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lady in the portrait continued staring at Harry with puzzled
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" A real question, as in one where an answer is really possible.
      Where there is a reality attached to the answer. So that all one
      has to do to see if the answer is correct is to check the
      facts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Generally you just decide to be 'wise', to be above facts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just now I said 'We never play games. Its always for real.' And
      you said its right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was there a moral supposed to be involved in there
      somewhere?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I could have just as well as given the opposite answer and said
      'We always play games. There is no such thing as real' and
      depending upon the wisdom that was in fashion during your century,
      you could have declared that to be true as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An answer that seems to explain everything and can never be
      proven wrong is not what we call wisdom. We call it bullshit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Update yourself would you. Read Karl Popper, maybe. But don't
      you dare waste my time anymore with stupid questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And as far as your previous question is concerned, the portrait
      didn't open on its own, you asked me a question 'Why didn't you go
      in?', even if it was not a riddle, you did ask it and I did answer
      correctly. You must have realized that at some level so the magic
      that binds you made you open the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And by the way, since I have also answered your latest question,
      namely ' Why did my portrait move on its own?', so you will have to
      open once again. " Harry finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the door swung open once again, the lady in the portrait
      found her point of view changing . This time for real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then she heard the voice of Harry moving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Now I will go inside, rest my sleepy bum that was just kicked
      around by Hermione, and since you did get me thinking, will also
      really try to figure out what my game is all about and why am I
      playing it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice receded. The door got shut. And Harry had finally
      gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An evening after the game..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirell and Harry were still in their conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And only those three people would get how badly you hurt
      Dumbledore, Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I am proud of you. This is one good game." Quirell
      concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I politely disagree." Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You don't think it was a good game?" Quirell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I don't think it was a game." Harry answered " You wanted me
      to defy you, Lucious, Dumbledore etc.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I may have done that, but that's not what I was or am
      doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirell eyed Harry like a Jigsaw puzzle that had mutated and
      grown an extra piece " So what are you doing?" He asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I am eliminating snitches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or in other words, am eliminating boring, meaningless conflicts.
      Conflicts like between us and You-Know-Who for example." Harry
      answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You think conflict with You-Know-Who is meaningless?" Quirell
      asked, a hint of his uncontrolled rage entering in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Of course its meaningless." Harry replied with an air of
      amused obviousness. " He is just the latest dark lord in the line,
      nothing else. First there was Grindlewald, then there was
      You-Know-Who, we don't know who would be next, may be we will have
      You-Know-Who again or just plain simple 'You', Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This will keep on happening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">People will keep fighting this stupid battle over who gets to
      control the wizarding world. And meanwhile, in its isolation, the
      wizarding world just stands stagnated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Have you paid attention to the agenda of these dark lords?
      Pure-blood thing mostly. Many people, common population, believe
      that thing still. It is to their advantage to believe that. While
      we are planning all the things against the dark lords, what are we
      doing about that fundamental problem called bigotry?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Till that exists, anybody can just come over and declare himself
      to be the next Messiah, the next great Dark Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For you know, muggle world has been there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We had a World War I, and then there was this big World War II.
      Everybody kept on looking for villains there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In first world war, we decided that the villain was Germany. We
      made up a treaty, 'Treaty of Versailles' that was not meant to
      maintain peace, but meant to punish Germany, which we of course
      declared to be absolute evil.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We didn't address the basic problems though. Namely, the
      inequality of resources and unfair access to them. Britain
      continued to be a colonial superpower and newly developed nations
      kept trying to get share of the pie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">World war simply had to happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But no, we didn't try to end colonialism after World War I, we
      just chose to make a villain out of Germany.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then came the Muggle Dark Lord , Mr. Hitler, and of course he
      was one terribly flawed human being.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet, Treaty of Versailles and colonialism before that had
      ensured that there had to be a second world war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hitler was the symptom and never the problem. Just defeating
      Hitler and doing nothing else would have made sure that there would
      have been a third world war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then, somebody did see the actual problem rather than just
      the symptom. Somebody called John Maynard Keynes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rather than punishing Germany more severely than last time, or
      trying to convert it into a pastoral state, as was then suggested,
      he instead suggested to go for equality. Showed how it would be
      better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'A peace without a victor' he called it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With fair, or fair enough post war treaties, that resulted after
      that, we didn't see an immediate third world war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the nations were busy trying to fight Hitler's army,
      Keynes went ahead and improved the system. Making sure that there
      was not another immediate 'Dark Lord' in the picture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And as Britain understood the economics, was made to understand
      the reality of economics, it did begin to free its colonies too. Or
      it had to, unless it wanted wrong economics to destroy it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Economics made the world a better place. Not war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And in most of the cases, where there is an ongoing war or a
      possibility of it, the reason is not a 'Dark Lord' , but bad
      handling of economics." Harry concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" So you want to be the John Maynard Keynes of the wizarding
      world. And Bacon. And Newton. That is ambitious, I appreciate that,
      but what's the relevance?" Quirell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" It's simple.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Let's stop fighting our meaningless fights with the Dark Lords.
      Let's stop the games for the power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How about we improve the system rather? Make economy function
      properly and we eliminate multiple future Dark Lords, or at least
      make sure that eliminating them would be seen as a problem
      equivalent to improving our society first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In short I am proposing to eliminate the widespread bigotry
      towards muggles by opening Magical economy to the muggle word. "
      Harry concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a stunned silence, which was the first ever that Harry
      had seen from Professor Quirell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You are asking us to expose our existence to muggles?" Quirell
      asked with disbelief rather than anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I am asking for Iron Curtain to come down, yes." Harry
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You are asking for the age of Witch Hunts to begin again. And
      this time, they will take the aid of your beloved science." Quirell
      said, his voice getting colder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We know that even in actual witch hunts, hardly any real witch
      or wizard was caught.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it does seem that even before we had the secrecy statute, we
      kept our magic to ourselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You are talking about few lost lives of witches and wizards
      during witch hunt, and while I admit that it was really bad and
      insane, I also have to point out that thousands and perhaps
      millions of people, muggles, die daily out of some diseases or
      accidents that Magic could have easily prevented. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" The pressure of past month has gone to you Harry. You are
      talking dangerous nonsense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course magic can do much for muggles, but why should we agree
      to do so. For charity?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's just naïve Harry, men don't work for charity, or give
      something for nothing in return. Human experiments with socialism
      should have taught you that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Muggles are useless for us, and thus there isn't going to be any
      realistic economy between our and their world." Quirell
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But that's precisely the embedded bigotry that I was talking
      about. You believe muggles are useless, so does a huge section of
      wizard society. Even some muggle borns start to believe it after
      they come here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's the fault that we will need to expose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Opening economy to muggles would have plenty of advantages. We
      have a lot to trade.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We can start with their clothing. Jeans and T-shirts are anyway
      a big hit in Hogwarts. And industrial revolution did begin with the
      textile industry, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On more pragmatic issues, I talked about magical medicines
      earlier. There are plenty of magical medicines that could be
      produced better with muggle resourcefulness and their industries.
      Large scale ingredients production could ensure that they are
      produced in lesser time and greater quantity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The magical healers can thus move from mechanical tasks like
      stirring the spoon seven times in clockwise direction and such
      stuff, to do something more research oriented. They could spend
      there time finding cure for more diseases, improving the quality of
      life, and perhaps even improving the lifespan substantially, if you
      get my drift. All that and we get to save millions of muggle lives
      through our medication, and perhaps do a thing or two to get rid of
      the nuclear weapons as well. If saving others' lives does not
      appeal to us, then certainly saving and prolonging our own lives
      must.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So let's drop our stupidity that Muggles' ignorance is our
      bliss." Harry concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You think there would be any political stability where the
      weak and strong coexist?" Quirell asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I am saying that we can end that gap of strength." Harry
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" It would never work." Quirell replied anger now rising from
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" So what would? Your plans to create a fascist government?"
      Harry teased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You naïve muggle raised Fool." Quirell said and no longer able
      to contain himself he finally shouted. "You do not know the stakes
      of your game!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" And you do not know the mistakes of your game." Harry replied
      back with an equal rage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both stared at each other with pure anger for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was the first to recede.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I don't mean to antagonize you." Harry said " In fact, I would
      like to work with you on this plan. It is something so huge that it
      will take the very best of all that we have, and even then it may
      not be done in our life time. The goal of creating an integrated,
      scientific and equal society of Wizards and Muggles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The plus side is that if you agree, then you can shift your
      plans from controlling the power in the wizarding world, to
      controlling the power in the entire world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bigger the stage is, better the stage is. Don't you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirell's eyes had changed from displaying anger when the
      sentence began to complete inscrutability as Harry finished his
      offer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a while he finally said " You want to reach a settlement?
      Fine. " Harry's heart jumped a little to hear these words. It
      settled cozily and smugly in its place though when Harry heard next
      words of Quirell "You came here for Wood didn't you? I grant you
      the permission. Wood would now fight for the Chaos.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that finishes our business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You can leave my office now, Potter."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
