<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 23: Epilogue, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s23" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 23: Epilogue</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry walked away from Quirell's office, he knew that Quirell
      would be considering the offer. After all, it was really 'An offer
      he can't refuse'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But acceptance or refusal, whatever definitive reply Harry got
      in the future, it would tell him the true nature of his
      professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His first phase of the game was now finished. And it was a
      complete success.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet something was missing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Hermione" Harry said as he bumped in her while absent-mindedly
      walking. As he saw her, he finally understood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I was looking for you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I didn't even realize it, but now that I have found you, I know
      that I was looking for you." Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Harry, what are you saying?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Remember last night, when you said that I was trying to change
      the world just to impose what I thought was right? I wanted to say
      that it wasn't like that. I do accept my mistakes. I saw Dobby
      transform himself today through his thoughts and that is the
      biggest correction of a belief I have had since I saw Prof.
      McGonagall turning into a cat. So I do admit my mistakes, and I .."
      Harry continued breathlessly and then stopped, not knowing how to
      explain that he was a good person. That he wasn't running after
      power. That he wasn't doing things 'just because he could', but
      because he genuinely cared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But in that particular instance, he so deeply wanted Hermione to
      believe in him, that he found that he couldn't say these things. As
      if he was afraid of them being rejected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Harry" Hermione said " I heard from Dobby that you made an
      apology to Derrick for provoking him."<br class="calibre4"/>
      " Dobby heard me?" Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" He had removed the magical ear wax by then. And house elves do
      hear better, I guess the makers designed them magically that way so
      that they didn't have to shout orders." Hermione said " Anyway, I
      wanted to say that what you did was a thoughtful and correct thing
      to do Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that's what is so good about you. That is why even though I
      was angry on you, I still never backed away from your plan of
      fighting the snitches of our systems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You may be wrong, in fact, you very often are. But if there is
      one redeeming feature in you Harry, it has got to be your constant
      effort to be less wrong." Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt something ease in him to hear no accusation from
      Hermione, at least for then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled back at him. And they walked away to the
      Ravenclaw dormitory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And finally Harry didn't feel anything lacked in that moment.
      Finally, he felt happy.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
