<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 4: Combat Commentators Part II, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Combat Commentators Part II</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva." Dumbledore said " How nice to see you join us here
      for a change. Does this mean that you are finally going to let Mr.
      Jordan speak his mind out? It shall be a fine game indeed
      then".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wouldn't be a problem headmaster, nobody is listening to him
      right now." Minerva replied "They are all reading this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore adjusted his half moon spectacles and started reading
      the book with a smile that kept on getting more delighted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fascinating." Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The entire game is being predicted." McGonagall said " Every
      goal that is happening , is happening on these pages first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I have been checking it and its almost unbelievably
      accurate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two commentators there, Takamura and Eiji…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall stopped because Dumbledore suddenly chuckled, and
      then she continued " .. they have been arguing amongst themselves
      about the strategy or the lack of it that the two teams have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not only have they been providing better strategies, they are
      predicting the results accurately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Slytherin scored, they had said that the next goal would be
      by Slytherin about a full minute before it happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I thought earlier that it might be just good understanding of
      the game. But this is ridiculous. How could anyone do this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva" A lazy drawl of Snape addressed her " If I may ask,
      where is Harry Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" McGonagall was surprised " What does he has to do with
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on Minerva." Snape replied. " Haven't you learned yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whenever something weird happens, its best to begin with the
      question 'Where is Harry Potter?' "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is absurd." McGonagall was furious " How could you say
      that Severus? If this has been your 'best' way then also ask
      yourself how many times we have been wrong about Harry. How many
      times have we suspected him wrongly?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We are supposed to begin with 'presumed innocent' not 'presumed
      guilty'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I don't know about 'Best', but that is the most Fair way."
      McGonagall concluded her fury and then turned to Dumbledore " And
      what are you chuckling for Albus? Don't tell me you too suspect
      Harry"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva." Dumbledore said smiling "Suspicion is not equal to
      judgment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But don't worry, its not your ignorance but Harry's plot armour
      that prevents you from seeing this.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall didn't know how to reply to that. So she became more
      furious. This was a policy matter. When in doubt, be furious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape however seemed rather interested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very intriguing, Headmaster" Snape said " 'And if I may ask,
      how does one see a plot armor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By making sure that it is your plot." Dumbledore cheerfully
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape looked thoughtful at that and went back to watching the
      game, his mind clearly not interested in it any longer though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore turned to offended McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now come on Minerva, no serious offense seems to have been
      done. It just seems that Mr. Takamura and Mr. Eiji here apparently
      understand the game well. Let's sit and enjoy the three
      commentaries that are on offer" Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At his mike, Lee remained unaware of the other two commentators
      and blissfully continued to report the match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" The quaffle is in John's possession." Lee said "He is moving
      towards Slytherin goal post. This is going to be a close one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To those who were reading the commentary on the floo book, that
      was quite not the case. Like a fast flowing stream, Takamura and
      Eiji were firing their thoughts furiously and texturally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: Close one?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: Of course not. Slytherin is going to easily defend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: Yeah, they will.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: Because Slytherin Keeper Derrick is damn good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: And fat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: Sorry?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: He is fat, or bulky, if one wants to be polite. That
      is the reason why he is proving to be a better keeper. And will
      stop the goal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And he has stopped it." Lee announced with controlled
      excitement. There was once again little response from the crowd.
      What was wrong with people today?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: What is wrong with you?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ok, so Derrick did stop the goal. But you are saying he could do
      it because he was fat?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: Of course. Look at him right now. You see his
      position?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(People reading the quidditch floo book page saw a picture of
      Slytherin Keeper pop next to the commentary)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: Perfectly poised to move in either direction. He is being
      text book perfect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: Right. And check out his position just before the
      goal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: I don't see any… wait a minute, he is a little down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bit lower than the hoop in this one rather than in front of
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: Yes, because he is fat his broom keeps on sinking a
      little bit all the time. Its like a little boy who is wearing pants
      that are slightly big for him. It keeps on sliding down, and then
      at one point he pulls it up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ditto for Derrick. Due to his weight, the broom keeps on sinking
      and after sometime, particularly after a goal attempt, he pulls
      himself up back in front of the loops.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: Hmm. That seems to be true. But what does that have to do
      with his keeping abilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: Its simple. Usually a keeper sees a chaser attack
      while flying on the same level. Or in other words they are eye to
      eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How much of chaser's broom do you think can a keeper see then?
      Just the front end. Like a big dot, a little bit bigger than
      snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: But as the saying goes, war isn't the time to admire
      enemy's horses. Why would the keeper want to see a Chaser's
      broom?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: Just a minute. Flint is going to score a goal in few
      moments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Flint scores." Lee shouted in next few seconds. Again few
      people cheered. Lee swore under his breath and the whisper carried
      throughout the stadium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Good thing was no one was listening. Lee could have declared
      Snape to be a hybrid specie whose proud father and mother were a
      Bulgarian Vampire and a Hungarian Horntail respectively, and still
      gotten away without even a detention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because almost everybody by now, was looking at the commentary
      on Floo Book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: Ya ya. Of course Flint scored. Now don't avoid the
      question. Why would the keeper want to see a chaser's broom?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: To detect feints.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When a keeper is at level with the chaser, its hard to see where
      a broom is turning. All one sees is a dot which then expands
      slightly when the broom turned. One can't really notice what turn
      is going to be made, before it is made.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Its like being in Flatland.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: Fatland? Will you stop your jibes at Slytherin keeper?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura. No, no. Not Fatland but Flatland. How do you mishear a
      written word? But anyway, since the Slytherin Keeper is at slightly
      lower level than that of the attacking chaser, so he doesn't see
      broom as a point but rather in its full length from below.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Can you imagine it, he sees the entire length of the broom. Its
      easier to see the twist and turn that way before they happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So he gets about, let's say, ten percent more time to make a
      save. Making him about that much more successful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In fact he can get more time and be more successful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He just needs to get fatter. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bursts of laughter erupted from the stadium. " And the quaffle
      is.." Lee stopped his commentary in the mid sentence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are laughing now?" Lee's voice suddenly became dry " Why are
      we laughing? Oh I see it. One chaser passing the quaffle to another
      is so funny. Why didn't I notice it before." There was a pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You MORONS!" Lee's dry voice snapped " Did your mothers
      confound your ugly mugs when you were born in a premature
      delivery?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall rose from her seat " Excuse me. It was a terrible
      idea to leave Mr. Jordan alone with the mike" Before going, she
      gave a quick disapproving glance to chuckling Dumbledore who didn't
      seem as if he had heard her at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" If you want to laugh.. " Lee had spotted McGonagall
      approaching him and was now departing with the mike "..wait till
      somebody effing tells a joke."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Floo Book commentary didn't stop though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: Oh dear, our official commentator seems to have taken an
      early leave. Takamura: Ah, I guess it can't be helped then. We will
      have to take over the official commentary as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's laughter suddenly ceased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eiji: Yeah, I guess the players might be able to use a tip or
      two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Takamura: So at the count of zero we will take over the
      commentary. Let's tell the players what they should do. What they
      would do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, yeah. At the count of zero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione set aside her omnioculars after watching Dumbledore
      disappear from the grounds and idly wondered if the headmaster had
      ever read 'Hogwarts: A History'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee's voice disappeared from the stadium. Prof. McGonagall
      stopped chasing him. A faint crackle from the mike made the stadium
      air alive again and ...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zero</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello from Takamura" Harry's voice boomed in the stadium
      instead of Lee's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Goodbye from Kamogawa" Dumbledore's unmistakable voice
      joined in and then there was no more commentary.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
