<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 9: The First Years, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: The First Years</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry entered the empty classroom that was now declared to be
      the Quidditch team's (Or according to Draco, Quidditch Army's)
      headquarters and he saw Draco and Hermione in discussion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are late." Hermione helpfully reminded him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I was just dealing with Weasley twins' war declaration."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you kidding?" Draco asked " Weasley twins are declaring war
      against you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Its their way of being friendly. They wanted to make sure that
      I won't go easy on them." Harry replied with respect in his
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gryffindors." Draco said in a tone that seemed to explain
      everything in one word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So back to our issues. Whom are we selecting?" Hermione
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Well," Draco replied " I am presuming that we three are
      already there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why are we presuming that? I don't even know how to fly
      properly"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You won't need to fly Hermione. " Harry said. "All you would
      have to do is hover. There is a role in my game plan that only you
      can play, so you absolutely have to be there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There better be good reason for that." Hermione said. Harry
      knew that she would have hated to be on the team just because she
      was a general. If she were there, she would want to be a top
      contributor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is." Harry assured her and turned to Malfoy " So that
      makes our numbers three and then Goyle has to be there, he is the
      best flier in the armies by a far range."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and I guess Neville has to be there too. He is already
      well adapted to the Chaos strategy." Draco replied. Inclusion of
      Neville was obvious given his performance, but Draco felt that
      since Harry had just named a Dragon army soldier for the team, so
      Draco should name a Chaos soldier too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That does leave us with two positions." Hermione said. It was
      sort of tough for her to keep up with a Quidditch discussion. She
      was still wondering if she really deserved to be on the team.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The way I see it, I will be playing the position that has to be
      destroyed: The seeker position. " Harry said, "Neville will be the
      keeper, Draco will lead the attack with the chasers." Hermione
      suddenly realized that this was not going in any good direction.
      Harry continued " And Hermione and Goyle would be the beaters.
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's jaws dropped as if they had just discovered
      gravity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Excuse me." Hermione said " Beater? You want me to carry
      around a heavy bat chasing after random bludger balls and hit them
      so that they can hurt other people? I am a Gragner and not a
      Weasley remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No you aren't. Not in this reality." Harry sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco and Hermione exchanged looks with each other. Harry had
      clearly stayed for too long in Dumbledore's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what if you don't need to be?" Harry said. " You see I have
      a Beater-beater strategy. We shall discuss it later. Our current
      question is now who the two remaining 'chasers' should be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on, we are already playing with a seeker who won't seek, a
      beater who is so nice that she won't beat, or fly. So what do we
      need the 3 chasers for? Haven't you thought of a Chaser-chaser
      strategy yet?" Draco couldn't help but ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" No I haven't" Harry seriously replied. " I find this part to
      be the essence of the game. I don't want to change it. We need
      actual players for this post.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So who are the two people who are good in flying, are a bit
      sporty and have excellent co-ordination"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" If its co-ordination we are talking about" Draco said " ..then
      I think I have two names.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Junior level champions of synchronized flying, the Patil
      twins."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
