<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 1: Not One Minute More, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Not One Minute More</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Today had not been a good day. Funerals were never happy. Ben
      Verres was supposed to live a long and healthy life. But now he was
      dead. The doctors had said that it was a fatal heart attack, and
      that there was nothing they could do. Now his beloved grandfather
      was dead, at 72. Harry knew that he was engaging in all sorts of
      all sorts of biases by feeling this bad at his death. After all,
      two people died every single second. The scale of that horror was
      too large as to be able to comprehend. And there was nothing he
      could do about it. Sure, Harry could make everyone in the magical
      world immortal, but that was a drop in the bucket. His Vow bound
      him from tearing down the Statue. It was terrible, but it was
      inevitable. Six billion muggles thinking creatively was far too
      likely to destroy the world. And there was no way to make everyone
      use reasonable precautions. And to do that, he'd have to take over
      the world. Well. It was certainly possible, if he could do it
      safely. But it would be dangerous. He needed a reason to do it, to
      take action. That was obvious. The muggles were advancing and
      growing inexorably. The Soviets had collapsed less than a year ago.
      There were thousands of nuclear weapons in unstable hands.
      Inevitably, the muggles would destroy the world. And even they
      didn't, eventually some muggleborn would be both smart and stupid
      enough to transfigure antimatter. But if he conquered both worlds,
      and bound everyone, that risk would vastly reduced. Now, thinking
      about it, he was bound to do his best to take over the world. He
      needed to start researching.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
