<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 2: Merlin Hospital, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Merlin Hospital</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The next day, Harry decided to consult with his friends, to see
      how he could achieve his goals of taking over the world. First, he
      would go to Merlin Hospital to talk to Moody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Merlin Hospital had been founded shortly after Harry had taken
      the Stone. It was a towering square of stone and iron, looming over
      much of the Hogwarts grounds. It had taken Alastor a full month to
      design and make the protections, and he was still trying to
      improve. To keep other groups from trying to steal the stone, Harry
      had said he had gotten ancient spells for healing, and offered the
      stone to magicians around the world. None had accepted, all saying
      that he was lying or trying to manipulate. So Harry had spent the
      past month and a half healing every witch and wizard in
      Britain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked through the doors, past Amelia Bone's Aurors, whom
      he greeted, and up three flights of stairs to Moody's office. He
      had had to call Moody on a security mirror, and even then had had
      to repeat three security passcodes. He knocked on the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in, son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody could have been rejuvenated with the
      stone. He had decided not to, saying he liked his old appearance.
      His office was filled to the brim with artifacts, a large number of
      which Harry thought had been in Dumbledore's office. There was also
      a can of Comed-Tea lying inexplicably on the surface of Moody's
      desk. "What did you want to talk to me about? You said it was
      urgent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to take over the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody spit the can of Comed-Tea, which he had unthinkingly
      raised to his lips. "What? You want to what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take over the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How exactly are you planning on doing this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was what I wanted to talk to you about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, son. I will tell you this now. You can't. Yes, you
      are the head of the Wizengamot, and broadly respected, and hold the
      Elder Wand, and have defeated a mighty dark wizard. Dumbledore held
      all of those too, and yet he did not control even Britain. And he
      was also an enormously powerful wizard, while you are a twelve year
      old boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Voldemort and the Death Eaters are gone now. There are very
      few on the Wizengamot who oppose me. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Son, even if you get the Wizengamot, even if you control all of
      Britain, that's still not even close to achieving your goals.
      Britain is maybe the seventh most powerful country, and that's
      counting the Americas. If you just count Britain, we're probably
      15th. We don't come close the Russians or the Turks, yet alone the
      Indians or the Chinese. You try to conquer any countries and then
      the Chinese or the Indians will take an army of more people than
      live in Britain, and kill you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but I have the Stone. I also have the power of
      Science."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really son? Knowing a bit about science isn't going let you
      defeat countries twenty times the size of Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have the Philosopher's Stone, an unlimited budget, and the
      background to recognize all of the stupid ways you fight wars. No
      one has any security. I can launch coups, and the people will
      support me. I can also use scientific experiments to tap the
      unlimited potential magic affords us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two things son. One, what do you mean by the stupid ways we
      fight wars? And Two, what unlimited potential are you talking
      about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, well there are deadly poisons that you can put in someone's
      tea, you can put a bomb in an envelope and give it to an owl, you
      tell your Patronus to find Lord Voldemort and then just take all
      the Aurors there. Honestly your wars should last five minutes. And
      for two, every you cast Aguamenti you create stuff out of thin air.
      And the energy needed for that is enough to wipe all of Scotland
      off the map."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What." Harry heard a faint sputtering noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok. Um. Those are all new ideas, and I can't think off any
      immediate reason why they are terrible. With that in mind, I'll at
      least try to help you. Now, why are you trying to do this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To put it simply, the Muggles have weapons that can destroy a
      city."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What. How? The greatest magics of the Founders couldn't do
      this. How could the Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is far too complicated to explain. They can do this, and
      they have tens of thousands of these weapons. The Russians just
      collapsed, and now many of the weapons are in unstable hands. Using
      even a couple hundred could send the Earth into a deep and dark
      winter. I have a Vow not to take any chances in the safety of the
      world. This is a huge chance. I have to this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody now had an terrified expression on his face. "Alright son,
      I'll help you because you have managed to convince me. Is there
      anyone else you have told?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amelia Bones and Hermione Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good idea."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
