<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 4: Hogwarts, Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Hogwarts, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hogwarts Part 1</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So?" Hermione asked. "How did Luna know your secrets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She appears to be able to figure things out from very little
      evidence. She also probably guessed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Knowing that you're Tom Riddle before you even arrive at
      Hogwarts last year isn't just being good at figuring things
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Her parents also conducted rituals to boost her
      intelligence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They did what? Do you have any idea how dangerous that is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The only one I know of that could do that involves mass
      sacrifice of Acromantulas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you had read your textbooks, you would know that they are a
      Class 5X monster, which is intelligent, massive, and eats people.
      Anything they tried would probably be illegal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. She also happens to be insane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guessed that from the helmet. And the stilts. And the
      basilisk scale shirt. Did you patch things up with Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. He still hates me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Killing someone's father tends to do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was self-defense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know. This has to be difficult. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, this hurts my plans. Without Malfoy's seat, I might not
      be able to push the Elective seats through the Wizengamot. As long
      as the Longbottoms agree to it, it should still pass. Speaking of
      which, where is Neville? The train is leaving in five minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant because he was your friend, but nevermind. I think
      Neville is over there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah." Harry and Hermione waved to Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Harry, Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How are you?" Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm good. How did you guys do on the O. ?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well enough to get our seats." Hermione responded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great. Are you excited to sit on the Wizengamot?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Considering my first experience with it was being on trial, not
      really." Hermione replied. "Are you trying out for General this
      year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. Apparently the new defense professor is real good."
      Neville answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah, Remus Lupin. My dad knew him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thankfully, the Sorting Hat took even less time this year than
      last (Lovegood, Luna was a RAVENCLAW!, of course), and everyone
      managed to get to dinner, and then to bed quickly. By a fortuitous
      coincidence the school year started on a Friday, and classes on a
      Monday, and so Harry had nothing to do but plan for the Wizengamot
      meeting on Sunday.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
