<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 8: The First Battle, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: The First Battle</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had finally managed to convince Luna to take an
      Unbreakable Vow not to destroy the world, with the help of a
      prisoner Amelia Bones had lent him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the first battle of the year, Professor Lupin had made a
      rather more complicated game. Team A had to eliminate everyone on
      Team B to win, and vice versa, but for Team C they had to eliminate
      both teams. The Sunshine Regiment which was now lead by Blaise
      Zabini had drawn Team B, Dragon Army which was still led by Draco
      had drawn Team A, and of course, Chaos Legion, which had elected
      Neville, had drawn Team C.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The teams started in the middle of the forest. Chaos Legion was
      about half a mile away from the other two teams, and they were
      about a quarter mile away from each other. Neville gathered Chaos
      Legion around him just before the battle was to begin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay everyone, we have a tough situation. We have to stun
      everyone in both armies, before the other teams do so. Luckily, we
      have a plan. We believe that Sunshine and Dragon will ally and
      march towards us. We also think that they will hide people. To
      prepare for this, me and my Lieutenants have learnt a new spell
      that will allow us to find anyone. We will be sending people to
      find them, while the main body of the army will scatter and wait
      for them to fight it out. Does everyone understand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were numerous nods of approval.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok, let's get moving. Lieutenants will take broomsticks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and the other Lieutenants went to the broomsticks.
      Meanwhile, the other members of the Chaos Legion begin to scatter
      through the forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had decided that he was going to launch a preemptive
      strike on Granger's army. Dragon Army had twelve of its members
      march to where Sunshine was headquarted, and another two hide in
      the woods.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise and his Sunshine Colonels had decided to ally with Dragon
      first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expecto Patronum</em>. Go to Draco Malfoy, and tell him
      that we wish to ally with Dragon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In front of Draco, a shining fox popped up, and said in Zabini's
      voice "Blaise Zabini says 'We wish to ally with Dragon." Draco
      smirked. "Heh. Tell Zabini that we will meet him at the halfway
      point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise's Patronus popped back up in front of him. "Draco says
      'We will meet him at the halfway point.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colonel Granger said "There's no way Draco actually allies with
      us. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">General Zabini replied "I know. That's why your squad is
      backup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile, Harry was enjoying flying again. Harry had been
      assigned to Dragon Army. He were quickly flying far above.
      Thousands of feet below, Harry thought he saw Sunshine and Dragon
      marching towards each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco and his army saw Sunshine marching towards him. They
      appeared in complete disorder, and it seemed Granger was in the
      back. He smiled again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Granger and her squad saw Dragon Army. They quickly moved
      faster, trying to close the distance to Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco and his army moved towards Sunshine, unaware of the
      disillusioned Sunshine Soldiers around them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise smiled. "Join ranks with Dragon now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco yelled "Get them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dragon opened fire on a seemingly unprepared Sunshine. Four of
      them fell immedialty. Meanwhile, Hermione's squad took out the
      Dragon Commanders. It took a few seconds for Dragon Army to realize
      that all of their commanders had fallen in turn. Before they could
      wonder how, Sunshine had counterattacked. The remains of Dragon
      tried to scatter. Only one of the three made it. Blaise had kept
      seven out of his twelve soldiers. Dragon's broomsticks had both
      fallen to Sunshine's, and Sunshine's in turn. Blaise smiled. "Now
      we hunt for Dragon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hovering far ahead, Harry smirked. He plunged lower over the
      forest, and began casting "<em class="calibre7">Homenum Revelio</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Below him, Mandy Brocklehurst and Vincent Crabbe felting a faint
      swooping sensation. They barely had time to wonder what it was
      before Harry dove out of the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast "<em class="calibre7">Somnium</em>." Nearly a dozen times before they
      could respond. Neither had shields up, and Mandy fell immediately.
      Crabbe managed to fire back one stunner before he got knocked out.
      Meanwhile, Seamus had gotten the one stay-behind Sunshine. Harry
      then cast a Patronus. "Tell Neville that I got the last of Dragon.
      We can now attack Sunshine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chaos began marching towards Sunshine. Meanwhile, Harry and
      Seamus swooped towards the main body of the Chaos army. Sunshine
      did not manage to find the last Dragon. Chaos attacked the
      unprepared Sunshine Regiment, and three fell immediately.
      Hermione's squad charged towards Chaos. She cast "Somnium" at
      Neville. Upon seeing this, Harry suddenly cast "<em class="calibre7">Homenum
      Revelio</em>". When Hermione felt the swooping sensation, she
      realized what had happened. Her squad still went down, though they
      took out two more Chaos Legionarres.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took a couple of minutes to find the last Dragon. Chaos had
      been victorious again.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
