<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle - Origins of a Dark Lord - Tom Riddle - Origins of a Dark Lord Chapter 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle - Origins of a Dark Lord"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Tom sat in a chair in the garden, reading a short <em class="calibre7">Wilderness
      Survival Guide</em> he had once stolen from the leavings of an
      adoption.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't expect to find himself lost in the woods, but it was
      certainly more educational than the children's books in the
      "Library" at the home. "How to collect rainwater" beat reading
      foolish rhymes about monkeys, certainly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The notes on how to build a fire were interesting as well,
      although, Tom had tried it before, and found it was a thousand
      times easier than the book would lead you to believe; rather than a
      few sparks and smoke, the wood would almost burst into flame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was unfortunately tricky to read with only one good eye, as
      the other was half swelled shut. Tom had informed Madam Chani that
      he had fallen upon questioning. <em class="calibre7">Not that she would have cared
      either way.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had tried to fight back before, his poor efforts only
      encouraging more physical assaults, but when he tried to ignore it
      altogether, they simply kept escalating until Tom ended up saying
      or doing something even more provoking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had been taking mental notes though; Jameson relied on
      surprise attacks and his large body mass. Yesterday the large youth
      came out of nowhere with the punch to his face. Perhaps he could be
      teased about missing his other eye, and then Tom could dodge and
      trip him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It might work, but then again he may do something totally
      different… I would have to consider every possible move he could
      make…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom rubbed his forehead. <em class="calibre7">Time to plan to defeat my enemies
      later.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom would have liked to have his friends around him as he read;
      they were better company than most of the children here.
      Unfortunately, being so friendly with snakes only added to the
      scorn he received, so he only talked with his friends in private. A
      few were sleeping in the bushes now - he had briefly woken them to
      say hello when he came out, but then let them be for now. If he
      wanted to talk to them, they would be there waiting for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The side door opened and Matthew came walking around the bushes.
      He saw, but did not acknowledge, Tom, aside from walking out toward
      the concrete wall behind him, and jumping up to have a seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom went back to reading his short book; there were diagrams on
      how to build a snare to catch a rabbit, including vivid
      descriptions of how to exactly skin and gut the creature. Tom was
      so absorbed in the book that he never noticed Nickerson come out
      until the boy asked, "What are you doing up there, Merrick, you
      goon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked up to see Nickerson talking to Matthew, who was still
      perched on the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were bothering me, so I came out here." Tom took note of
      the utter blankness in his expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you ran away!" Nickerson was laughing now, but Matthew
      stared in the opposite direction and barely said, "Hmm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nickerson seemed to lose some interest in Matthew when the boy
      provided absolutely no real response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom felt real envy; if Nickerson had bothered and called him
      names, he might have been able to pretend to not be angry, but it
      was obvious that Matthew didn't care what anyone did to him.
      <em class="calibre7">That's the trick; I need to learn how to appear so careless, or
      rather be so careless.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nickerson looked down at Tom, a sneer on his face, clearly still
      interested in picking on someone. Tom just looked back at him - and
      imagined Nickerson had been caught in a snare, and he was starting
      to skin him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently Nickerson had remembered something else which
      required his attention, because he simply turned and walked back
      into the house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom set his book down and hopped up the wall to Matthew, "How
      did you do that?" He asked the odd boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do what?" Matthew was still absentmindedly looking at the
      trees.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A little irritated, Tom explained, "How did you just brush
      Nickerson off like that? When I try it doesn't work…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nickerson? Is he the one who was talking to me a minute
      ago?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes," Tom replied, slightly confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did I brush him off? He wasn't worth paying attention to, so I
      wasn't." Matthew replied before he hopped down from the wall. He
      started to walk away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Am I not worth paying attention to?" Tom asked the boy as he
      left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Matthew just shrugged his shoulders and went back inside the
      house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It seems like everyone is beneath him, not even worthy of
      consideration. The bullies can't bully him because they don't even
      exist to him…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom couldn't simply look down on the bullies that way; they were
      stupid, but they were stronger than Tom, and if they tried, could
      kill him. He just couldn't ignore that, he was smarter and that
      ought to mean more than being stronger, or tougher.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He went back to reading his book, reviewing especially the
      diagrams of the rabbit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Really, there was quite a bit of useful information in this
      little book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Tom's least favorite part of the day, Wireless Radio
      time… Why Madam Chani insisted that an hour of listening to Goofy
      Gary on that bloody box every day was necessary, Tom could not
      understand, except perhaps it gave her more time when she didn't
      have to deal with the "runts", as she called them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was on the end of the sofa, being squished between the
      armrest and Nickerson. Nickerson was Jameson's "best friend", but
      Tom considered him more of a minion. Nickerson was smaller than
      Jameson, and therefore less scary. Also, his eyes couldn't
      withstand a staring contest the way Jameson's could. Unfortunately,
      he was far crueler than Jameson, perhaps because he wasn't as
      strong or forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had noticed Jameson rush out of the house crying earlier; it
      had filled him with a great satisfaction, knowing that he had at
      least a few true friends. Friends who looked up to you, and did
      anything you told them too without question or hesitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I hope it was Apophis who did it; Jameson might not ever
      come back…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wasn't really listening to the program, he was picking at
      the worn out armrest on the sofa. He had no interest in the erratic
      behavior of the voice actor playing the part of a clown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The clown's overly flamboyant voice rang through the speakers.
      "Oh oh! Knock knock! Somebody is at the door! I wonder who it could
      be." Several of the younger children tensed up in anticipation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder if it's Mailman Sam… Like it is every other day, half
      way through the show…" Tom said sarcastically to himself. Not
      quietly enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nickerson punched Tom hard enough to make him wince. Nickerson
      wasn't strong enough to get away with hurting most boys, but Tom
      knew better than to retaliate right now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up Riddle, nobody cares who you think it is," he snorted
      to the air above Tom's head as the voice of "Mailman Sam" rang out
      with "The Daily Delivery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Radio time is ridiculous, I don't want to listen to this
      childish program, and even less do I want to sit with these idiots.
      I wish the radio would just blow up…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom dreamed, he visualized the power suddenly surging and
      causing the radio to erupt in a shower of –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*<strong class="calibre8"><em class="calibre7">CRACK*</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ancient wireless set suddenly seemed to split in two - smoke
      started billowing out of what used to be the set, and most of the
      children had jumped up at the sudden noise and flash of light, and
      were now either crying or yelling for help. Tom remained seated on
      the sofa, wide-eyed and smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It happened! How? How!?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This couldn't be a coincidence, not this time. There were a lot
      of coincidences around him that seemed incredible, although he
      usually figured they were simple accidents. When he was younger, he
      thought he might be a djinn, or a fairy changeling, for his wishes
      would come true - but not very often. Not nearly often enough, and
      Tom was too clever and rational to really believe in Grimm's
      tales.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The wireless had a broken tube when Madam bought it, she
      often complained about how quiet it was. It's amazing it lasted
      this long.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only other child who wasn't in some state of high emotion
      over the loss of the radio was Matthew. The boy was in a chair on
      the other side of the room staring at the smoking ruin with a blank
      expression, and his head tilted in mild curiosity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Chani was still away, and she delegated responsibility to
      the oldest boy, Dennis Bishop. Madam considered him to be the most
      responsible, even though he was anything but. Obviously, as he
      wasn't bothering to unplug the wireless. Instead, he herded the
      children into the kitchen, "It's time for supper!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't really care if the older boy left the radio there to
      burn down the house, he half hoped it would. So he got up to join
      the others in the kitchen for their meager supper, noticing that
      Matthew at least had the presence of mind to go and open the window
      to air out the lingering smoke in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Tom got to the kitchen there was only a couple of
      sandwiches left, he made sure nobody was looking, took one of the
      cheese sandwiches, stuffed it into his pocket and started eating
      another now. He had grown tired of going hungry. Not so much
      because of how it made him feel, but rather because he knew he
      would stay small and weak unless he ate more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't feel good to steal food simply because he wanted it;
      it felt nice to stick it to Madam Chani and anybody else who might
      care.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was getting easier and easier to take what he needed; the
      pantry was only warded by a simple padlock. So when Tom had a few
      free moments, and the kitchen was empty, he would simply use a coin
      he had filed down on the sidewalk to unscrew the hinges and open
      the door from the other side to stock up on food.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The children were expected to all sit around the large oak table
      for meals, so Tom joined the others and took a seat beside a boy
      named Stephenson; he was a year younger than Tom and smaller as
      well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No wonder he's so small, he isn't eating anything…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you ever eat? I know it isn't much, but you have to
      be hungry…" Tom asked the sad looking boy as he took a bite of his
      own stale sandwich.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't." The boy said it very meekly and in a tone that made
      Tom curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you ill? You should ask to see a doctor if…" Tom stopped as
      he noticed that Stephenson was staring at Nickerson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he stealing your food straight up? Or is he threatening you
      in some way?" It wasn't really a question; Tom was familiar with
      Nickerson's tactics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The runty child beside him was almost too scared to speak, Tom
      hated that. At least he tried to stand up for himself when it was
      wise to do so, and take vengeance for the times when it wasn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The smaller boy sighed and very quietly said, "He said every
      time he catches me eating more than my share, he's to give me a
      hard punch in the stomach to get his share back…" The boy stared at
      the table, never looking at Tom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does he consider your fair share?" Tom asked, already
      suspecting the answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, I started eating an apple yesterday, and he
      walked past as I was half finished, and he knocked it out of me
      hand, and hit me…" The boy's voice was sinking as he spoke. Tom
      wasn't in the habit of feeling sorry for someone too pathetic to
      stand up for himself, but he truly hated bullies trying to dictate
      one's eating habits.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom decided if anyone had to, he would dictate when Stephenson
      ate. He took his second sandwich out and passed it under the table
      to set it on the boy's lap. "Take it back to your room, and eat it
      under the blankets if you must," Tom told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy looked at Tom in disbelief. "Thank you, Riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom disregarded that and went on, "I'll get you food any time
      you like, and I've found a way to get into the pantry with… I can
      get in is the point. And stop looking so happy, or Nickerson will
      know something is going on…" Although, it was the way the boy was
      looking at him that made him feel uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the mention of Nickerson's name, Stephenson looked over at
      the bully with an expression Tom was all too familiar with:
      loathing. "I hate him and Jameson too… I'm glad Jameson got hurt
      today somehow, he deserved it. I wish Nickerson would get hurt
      too," he said in a fierce little voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smiled at that, and glanced up at the ceiling fan spinning
      overtop the boy's head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It would be nice if it simply fell on him and knocked some
      sense into his head…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom almost actually expected it to fall, and when it didn't, he
      realized he was mildly disappointed that his wish hadn't come
      true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Don't be ridiculous, if you want it to fall on him climb up
      and loosen the bolts and attach a string to pull when he steps
      under, wishes don't come true.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hours later, Madam Chani returned. Tom was in his shared room
      upstairs at the time, but he knew she was back by her scream, "TOM
      RIDDLE! GET DOWN HERE!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom reluctantly got up and walked past his roommates, who were
      whispering about what he may have done this time. At the head of
      the stairs, he could see her down below, clearly furious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he got to the bottom and approached her, without a word she
      grabbed him by the collar of his nightshirt, and roughly pulled him
      toward her office. The old woman was surprisingly strong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once inside, she flung Tom into the chair across from her desk
      and stood there facing him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jameson says you snuck into his room and put a snake in his
      bed! Nickerson saw you in the garden grabbing the snake and putting
      it in your jacket!" Her face grew more florid as she spoke. "The
      snake bit Jameson! When he climbed into bed! He had changed into
      his nightshirt, and the snake bit him! On a most delicate
      spot!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom figured if the boy had died this would be a different
      conversation, so he didn't have to ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam, I swear I did not smuggle a snake and put it in
      Jameson's room… That is the absolute truth." Tom said it without
      hesitation and looked her in the eye the entire time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wavered for a moment, almost as though she believed him - he
      was telling the truth, after all. But she gritted her teeth and
      said, "You are to be confined to the cupboard under the stairs for
      two days!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Only two?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't mind the solitude of the small dark space if he had
      to endure it; it was quiet in there, and he could think about
      things more easily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Madam…" With that he got up and made his way to his "cell",
      with Madam Chani following closely behind to secure the door on
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had been sitting cross legged in the dark for a while now,
      he had lost track of time. Sitting in the dark quietly for long
      enough could sometimes make you forget you even had a body; you
      were just a floating consciousness in the void.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sudden flood of light brought Tom back to reality, the door
      opened and somebody was shining a flashlight in on him, but he
      couldn't make out who it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You like to play with snakes, Riddle? Let's see how you like
      being cooped up with one for the next two days…" It was Nickerson's
      voice. He threw something into the cupboard before the door was
      closed and locked again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Hello masster."</em> It was Jade, a most beautiful purple
      garden snake. Jade had landed on his chest, and immediately
      slithered up his torso, and perched around his shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom stroked the snake's head, "<em class="calibre7">Thank you for sstriking enemy
      for me. I did not know who had done it when I had heard."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"</em><em class="calibre7">I bit fat boy ssingle time, would have bit again,
      but fat boy tasstess like sspoiled meat."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"</em><em class="calibre7">thssss thsss thssss"</em> Tom let out a hissing
      laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Masster bringss me ratss… I will always be
      yourss."</em>Jade the snake said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">At least I have some good company for the next couple of
      days. And an obedient servant... I wonder...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two votes were taken by the children a week later. Tom had to
      give Madam Chani credit for letting them choose, rather than her
      normal routine. The first decision went in Tom's favor, the second
      did not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was pleased to see only two children raised their hands to
      cast votes for buying a new wireless set and skipping this summer's
      "outing". He was less happy when everyone but himself, Matthew and
      Stephenson raised their hands to vote for a seaside trip. "Such a
      treat!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now here they were. Tom could swim as well as any other
      child, but he saw no point in splashing around in the water, or
      trying to touch the bottom. Besides, it was near impossible to
      defend yourself in the water if Jameson or Nickerson decided to
      attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead he was sitting in the sand beside Matthew. As usual,
      neither of them had spoken in a while - there was some type of
      quiet bond between them which Tom couldn't quite understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Matthew barely broke the silence when he quietly asked Tom, "How
      long do you think it would take a person to drown?" He wasn't
      looking at Tom when he spoke, but rather staring out into the waves
      where the other children were playing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Tom admitted. "I suppose it depends how long
      they can hold their breath, and probably a bunch of other things…
      Like if somebody was holding you under and you were panicking or if
      you had your foot caught under a rock, but could catch a breath
      when a wave broke once in a while…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you ask?" Tom asked Matthew, with the same emotionless
      tone that the boy used to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just curious; it seems like a bad way to go if it takes
      longer than a few moments…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Are you implying it would be a good way to kill someone
      because of how torturous it would be?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't dare be the first one to imply they might have common
      interests. Instead, he said, "Yeah, I expect it would be a bad way
      to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to go and sit up on that rock that sticks out from
      the cliff," Matthew said as he stood up and turned to walk
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">To jump off? Or perhaps plot a murder?</em><em class="calibre7">Is even my
      presence too much for Matthew?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom continued to sit in the sand and watch the waves, ignoring
      the children playing and laughing. He was perfectly content to sit
      here alone and ponder things. As much as he enjoyed being alone, he
      could hardly blame Matthew for leaving him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Alone is all an orphan has. Alone protects one.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom noticed there were some sticks lying around, so he collected
      a couple of handfuls and brought them back to his spot. He dug a
      hole in the sand and set the sticks up in a teepee fashion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I wish I had a magnifying glass; I could start my own little
      fire here.</em> Tom stared at the base of the pile and imagined
      what that would look like…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There would be a focused point of light and heat, a blazing
      white point on the surface of the tinder. The point would start to
      char the wood, and it would begin to smoke…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although he was barely aware of it, the picture in his mind was
      becoming reality, the wood beginning to billow wisps of smoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Faster and faster it would heat up, a spark perhaps, a brief
      yellow flame and more smoke… Another stronger flame, a whip of fire
      which circles the pile and ignites it…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom snapped to reality when he felt the first wave of heat and
      heard the pop of the wood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stared at it for a moment, and then looked around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm dreaming. I must be. This can't be...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom stopped and looked at the crackling flames in his small fire
      pit. He reached out and waved his hand over - and then again, but
      this time much slower, and right through the flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hurt, but he didn't hasten. Slowly he withdrew and looked at
      his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Red and throbbing… That fire certainly hurt me, and I've
      never felt pain in a dream, though my dreams...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom thought about the pain, it was certainly real… A hot
      throbbing sharpness… He watched his hand turn from red slowly to
      pink and then back to a more pale white again as the pain
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That certainly points towards this being a dream… How can I
      be certain?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wasn't completely sure that he was dreaming, but he had to
      consider it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There have been other odd happenings around me which other
      people had been influenced by… They can't all be dreams… I have to
      sit down and write this all out and figure out…</em><em class="calibre7">What is
      going on…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked up at the cliff where Matthew was sitting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">He's the only person I dare speak to about
      anything.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom stood up and turned his back on the small fire that burned
      in the sand. As he stepped away, it flared up - burned away to ash
      - then nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He made his way up the shallow incline of the hill and slowly
      walked towards the ledge where the boy was sitting. He couldn't
      help but think how easy it would be to push the boy into the sea
      since nobody had seen him approach, planning it perfectly. He had
      more important things to do with Matthew now, and besides, that boy
      would be the last person he'd ever kill, even if he could easily
      get away with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked over, scuffing his feet on the stone to announce his
      presence to the boy, but Matthew never turned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom sat beside him and looked out at the water from this new
      perspective.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">From here, those other children simply look like tiny
      insects, splashing around in a gigantic natural force which they
      can't even begin to see.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom waited a few minutes before speaking, giving Matthew the
      chance to break the silence, but he never did. So he decided to
      speak in the same strange way that Matthew would have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How would a person know if they are dreaming?" Tom didn't look
      at Matthew directly, but he was watching out of the corner of his
      eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy didn't hesitate for a moment with his reply, nor did he
      make any move to look at Tom. "I don't think they would, until they
      woke up…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom waited; normally, silence would provoke a longer explanation
      with people, but not Matthew. So he asked, "How do you wake up
      then, if you wanted to make sure?" while looking at the other
      boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In my dreams, I sometimes wake up if I'm about to die. Other
      times I notice things just aren't right and I snap awake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can't ever really remember my dreams, and when I
      do…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Couldn't I just ask you if I am dreaming? I mean, if you know
      you're awake, then you can tell me this is real life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Matthew still was absentmindedly looking out at the sea as he
      replied, "I guess, but if you were dreaming, isn't that what I'd
      say anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know…" Tom admitted and looked away. He let the silence
      hang for a few more moments, hoping the other boy was thinking
      about what Tom had said. "Well - would you just tell me, if this is
      a dream? For my own satisfaction?" Tom would never ask such an odd
      question to anybody else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Matthew actually turned, looked at him briefly, and then turned
      away. "From what I can tell, I'm not dreaming. I don't think you
      are either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't know what to do with that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well - but what if I start doing crazy things, like creating
      fire from nothing, or blowing things up with my mind? Then it must
      be a dream, don't you think? Nobody can do those things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Matthew took a brief moment to reply this time. "Maybe they
      can't… If you are dreaming, what does that make of me then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom considered that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Is this a dream? He seems to be real; this all seems to be
      real…</em><em class="calibre7">There could be some weird effect that caused the
      fire, I don't know much about science…</em> <em class="calibre7">All the other
      coincidences though?</em><em class="calibre7">I don't think there is any question
      that I can talk to snakes…</em><em class="calibre7">Maybe I'm crazy, but they do
      like me and respond to me, they even follow complicated
      orders.</em><em class="calibre7">I've used snakes to influence other people, I think
      that's proof that I can speak with them…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom felt somewhat relieved; it seemed likely he was neither
      dreaming nor crazy, but another panic was building up because he
      couldn't understand what was happening recently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, thank you Matthew… I don't think you have to worry, I
      don't think I'm dreaming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, alright."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom stood up and took one last look out at the vast power of the
      sea. He knew about tides and currents and all that…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Is it normal to be able to actually feel that power coursing
      through the air? I can smell it, I can almost see it.</em><em class="calibre7">If I
      wanted I might reach out and touch it…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had enough to think about, so he turned and walked back down
      towards the beach area.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Halfway down the path he noticed a break in the trees, another,
      far less-used path. He followed it. It wound its way around to the
      other side of the peak, and apparently ended with a cliff
      overlooking the sea. He couldn't see the other children from this
      position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked around, and up the cliff. He noticed a small cave
      about twenty feet up - it was very steep, but it looked possible to
      climb up…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had noticed recently he was getting stronger and more
      athletic, yet even still he found it surprisingly easy to climb and
      pull himself up the rocks to get into the small opening of the
      cave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once inside he could hear a powerful rushing sound,
      reverberating through the cave, and Tom could again feel the raw
      power in the air, and he <em class="calibre7">knew</em> the sea was flowing through
      the rocks somewhere in here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom followed the passage despite the fading light, his hand on
      the wall and his feet taking cautious steps. After a few minutes of
      walking, and taking two right turns, he started to see light again.
      A hole in the side of the cave showed the cliffs, the shore, and
      the powerful rushing stream of sea that passed through the side of
      the cavern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wanted to get closer to the rushing water; it was calling to
      him. He took the small leap down to a ledge, and another small jump
      got him down onto the sand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once he was down in the bottom of the cavern, he realized he
      wasn't alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sound of his entry had startled a girl over in the corner,
      and she shrieked. Tom noticed that she wasn't alone either, there
      was a boy with her, he had his shirt off and they were pressed
      close to each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked at them curiously. He knew what they were doing right
      away, but he had never actually seen people kissing and necking, or
      even thought about it. The boy yelled out, and Tom realized it was
      Dennis Bishop. All he really knew about the boy was that he was
      fourteen, large for his age, which meant that not even Jameson
      picked on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing here, Riddle? Creeping around on us, like a
      pervert! Here's proof that you're mental!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom stared at him blankly, and then he looked at the girl. He
      never did much with the girls on the other wing of the home, but
      his irrepressible memory helpfully provided details. Amy Benson,
      either 11 or 12.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I asked you, what the hell are you doing!" Bishop was
      approaching Tom now, making his way around the shore of the vast
      rushing power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For some reason Tom felt a lot more confident than he had any
      right to be. Bishop could easily wipe him out if it came to a
      fight, so he used his most natural weapon instead, that of
      words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm exploring. I see you were doing some exploring of your own,
      over there with Benson." Tom was standing straight as he said it,
      and there was no hint of panic in his voice. Something was giving
      him courage and strength.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That statement rattled Bishop; he stopped advancing for a moment
      and hesitated. "You had better keep your bloody mouth shut, Riddle.
      Or else I'll bring you back to this cave, and only one of us will
      ever leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">He's offering me an out, my silence in exchange for my
      escape… I should take it. Yet, he presumes too much…</em><em class="calibre7">Maybe
      he never leaves… I am growing tired of these ignorant children
      showing me just how superior they are, when they are not…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How's this for a deal?" Tom started his proposition with open
      arms and a smile. "I won't tell anybody what I saw here, and I
      definitely won't exaggerate it to make it look much worse…" Tom
      paused to let that sink in and tapped his cheek with a finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In exchange, you will now do me favors, whatever I need,
      whenever I need it. No questions asked, otherwise I'll have quite a
      tale to tell anybody who is willing to listen…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom took a breath, he had spoken a little faster than he had
      meant to, he was getting a little anxious as he spoke, and he was
      sure Bishop had noticed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The older boy made his way forward again and said, "How's this
      for a deal, I'm going to just break one of your ribs. You keep
      quiet and I won't break anymore, but if you –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bishop was cut off mid-sentence by some type of mild earthquake,
      a wave crashing against the cave perhaps. With his thought cut off,
      he went quiet and started moving forward faster. He was about ten
      feet away now, and Tom could read murder in his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All his senses felt heightened: the smell of the salt, the sound
      of the surf, the color of the sea... and that one other thing, the
      sense of rushing power was almost overwhelming. Tom closed his eyes
      and let the sound and feeling of the rushing water engulf him. He
      almost felt like he was on fire, except it was pleasant, his entire
      body was tingling and vibrating with some force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he opened his eyes Bishop was almost on him, but it didn't
      matter anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some intuition kicked in, and Tom mentally reached out for that
      power in the air, he grasped it and used his hands to direct some
      type of invisible force at Bishop. The older boy was lifted from
      his feet and thrown back a great distance. He landed in an awkward
      position, groaned, and moved no more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amy screamed and ran over to her swain. As she shook him, he
      groaned some more. She kept crying and yelling something
      incomprehensible, trying to slap him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to Tom with a look that he couldn't decipher and
      said, "You're going to prison, Riddle! I know you did it! I saw you
      wave your hand!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Like this?" Tom waved his hand, picturing that invisible
      force in his palm. He didn't know what would happen, but he knew
      Amy wouldn't like it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cave shook again, and stones rained down from the ceiling,
      peppering both Bishop and Benson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amy was crying out in pain as pebbles struck her all over.
      Dennis was hurt so much; he could only roll onto his stomach to
      protect himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked up at the source of the stone rain and noticed a
      particularly large stone almost shaken free from the rock face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If it falls, it'll hit her...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so it did, the melon-sized stone landing on Amy's leg,
      crushing it and causing her to go absolutely hysterical. She was
      screaming and crying, drooling and rocking back and forth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom watched for a few moments, rather amused and feeling
      stronger than he ever had before. When she had begun to quiet a
      little Tom spoke up in a high voice with no warmth or kindness to
      it, no longer the voice of a child.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Final offer, you came in here to do whatever you want to tell
      people, and there was an earthquake that hurt you." Tom was
      dictating the story. "I was never here. If you promise this and I
      believe you, I will send help without implicating myself. If it
      happens that I do not believe you… I will never speak of this, and
      both of you will be trapped here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom stared into Amy's eyes, past the tears, past the fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I promise… Tom, please… I don't even… know what happened… just
      send help." She managed to sob out the statement. Tom maintained
      eye contact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It just "feels" like she is telling the truth… She is
      absolutely terrified…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom turned and made his way back to the cavern exit without
      another word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"TOM! YOU WILL SEND HELP! RIGHT!?" Amy was calling after him,
      her words hard to make out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't reply he simply made his way out of the cave and back
      towards the beach as though nothing had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though as he walked back toward the main trail he found that he
      couldn't lie to himself and say nothing had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I just have no idea what it was that happened… Bishop and
      Benson are hurt, bad…</em><em class="calibre7">I am almost certain I made that
      happen…</em><em class="calibre7">They truly brought it on themselves, however,
      whatever it was…</em><em class="calibre7">I never asked to walk in on their
      business; I was minding my own…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was truly smiling. It had been a long time since that had
      happened. He felt strong and confident for casting down his enemies
      with no effort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I wonder if this is how Jameson feels when he grabs you and
      slams you to the ground, using his weight to hold you until you cry
      out…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That made Tom's smile falter a little.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No, I never did anything to get Jameson, or Nickerson, or
      any of their attention. They picked on me because I was
      weak.</em><em class="calibre7">I taught Bishop and Benson a lesson they had
      coming.</em><em class="calibre7">In fact, there are a lot of lessons which need to
      be taught now that I think about it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was still thinking when he hit the main trail, and ran into
      Matthew coming down the hill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy noticed Tom, and then took a second glance and gave Tom
      a strange look. Strange in the fact that Matthew never seemed to
      give any kind of looks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom immediately thought his clothes must be dirty so he looked,
      but they were clean.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's wrong?" Tom asked Matthew</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing, it's nearly time to leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom simply nodded and walked with the boy back to the beach.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
