<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem - The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem Chapter 1: Ch1 – The Cup, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: The Cup</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">AN: the jumps in perspective, time, and space in this
      chapter are jarring for many people – I'll try and give this
      chapter a fifth rewrite when I have the time. The other chapters
      are considerably easier to read than this one – the second and
      third chapters narrow down to one narrative line with extra bits,
      and the fourth chapter is the continuation of that single narrative
      line with no extra bits.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">AN/2: I post chapters on /r/rational and /r/hpmor, so
      check out those subreddits for discussion. I'm also planning to put
      this on AO4 and SpaceBattles! If you'd like to be a beta, please pm
      me!</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">The Universe Is An Optimisation
      Problem</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">By Eigenstation/imasentientantcolony</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"What is your ambition?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">To understand everything important there is to know about
      the universe, apply that knowledge to become omnipotent, and use
      that power to rewrite reality because I have some objections to the
      way it works now."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To understand how something works, figure out how to break
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">—Nassim Nicholas Taleb</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">CHAPTER ONE</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">DO NOT MESS WITH:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">TIME,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THE STRUCTURE OF MAGIC,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">OR</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THE CLIMATE CONTROL SETTINGS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(UNLESS YOU HAVE PERMISSION FROM YOUR SUPERVISOR)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THANK YOU</p>
      <p class="calibre6">— engraved on all stationery in the</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Department of Mysteries</p>
      <p class="calibre6">and completely coincidentally written</p>
      <p class="calibre6">on the wall of a public loo in Leicester</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you want to know why the world is the way it is today, you'd
      need to take a trip to the Department of Mysteries. You'd also need
      a form signed in triplicate by the Minister of Magic, with the
      signatures of the Chief Thaumaturge of London, the Grand Sorcerer
      of the British Isles, the Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, and – of
      course – the Department Director (who is a very busy man, not least
      due to the fact that at any given time, there are three of him
      walking through the Ministry's halls).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You'd have to pass through Level 0 of the Ministry, which has a
      pretty golden fountain and flying letters. After passing the
      security check, you'd descend to Level Minus One, which is
      populated mainly by interns working four-thousand hour weeks and
      people who stare at you suspiciously every now and then, paid
      primarily to contribute to the overall feeling of existential
      paranoia that pervades the Department.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Level Minus Two is the kind of floor where people ask questions
      like: "So tell me, does it eat human flesh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Level Minus Three is the kind of floor where people ask
      questions like: "Can we <em class="calibre8">make</em> it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thing that changed the world forever, is on a raised
      pedestal in Level Minus Twenty-Eight surrounded by a shimmering
      cobweb of blue light. It's a mug - a stained, slightly cracked,
      ceramic mug with a list of easily-pronounceable anti-hangover
      Charms printed on the side, along with its former owner's name
      (misspelt), filled with what looks like glowing vanilla ice
      cream.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As you descend the stairs, Albus Dumbledore, the Chief Warlock
      will tell you that the ordinary background magic concentration in,
      say, Wales – is around 0.0001 thaums per cubic centimetre. He'll
      also tell you that within the body tissue of a wizard, it's five
      thaums per cubic centimetre, and that up until 1931, the highest
      magic concentration ever recorded had been in the central locus of
      the Cup of Dawn when Merlin created the Interdict – about one
      hundred million thaums per cubic centimetre.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, curiosity piqued, you'd naturally ask him: "How
      many thaums per cubic centimetre does the cup have?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To which he would respond: "Around ten to the forty-one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is the unimaginatively-named Cup of Magic. It was created
      when a Junior Unspeakable named Reginald Rookwood sneezed during an
      experimental ritual to turn water into whiskey in 1931, and in
      doing so, knocked out every electrical grid in the Northern
      Hemisphere for four hours, permanently melted an entire Ministry
      corridor, caused an electrical storm to form over a corner store in
      Diagon Alley, and created a new island in the North Sea. Some
      people say it broke magic and doomed wizardkind forever, but over
      the sixty-three years between then and now, the Cup of Magic has
      powered over six hundred and eighty thousand rituals, several of
      which involved creating objects with a larger mass than the Moon
      and had to be conducted entirely in outer space.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rippling consequences of the existence of the Cup of Magic,
      in part, is why tomatoes grow on Venus, why the Soviet Union
      controls Hawai'i, why Hermione blew up a skyscraper when she was
      twelve, why Harry Potter is a mind-clone of Tom Riddle, why Ozland
      Dwimmersmith was born, and why the world will probably end on April
      14, 1996. But before we get ahead of ourselves, it would also
      probably be a good idea to quickly cover the events that occurred
      in the years before 1994, which is when everything <em class="calibre8">really</em>
      begins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there's one more thing Albus Dumbledore will probably tell
      you. He'll tell you about leylines, about how wizards, with
      appropriate permission, can request for a new leyline to draw magic
      from the Cup for Ministry-approved rituals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'll tell you the strands of blue light are leylines, spreading
      out through time and space.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He's lying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They're cracks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">ALBUS DUMBLEDORE – THE WIZENGAMOT – 1983 - ELEVEN YEARS BEFORE
      THE PRESENT DAY</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . <em class="calibre8">achoo</em>, ahem – as I was saying – a Muggleborn by
      the name of Edward Rotford, who received a 'Troll' marking on all
      six of his subjects, and was later expelled due to . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You'd think winning a civil war would strengthen your political
      influence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . extraordinary waste of Ministry resources . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You'd think <em class="calibre8">losing</em> a civil war would weaken it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . universally abysmal, naturally – owing to their
      <em class="calibre8">dubious</em> heritage . . ."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Many did, and they were wrong on both counts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . why, here — allow me to ask the Headmaster himself.
      Pray, if you would, <em class="calibre8">Mister</em> Dumbledore, how many Muggleborn
      students <em class="calibre8">sat</em> their NEWT examinations last year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sixteen. Regardless – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr Dumbledore, <em class="calibre8">another</em> question, if you see fit to
      answer. How many Muggleborn Hogwarts students <em class="calibre8">passed</em> their
      NEWT examinations last year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Had they been properly schooled – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The unembellished answer, Lords and Ladies, is <em class="calibre8">three</em>.
      Three of sixteen. And of those three, only <em class="calibre8">one</em> received
      marks above 'Acceptable'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An excited hubbub immediately followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In truth, Voldemort had not stood against magical Britain. He
      had disrupted the prevailing order in the same way that pelting
      rain disrupts the mirrored surface of a puddle, while ultimately
      turning that puddle into a much bigger puddle. The Death Eaters
      (among their ranks many aristocrats and blood-supremacists) had
      represented nothing more than the radical movement for a more
      extreme status quo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However distorted and skewed, it was the illustration that
      appeared in the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> on June 19, 1968, that most
      accurately encapsulated the sentiments of the British magical
      ruling-class. The illustration looked like this: to the right, was
      a muscled Amelia Bones, wrenching a screaming Abraxas Malfoy by the
      lapels, in the act of throwing him into a freshly-dug grave. To the
      left, was Bartemius Crouch, occasionally winking at the reader as
      he chiselled the word "NOBILITY" onto a gravestone. Looming above
      them all, stood Albus Dumbledore, with impassioned froth and
      spittle geysering from his wrinkled lips, waving about the
      commanding finger of octogenarian authority. "FOR THE GREATER
      GOOD!" read the speech-bubble emerging from his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a little on the nose, even by the standards of the
      <em class="calibre8">Prophet</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed that the Ministry and the hallowed halls of the
      Wizengamot could do nothing, for Dumbledore and his allies occupied
      all the most important Ministry posts, and had the sympathetic ears
      of many seats in both the guilds of the Mysterium and the
      hereditary seats of the Magisterium. He held the Line of Merlin,
      which could be passed on only in death (and it would be difficult
      if not impossible to kill Albus Dumbledore), and to rob him of the
      position of Chief Warlock by vote alone would have been a political
      impossibility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Centuries of tradition, of accumulated power and wealth, were
      threatened with existential destruction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle, in retrospect, had stepped in at exactly the right
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And although his most fervent supporters had been imprisoned in
      Azkaban, the <em class="calibre8">foundation</em> of his rule had remained
      unchallenged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remind the Lords and Ladies convened," enunciated Augusta
      Longbottom, "that this Act was passed in a year in which many
      members of the esteemed Wizengamot were, in fact, Death Eaters
      using Polyjuice. Or simply Death Eaters." She left a long pause,
      during which many people looked like they were about to say
      something, and then slyly added: "Under the Imperius, of course."
      Then: "<em class="calibre8">Although</em>, it appears that those selfsame Lords and
      Ladies continue to defend the policies crafted by none other than
      Volde – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Longbottom, you forget yourself!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the debate raged on, although with every rhetorical parry
      and blow, it became clearer and clearer to Albus Dumbledore, and
      those who sided with him, that this battle had been lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . accidental magic!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . rather rude, a terrible influence on my boy . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The most powerful mage in Britain stood. Silence followed
      instantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was not smiling, nor did his eyes twinkle. Such
      things were reserved for Hogwarts, for the children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To the Wizengamot, I restate these unadorned facts in the hope
      that in these final few minutes of contemplation, you shall find
      yourself erring on the side of sympathy for <em class="calibre8">all</em> children
      born with Merlin's gift, leaving aside the circumstances of their
      parentage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizarding children born to magical parents are permitted to
      practice wanded magic from the age of nine. They are furthermore
      permitted to attend private academies and receive private tuition
      from this age onwards. At the age of eleven, they are permitted to
      attend Hogwarts, and receive five years of formal tuition. This is
      known to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were various nods from his faction, but most of the purple
      robes were indifferent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yet wizarding children born to non-magical, or
      negligibly-magical parents, are barred from knowledge of magic –
      likewise, attendance at Hogwarts – until their fifth year. They
      receive, at <em class="calibre8">most</em>, three years of tuition. First-generation
      wizards, quite simply, receive less in the way of education. Is it
      no small wonder that their academic performances are poorer than
      those with the benefit of magical backgrounds? Do you not conflate
      cause with effect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Foolish old man," someone murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked sharply at him, and the man shrunk under his
      gaze, but it had been said and heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few final words were exchanged, a final vote was called, and
      there were some hands in the air, but not enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not nearly enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Among the Lords and Ladies aligned with Lucius Malfoy's faction
      were many condescending smiles, as the final vote was tallied
      against the proposal of Albus Dumbledore, the Chief Warlock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By the ruling of the twenty-first session of the
      one-hundred-and-ninety-fifth Wizengamot, §11.1a of Article V of the
      Muggleborn Safety Act of 1977, shall <em class="calibre8">not</em> be repealed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...incomplete nature of the ritual. Wanagathan 1973 made the
      claim that 'ach' (falling, inflected, no emphasis, heavily
      aspirated) - the ending symbol commonly used in most
      transformation-type rituals made by intermediate-novices (see Egy
      1927, Aschelter 1936) in lieu of dynamic redundancy - followed by
      'oo' (standard) is a multiplicative combination which could
      continually reinforce ambient magic until dismissed by an
      exhalation symbol. We respond to this claim by reminding Wanagathan
      that actual sneezes are very rarely vocalized as 'achoo' - they are
      instead violent outbursts of air which do not correspond to the
      phonologies of most languages. Instead, we believe the unique
      product of the Rookwood Whiskey Ritual could be explained precisely
      by the presence of this 'out of bound' sneezing symbol, which could
      potentially disrupt the matrix alignment of previous symbols,
      shifting certain rows by unit one in any of twenty-eight possible
      directions, according to our calculations in this paper. Rookwood
      himself suffering memory-loss after the magical explosion, and most
      of the original ritual being irrecoverable, we believe, having
      analysed the fragmentary evidence that exists, there is a
      possibility that the ritual was of a particularly dangerous
      form-substance-form type that involved the transformation of water
      into pure magic, and then back into whiskey, with the
      form-to-substance transformation occurring outside of
      temporal-spatial boundaries. Proceeding from this, the introduction
      of an 'out of bound' symbol may have prevented the
      substance-to-form transformation from fully completing, leaving
      only pure magic in a metastable state (enabled by its sheer
      density). This hypothesis would elegantly explain all observations
      concerning the Cup of Magic as recorded by Kagnarr 1932."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Extract from the Journal of the Cyprian Thaumaturgical Research
      Society (pg. 103, Vol. 22)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">TOM RIDDLE – BORGIN AND BURKES, KNOCKTURN ALLEY, INSIDE AN
      EXPANDED POCKET OF INTERDIMENSIONAL SPACE, LONDON – 1949,
      FORTY-FIVE YEARS BEFORE THE PRESENT-DAY</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle (who was not yet Lord Voldemort) was on his way to
      solving two people's problems at once. The first problem was that
      the majority shareholder of Colossan Trust, Walter Rockefeller,
      wanted a powerful wizard to protect Tibbles – his cat – from harm.
      All harm. He'd described it like this: "Mr Riddle – if Tibbles gets
      thrown into the Sun, I want the Sun to be the one who comes off
      worst."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second problem was that the British government needed
      someone who could deal with the IRA. And by 'deal with', they
      really meant it. With the quotation marks and everything. In
      official governmentspeak, it was: "We wouldn't condone a
      <em class="calibre8">genocide</em>, Riddle, but the British community will
      understand perfectly well if more severe measures are necessary to
      end this war on a permanent basis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you can't see a way to solve both of these problems and make
      money at the same time, you're probably not Tom Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the solution to those two problems created a third problem
      for him: there weren't any rituals which could actually create over
      a million Horcruxes at once, and probably even less that could make
      them for a cat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other hand, Tom knew that he could probably figure one
      out by the end of his shift.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that, Tom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was startled from his reverie by Caractacus Burke, the
      obnoxious owner of the store. Burke was rarely interested in the
      fascinating items that came in and went out of his store, only in
      ensuring that jingly gold coins mostly went in one of those
      directions. He had a thick, greasy moustache which, if wrung out
      over a frying pan, would probably provide enough oil to make French
      toast with. Burke's manner was stooped, thinly curious, intruding,
      and his breath smelt like horseradish and turpentine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom silently vowed that, after all of it was over, he would kill
      Burke very quickly and efficiently, not because he deserved any
      reprise from a painful death, but because he wasn't worth more than
      a half-second of Tom's time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a diagram of a sacrificial runic circle designed to kill
      everyone inside of it, turn their corpses into Horcruxes, and shoot
      the corpses into space at a hundred kilometres a second," was what
      he badly wanted to say. Instead, he said: "It's a diagram of a
      runic circle designed to stabilise volatile potions, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting, very interesting," Burke breathed, his eyes
      gleaming, "I used to dabble in that kind of thing. How does it
      work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom fired off a long stream of made-up runic-ritual sounding
      words and inwardly sighed every time Burke gave a shrewd nod, as if
      he actually understood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well now, I think that might just work," he said after Tom had
      finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not quite sure it will, sir," Tom replied, "so I'm visiting
      a runician in Ulster who might be able to help me work out the
      details. Although there is another purpose to my visit - I believe
      he also has a fragment of the original Cup of Dawn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed, sir. I'm thinking I'll pay a little more than necessary
      to get his cooperation on my runic circle designs and maybe I'll -
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, I don't think that will be strictly necessary, Tom. That's
      not how you negotiate these things. A fragment of the
      <em class="calibre8">original</em> Cup of Dawn, you say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," Tom gritted out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Caractacus Burke stroked his chin. "Well, what say you I come
      with? When's it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it'll be a month or two at the very least. He's a very busy
      man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll make the preparations. Let me know once you have an exact
      date, Tom. Very good work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle always did everything perfectly, so nobody saw him
      carve deep, jutting lines into the grounds around every Republican
      stronghold in Ireland - and the people who did, didn't remember.
      The late forties were the golden age of new rituals, and the Cup of
      Magic was not yet under lock and key on Level Minus Twenty-Eight of
      the Ministry basement, so nobody was especially suspicious when an
      enterprising young man, fresh out of Hogwarts, filled in the form
      requesting for a few new leylines so he could draw magic from the
      Cup. Even when those leylines were mysteriously extended by a few
      thousand kilometers, the only thing people thought was mysterious
      about <em class="calibre8">him</em> was his relationship status.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On December 10, 1949, when there was a deafening supersonic bang
      that was heard from Nova Scotia to beyond the Ural Mountains, when
      three point eight million people were suddenly missing, and when a
      cat and a certain Tom Riddle were suddenly <em class="calibre8">very</em> immortal
      indeed, nobody suspected the boy at the counter of Borgin and
      Burkes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By six o'clock, after stopping by Walter Rockefeller's mansion
      in California, he was about two metric tonnes of gold
      wealthier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By eight o'clock, after meeting a shady man in a Scottish
      corner-street, he had about eighty million pounds worth of
      government bonds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By nine o'clock, he was bored again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By ten o'clock, after rearranging his name for half an hour, and
      staring at that day's edition of the <em class="calibre8">Prophet</em>, he'd thought
      of something interesting to fill up time between then and
      eternity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Wand</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">MINISTER PUGEONN WARNS AGAINST INFLUENCE OF 'REACTIONARY
      FANATICS'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">March 9, 1968</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'LORD VOLDEMORT' WANTED BY MINISTRY FOR MURDER OF JOYCE
      STEWART</p>
      <p class="calibre6">April 28, 1969</p>
      <p class="calibre6">DEATH EATERS DECLARE WAR ON BRITAIN</p>
      <p class="calibre6">January 3, 1970</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dawning Moment Herald</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">PRES. LABAR RE-ELECTED TO SERVE FIFTH TERM</p>
      <p class="calibre6">November 4, 1992</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His Ascendancy President Labar, leader of the free world, of the
      Dawning Moment, of the White Race, and of Colossan Tobacco (North
      America), a genius unparalleled in human history, has been
      re-elected, as determined by the Almighty, to serve His third term
      as President of the United States of America. His Ascendancy won
      with a spectacular 84% of the popular vote, with the Dawning Moment
      Party winning 56 out of 60 of voting states.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Leaflet given out at the 1991 London Protest:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">THREE TRUSTS CONTROL YOUR WORLD</p>
      <p class="calibre6">— <em class="calibre8">T</em><em class="calibre8">HE</em> <em class="calibre8">C</em><em class="calibre8">OLOSSAN</em>
      <em class="calibre8">T</em><em class="calibre8">RUST</em> —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">— <em class="calibre8">N</em><em class="calibre8">EGALOTH</em> <em class="calibre8">I</em><em class="calibre8">NC.</em> —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">— <em class="calibre8">T</em><em class="calibre8">HAUCORP</em> <em class="calibre8">I</em><em class="calibre8">NTERNATIONAL</em>
      —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">ARE ALL OWNED BY <em class="calibre8">STANDARD HOLDINGS</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">&amp; COMMANDED BY THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF NINE.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THEY CONTROL WHAT YOU BUY.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THEY CONTROL WHAT YOU SEE.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THEY CONTROL WHAT YOU THINK.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THEY CONTROL YOUR LIFE.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WITHOUT ECONOMIC DEMOCRACY,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THERE IS ONLY DICTATORSHIP.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THE FREEDOM OF THE RULING-CLASS,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">IS THE SLAVERY OF THE RULED.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THEY BELIEVE YOU ARE COMPLACENT.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">ARE THEY WRONG?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"THOSE WHO DO NOT MOVE,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">DO NOT NOTICE THEIR CHAINS."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">— ROSA LUXEMBURG</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">LARGEST PRIVATE ENTITIES BY MARKET CAPITALIZATION (MARCH
      1992)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">1.</em> <em class="calibre8">Colossan Trust</em> <em class="calibre8">— $6.6 trillion —
      finance, real estate, energy, manufacturing, defense, agriculture,
      construction, tobacco — 67% owned by Standard Holdings</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">2.</em> <em class="calibre8">Negaloth Inc.</em> <em class="calibre8">— $3.8 trillion — media,
      telecommunications, cable &amp; satellite, private defense,
      surveillance, government relations, advertising, entertainment,
      hospitality, transport, electronic media, debt collection — 85%
      owned by Standard Holdings</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">3.</em> <em class="calibre8">ThauCorp International</em> <em class="calibre8">— $2.1 trillion
      — aerospace, electronics, artificial intelligence, private
      education, research and development, pharmaceutical — 24% owned by
      Standard Holdings, 76% owned by Allan Unnman</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre8">The Eagle</em> (March 19, 1992)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We commemorate this monument to Anita Gadberry, a
      primary-school student among the three hundred whose lives were
      violently foreshortened in this very London square, murdered by the
      Negaloth Private Defense Corps in the May Protest of 1991.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">May she be forever remembered.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—Gadberry Monument</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">HERMIONE GRANGER – DR DAVID WILLIGAN'S THERAPEUTIC PSYCHIATRY
      CENTRE, BALHAM, SOUTH LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM – MAY 4, 1992 - TWO
      YEARS BEFORE THE PRESENT-DAY</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">One thousand soldiers face an advancing mob,
      resolute.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A bottle spirals, turns three times, and shatters.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">In a second, gunfire fills the air.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Blood spills out in litres, and someone screams a
      word.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Blood spills out in litres, and someone screams a
      word.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Blood spills out in litres, and someone screams a
      word.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl snapped back to attention in an instant. "Yes,
      sir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you don't mind, Hermione, I'd like to know what's on your
      mind." He paused to gauge her reaction, but her face remained
      impassive, as always. "I know you find these sessions annoying, but
      your parents are worried about you. I'd like to be able to assuage
      their concerns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't all parents worry about their children?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He ignored her and continued. "Your school counsellor is also
      worried." Usually he would try and empathise with his patients –
      making light conversation. Unfortunately, Hermione Granger
      invariably managed to divert the conversation far away from talk of
      her wellbeing or mental health, until the one-hour session expired
      and he went home, immensely frustrated. He hadn't even been aware
      of it the first few times. This time, Doctor Willigan noticed, she
      had offered him only a half-hearted diversion. There was something
      she wanted to say, and he'd be damned if he knew what it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's somewhat disturbed at how <em class="calibre8">well</em> you've been . . .
      coping. Managing the trauma of losing someone close to you. She
      says you seem to be barely affected. She thinks you're channeling
      your . . . anguish into academic performance, however silly that
      may sound."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She lightly tapped her finger on her cheek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Plock.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Plock.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Plock.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that necessarily a bad thing, Mister Willigan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He momentarily choked. " . . . what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because most of the adults I know are pretty transparently
      driven by feelings of sexual inadequacy, fears of never attaining
      eminence or distinction, desire for status in highly competitive
      hierarchical environments, anxiety from failure to sufficiently
      conform to social norms . . . but I could name hundreds of
      scientists, engineers, and authors who were driven to greatness by
      traumatic deaths – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She continued as if he hadn't spoken. " – Harold Milton's mother
      passed away in 1974 when he was an undergrad at Ohio State
      University, after which he successfully developed the prototype
      whale-milk-hydrocarbon conversion method, and solved the energy
      crisis . . . in <em class="calibre8">Memoirs</em>, Eula Kovach cited her anguish
      over the death of her fiancée as a large part of her motivation to
      write the fifty-million-word long <em class="calibre8">Godflesh</em> series —
      Gilderoy Locker attributed his meteoric rise from Negaloth public
      relations consultant to a member of the Executive Council of Nine
      to rejection from his hometown. I could go on, but I think I've
      made my point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That was prepared. And</em> I <em class="calibre8">was the one leading the
      conversation</em>. "Your point?" The most frustrating thing about
      having Hermione Granger as his patient was that she clammed up. And
      when he prised her mind open, he would inevitably find another
      clam. An infinite set of delicately-constructed selves, with not a
      single slip or loss of composure. Levels and levels and layers and
      layers of paper-wrapping and colourful ribbons and strange
      loops.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But there was a fiery determination that shone through her eyes,
      and that was something she could never hide.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I <em class="calibre8">am</em> channeling my anguish. Isn't that better
      than burying it? I read the books you recommended to me last time."
      All of them? Should he have been surprised? "I know it's
      <em class="calibre8">bad</em> to hide your emotions, they just end up . . . bubbling
      up somewhere else when you least expect it. I'm turning thirteen
      next month, Doctor. It's been almost a whole year since Anita died.
      At least I'm steering it somewhere <em class="calibre8">constructive</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Willigan was curious. "Somewhere constructive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to med school. I'm going to be a <em class="calibre8">dentist</em>.
      Just like my parents. And nothing is going to stop me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was lying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was building a bomb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">THE ONE WITH THE POWER TO VANQUISH THE DARK LORD
      APPROACHES,</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">BORN TO THOSE WHO HAVE THRICE DEFIED
      HIM,</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">BORN AS THE SEVENTH MONTH DIES,</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">AND THE DARK LORD WILL MARK HIM AS HIS
      EQUAL,</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">BUT HE WILL HAVE POWER THE DARK LORD KNOWS
      NOT,</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">AND EITHER MUST DESTROY ALL BUT A REMNANT OF THE
      OTHER,</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">FOR THOSE TWO DIFFERENT SPIRITS CANNOT EXIST IN THE
      SAME WORLD.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre8">Sybill Trelawney, 1980</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">HE IS HERE. THE ONE WHO WILL TEAR APART THE VERY
      STARS IN HEAVEN.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">HE IS HERE. HE IS THE END OF THE
      WORLD.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre8">Sybill Trelawney, 1991</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">THE TOWER AND THE GODDESS SEND CHARIOTS OF FIRE INTO
      THE SKY, AND END THE EARTH IN THEIR WAKE.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre8">Telesphorus Eastrodor, 1865</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">SHE, THE FIRSTE DOGHTER OF THE SEOFENTHE SONE, AND
      THE ONSE AND FU</em>ȝ<em class="calibre8">ERE KING MARCDE BY LYTENNING, SHAL CROSSEN
      THE BRITTISH SOU</em>ȝ<em class="calibre8">TH SE, AND BEREN A BEBLEEDYN
      CROWYNE.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre8">Taciturna Trelawney, 1317</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">GOLD BECOMES LEAD, AS LEAD BECOMES
      GOLD.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre8">Golofor Yammabagus, 1799</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">ALL ENDINGS SHALL BE ENDED BY THE
      CRUX.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">—<em class="calibre8">Augerna Hrosdóttir, 188 (first recorded prophecy in
      Britain)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">FEBRUARY 26, 1993 - THE BOY-WHO-LIVED</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry James Potter Evans-Verres fixed things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He fixed faulty taps, fractured windscreens, ripped books, and
      wrecked umbrellas. Nothing electronic, nothing capable of recording
      anything, and with one caveat: you weren't allowed to watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No seams . . . nothing. Where on Earth did you learn your
      craft, Harry? Ten pounds, wasn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's right, Mrs Figg," Harry replied politely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in, come in. Snowy, please make some room for our guest,
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A malicious-looking cat looked up at him briefly from a chintz
      armchair, and stayed resolutely put.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't mind him, Harry, it's his – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Favourite chair, yes, I remember."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She beamed at him, and tottered out of the room, presumably to
      search for her wallet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Harry said, addressing Snowy, "if you get out of
      that chair, I'll leave mince for you out to the side of the
      driveway again. Fair?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cat flicked its ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two fifty grams."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cat flicked its ears again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . five hundred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cat did a cat-yawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Six hundred with a few shavings of ham, final offer . . . ah,
      that did it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was perfectly fine standing around for a couple of minutes
      while Mrs Figg fetched her wallet – but then again, this was
      another opportunity to negotiate with a <em class="calibre8">breed of sentient
      cats.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry was twelve, the world had changed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was in the kitchen while his parents were out, decided all of
      a sudden that he wanted to make chocolate biscuits, and in the
      process, accidentally dropped his parents' wedding bowl, shattering
      it into hundreds of porcelain shards. He closed his eyes, quickly
      counted to ten in his head, snapped his fingers, and it suddenly
      wasn't shattered. It lay there on the floor, quite whole and
      untampered with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He failed to replicate this result with another bowl, and
      attributed it to lack of sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then three days later, he quickly counted to ten, snapped his
      fingers, and watched as glass fragments dragged themselves across
      the carpet and sealed themselves together into a wine glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then two days after <em class="calibre8">that</em>, he noticed a bar called the
      Leaky Cauldron jutting out along Charing Cross Road.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gradually, Harry came to the realization that his map, carefully
      drawn with reference to Feynman and Einstein, Newton and Jopasfeld,
      no longer matched the territory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Onetwothreefourfivesixseveneightnineten –</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Snap.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there was magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oxford, United Kingdom, Prime Material Plane</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She came not at the thirteenth hour, but at 2am on a motorbike.
      She came with the low gleams of twenty street-lamps on her obsidian
      visor, with her worn leather jacket flailing in the windy tempest,
      with clinically-utilitarian grey platform boots planted on the
      welcome mat, and a slightly cracked voice. She came with a faded
      <em class="calibre8">We Are Cosmic Nomads Tour of 1989</em> band shirt and a bold,
      confident gait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Knock knock</em>, went the door to Harry's workshop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up from his book, carefully noted down the page,
      closed the book, placed the book into the shelf, and approached the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Knock knock knock</em>, went the door once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked through the peephole and saw the black mirror of a
      biking helmet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's two in the morning," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your lights are on," came the crisp reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Estuary accent.</em> "You saw the ad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That I did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a sentimental biker with a wocked-up part from an
      obsolete make and no one else so far's been able to fix it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A long pause from the other end. "Well, yeah," she sounded
      amused. "You're a smart boy." (Harry suppressed the brief wave of
      irritation that followed this remark.) "Mhm, could I come in now?
      It's a little cold out here, and I have a concert to get to, so . .
      . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He unlocked the door, and she strode inside, accompanied by a
      strong gust. "What band?" he asked conversationally, closing the
      door after her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Septic Glow." The stranger's gaze, still under the visor,
      wandered around his workshop, and remained at a long row of books
      before jerking away to face him. "Nice set-up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, so . . . it wasn't in the ad, but the word is . . .
      well, okay – can you <em class="calibre8">really</em> fix anything in under ten
      minutes, or was that just a gimmick?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly shook his head, grinning. "Not a gimmick. Usually
      it's under five, but I say ten just to be safe. What's it you need
      fixed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice from under the dome was laced with skepticism. "It's a
      customized ThauMobile 10386 F-class pneumatic-grapple modulator,
      and if you <em class="calibre8">can</em> fix it in under five minutes . . . call the
      Satanic Society and give them your address because I already tried
      God and he didn't do shit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt they'd be interested in an ordinary industrial
      process."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She held out a ziplock bag, containing granules of metal, bits
      of plastic, crushed pipes, and two neatly bifurcated halves of an
      intricate pre-1979 modulator. "Does your ordinary industrial
      process work with this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took the bag, and made a show of examining it. "Is this
      everything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No missing stuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope, all there." She wrung her hands. "The, ah, bike's been my
      dad's for twenty years. I had to borrow my boyfriend's cruiser to
      get here, just doesn't feel the same, you know? Nothing short of
      witchcraft will fix this crap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Heh, witchcraft.</em> He looked back up at her. "Right,
      okay. I can repair this in a couple of minutes, maybe four tops.
      I'll need you to wait outside, for a couple of minutes while I do
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," the stranger said slowly. "How come?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eh, it's a tradition. Or an old charter. Or something. Besides,
      I wouldn't want you to see all the sacrificial lambs I'm
      slaughtering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Septic did that at their last gig," she murmured idly. "What's
      this deal, then?" She pointed at a monitor that continually spat
      out a long stream of numbers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Personal hobby. Don't you have a concert to get to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's twenty minutes away," and then in a quieter voice, "twenty
      two seven zero one five . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman seemed to struggle with herself before continuing to
      speak. "This is emulating a Trust relay-terminal. That's illegal.
      And impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I can neither confirm nor deny – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She batted her hand dismissively. "I'm not going to dob you in."
      She stopped. "Oh, <em class="calibre8">I</em> see now. You . . . that's clever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Bluff?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, I'll tell you what I know. They have these in
      factories to rapidly send production stats to the Colossan
      Executive Monitor through the Mundial network. <em class="calibre8">But</em>," she
      said, walking still closer to the monitor, "you've meshed into the
      Mundial by spoofing a non-allocated factory space. And you're
      sending botched stats. But . . . why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This isn't just random data, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another ten second pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she started humming the national anthem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry froze. "What – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She laughed, and it wasn't a cold laugh or a condescending
      laugh, or even a mean laugh – it was a genuine, relaxed laugh.
      "It's in the barcodes. Don't worry, it's not obvious. That's what I
      first noticed, you see? The last eight digits. 00286531, 01583921,
      500000, 00291111, etcetera etcetera. Audio encoding, isn't it? Then
      based on the first five notes, it was either the national anthem or
      the third bar of <em class="calibre8">Der Himmel</em> in C, and – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're observant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stranger reeled back slightly. "I did a multiplex networking
      degree in uni. And my dad is middle-management at a steel refinery,
      so I know about this stuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hmm.</em> "Will you tell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said, I'm not going to dob you in. Is there, ah, another
      spoofed terminal receiving the data?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gestured at the back of the room. "Under the big white
      sheet. I trust you realize the implications?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, we won't have to wait hours to get mail on the Echo, so
      practically instantaneous text communications, ah, maybe instant
      image – hey, what's the bitrate like?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grimaced. "Two kilobits a second, if I max it out and do
      double-encoding with the temperature readings. With anything else,
      they always catch on and I have to – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – start it all over again, right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a long, awkward silence, probably made more awkward by
      the impassive black visor, from which his mammalian hindbrain tried
      desperately to recover some semblance of social cues and ended up
      with total ambiguity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He coughed. "Your modulator, by the way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh-huh?" She still seemed to be in deep thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held it up to eye-level. "It <em class="calibre8">would</em> usually be
      fifty pounds for something mechanical, but I'll make it thirty for
      breaking up my boredom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I – wait, what? Give me that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Obligingly, he chucked the bag to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She opened it up and held the completely-undamaged ThauMobile
      10386 F-class pneumatic-grapple modulator. "No – you, I . . . this
      . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I, you, that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's even got . . . " she blew through a nozzle jutting out of
      the top, and a clear note rang out. "Well fuck me," she counted out
      three notes, and handed them to Harry, "I would've bet anything
      against this getting . . . well, I <em class="calibre8">would have</em> accused you
      of having a duplicate and switching them around – but I, ah, added
      on a few things, and they're still there, so, well, okay." She
      shook her head. "I'm not even going to try. I'll try and figure out
      how you gamed the verification protocol for connecting to the
      Mundial, but this – I, wow. You'll go places. What are you
      planning? You know, career-wise. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I'm not sure. But I've got a checklist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's on it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took a deep breath. "It's a list I made when I was eleven:
      meeting all the interesting people in the world, reading all the
      good books and then writing something even better, celebrating my
      first grandchild's tenth birthday party on the Moon, celebrating my
      first great-great-great grandchild's hundredth birthday party
      around the Rings of Saturn, learning the deepest and final rules of
      Nature, understanding the nature of consciousness, finding out why
      anything exists in the first place, visiting other stars,
      discovering aliens, creating aliens, rendezvousing with everyone
      for a party on the other side of the Milky Way once we've explored
      the whole thing, and meeting up with everyone else who was born on
      Old Earth to watch the Sun finally go out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? That's ambitious." The stranger looked at her watch.
      "I'm going to be a dentist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared back at her with total incomprehension.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pocketed the ziplock bag, walked to the door, and unlocked
      it. "Anyway, thanks for the repair. And, ah, an interesting
      conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before you go – I forgot to ask, what's your name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">EXPLOSIONS DEVASTATE NEGALOTH TOWERS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">May 7, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A wave of devastating attacks struck several Negaloth-owned
      buildings today in central London. The Negaloth Financial Services
      Complex was destroyed "in a manner resembling ... controlled
      demolition", while the Negaloth Telephone Tower caught fire, with
      the building exploding level by level after most personnel had been
      evacuated. Several banks, malls, and internal coordination centres
      were also severely damaged, rendering them inoperable for "at least
      two years". About 382 people are confirmed to have perished in the
      attacks, although analysts say that had the attacks been planned
      even slightly differently, or carried out tomorrow rather than
      Labour Day – the death toll would have been in the high thousands –
      suggesting an intent to financially cripple Negaloth rather than
      petty terrorism. Experts say that the attacks were likely carried
      out by a hostile foreign entity with enormous access to resources,
      involved up to one thousand people, and were likely planned over
      the course of twenty to thirty years. They have suggested that the
      attacks may have been carried out by the IRA, the Stasi, or Welsh
      separatists – or potentially a combination of these
      organizations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"God, it was like a balloon - kept inflating till the skin was
      all stretched and white and taut and then - pop - it exploded with
      guts and blood and bullets, just pouring out onto the street."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">STONEFIELDS, AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND <em class="calibre8">–</em> OCTOBER 18, 1981 -
      FOURTEEN YEARS BEFORE THE PRESENT DAY</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you remember now, Mr Cunningham?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A baby carriage was by the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">do</em> remember now," spoke Humphrey, "how very odd –
      must be my medication, I don't get lapses like this very often.
      Rosie!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A harried-looking blonde woman in her dressing gown flounced
      down the stairs and glared at the two oddly-dressed people by the
      door. "Wossit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's our son, dear, these officers found him – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His wife sniffed. "What on Earth are you on about? We don't have
      a – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Somnium</em>," said the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Levicorpus</em>," said the woman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And in a fraction of a second, his wife was hoisted into the air
      by her ankles, seemingly fast asleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He knew he should have been boiling with rage. Whatever new
      crowd-control device this was, they were both paying alumni of the
      Silver Horde and shouldn't be treated like that – but as soon as it
      coalesced, the anger dissipated, drained out, like water from a
      punctured bucket, and Humphrey Cunningham stood on the marble tiles
      of the waiting room with a strange, empty sense of calm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then his brain caught up to him, and he realized his wife
      was floating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wha – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With another muttered word from the two officers, his jaw was
      suddenly clamped shut. His arms, however much he struggled, were
      completely paralysed, were locked at his sides. His legs similarly
      refused to move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He watched, as the woman walked, in slow, measured footsteps,
      over to his wife, whose upside-down frame hovered in the chill air.
      She brought out a stick, and tapped it on Rosie's forehead. Her
      eyes rolled open with a greasy sound – deadened, dull, and fast
      asleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Demons.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Humphrey was a singularly unsuperstitious man, but now didn't
      seem to be the time for rational thought either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman stared into her eyes for several long minutes. "Should
      be fine," she said finally. Then she twitched the stick, and this
      time, at the end of the stick, there was a pale shimmer, which
      slowly draped itself over his wife like a ghostly jellyfish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stood in that position, seeming to do nothing at all,
      eyelids shut, for half an hour, before the man spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Astrava, we should leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman's head jerked upward. "We're outside of the Ministry
      wards, darling. And I doubt any Death Eaters will be here. We can
      afford to add a few more memories for the sake of our son." The man
      nodded, seeming to acquiesce, and then a few minutes later, with a
      look of immense satisfaction, the woman unruffled her cloak, and
      stood up to leave. She directed her stick at him. "<em class="calibre8">Finite
      Incantatem.</em>" Humphrey felt his body relax and untense, and
      twiddled his fingers experimentally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man approached him with an unreadable expression. "Look
      after little Oz, won't you? <em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(<em class="calibre8">fleeting disorientation</em>)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . and you'd better keep an eye on him next time, he's a
      very frisky young lad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," his wife replied smoothly. "Goodnight,
      officers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Night," he croaked after them, although he wasn't sure why his
      voice felt so strained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">AUGUST 26, 1995 - TABLE 19, DENNY'S FAMILY RESTAURANT, AUCKLAND,
      NEW ZEALAND</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a different era, Ozland Cunningham would be surrounded by
      angry Christians with burning torches. Instead, by 1995, he was the
      <em class="calibre8">de facto</em> leader of a small country and a doomsday New Age
      religion, filled with non-angry Christians who burnt things that
      made them less angry. Jesus could turn water into wine - Oz could
      turn water into very soupy grapefruit juice. While President Labar
      could purportedly raise the dead, Oz could raise a (light) pen
      about eight centimetres off a table. His miracles were small, but
      they were real, and they were all that the Celestial Unorthodox
      Church needed to draw in new followers, declare a new Messiah, and
      gun down everyone who disagreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Life was good. Everything was going according to schedule.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Until suddenly, it stopped going according to schedule.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every morning the acting government (the Auckland Authority of
      the Celestial Unorthodox Church) would assemble around a greasy
      diner table and have pot noodles. At the table that day was Evelyn
      Matchwell, Domovan Kim, and Ozland Cunningham. Missing at the table
      were Kevin O'Hammon, and Rushabh - their formal leader, also a
      reclusive drug lord and an insane megalomaniac who brought peace to
      Auckland by threatening to detonate a nuclear bomb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evelyn was nineteen, tall and blonde, with all the grace and
      poise of a living Greek statue and dazzling white teeth. She had a
      knock-off British accent, and there was a refined sharpness to her
      - almost as if every flippant hand-gesture was a delicate medical
      operation, Ozland noticed, but it clashed with the pink
      heart-shaped sunglasses and the glass bottle of Coca Cola she was
      sipping from. She was the face of television and the voice of the
      radio - the daughter of St Matchwell, who founded the Celestial
      Unorthodox Church in 1973 - utterly, instantly recognisable. She
      didn't just have a cult-following - she had a cult. Ozland had even
      found her face printed on acid tabs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Domovan was eighteen, with black hair slicked back to the point
      where his barber might as well have been a jet exhaust. He was the
      third son of the CEO of the Pan-Asia Four Star Hotel chain, which,
      naturally, had its own paramilitary and transnational crime
      syndicate - both of which were necessary to provide a decent hotel
      service in the lawless morass of unstable regimes barely propped by
      the United Kingdom. He inhaled through an e-cigarette like an alien
      who could only survive in an atmosphere of vanilla-flavoured vapor,
      and clouds followed in his wake like contrails from an
      airplane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland was younger than all of them at fifteen, and slightly
      shorter too - but until you'd seen them all together, you'd insist
      he was the tallest of them all. There wasn't anything particularly
      spectacular about him - he wasn't fat or thin, his face was bland
      and forgettable, but not too forgettable, his hair was the colour
      of lint from an old brown sweater, and his eyes were an
      indeterminate greyish-blue. Nevertheless, he was more recognisable
      even then Evelyn, who had long since attained cultural
      immortality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rushabh is dead, Kevin is sulking about it, a high-ranking
      priest in the 77 Church defected to us at four this morning - says
      he was abducted by Celestians - he wants to see you . . . and an
      owl tried to deliver a letter to you last night," Evelyn
      started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland froze. "Rushabh, the owl, then the Churcher, please," he
      said, controlling his voice carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evelyn stopped drinking, wiped her mouth with a dotted pink
      handkerchief, and set down the glass. "He locked his room, and
      overdosed on just about everything he could find. Did you know you
      can overdose on pomegranate juice? The Chief of Police thinks he
      got impatient, tried hanging himself, and only managed to damage
      his throat and suffocate himself a little. Then he picked up a gun
      and shot himself. He missed the first time and the bullet only
      carved out a line on the top of his skull, so he filled up a
      bathtub and dropped a toaster in, but the toaster wasn't plugged
      into a socket so the Chief isn't sure why he did that. Then he got
      out of the tub, slipped on a puddle, hit his head against the side
      of the tub, and died pretty soon after that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, what are you thinking, Ev?" he said, before realizing
      he should be more specific.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking 'poisoned with plutonium in his Magnum ice cream
      by fanatics affiliated with the 77 Church', but that's a little
      dull."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magnum?" Ozland asked, still distracted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't have Tip Top complaining again," Ev said lightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He drummed his fingers on the table. "People call us the ice
      cream mafia for a reason, Ev – people notice this kind of shit
      after a while. That's three supposedly Magnum-related deaths in,
      what, three months? Hasn't Magnum already suffered enough? Why
      don't we just shell their factories instead of subjecting them to
      slow, humiliating bad publicity through falsified police
      reports?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," she giggled, "it's so silly how people believe
      whatever we tell them. Alright, you have a point there. I'll say it
      was a ThauNestlé cappuccino or something. And then tonight shell
      their factories just for a change. Anyway, as I was saying – nobody
      really visits Rushabh except for me, you, Dom, and Kev - we can
      keep this from the newspapers for a week at the most, so I'll
      handle the media until we can fudge the records properly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also," Dom burst, clearly having wanting to have gotten in a
      word for some time now, "he left a note."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go on," said Ozland.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His last will and testament, naming you as the heir to all of
      his worldly possessions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dom straightened up the miscreant papers from his cream-white
      dossier. "He left a vault with three expired ice-skating vouchers,
      his cat, a baggie of five-fifty tabs, and a signed affidavit from
      about four months ago stating that he firmly believes you didn't
      nick his car in '93, and that should evidence come to the attention
      of the police making you a suspect of the car-nicking, that all
      charges were to be dropped. Also the cat wasn't in the vault, by
      the way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland exhaled, leaning back into the plush, slightly sticky
      mint-green seat. "Why do you reckon he killed himself, Ev?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shrugged. The words: he was insane, although unspoken, hung
      heavily in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, tell me about the owl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dom cleared his throat, preempting Evelyn. "An owl swooped in on
      your apartment while you were sleeping at around four this morning.
      My men shot it down. It had a letter with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What kind of owl?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A fat brown one. Also not a bulletproof one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He passed over the blood-splattered parchment. Ozland took it,
      unfurled it, and began to read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why'd you even have to add that, Dom? It's not funny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's objectively funny," Dom fired back defensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both of you – shut up, I'm trying to read this shit," Ozland
      snapped.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Headmaster: Albus Dumbledore</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sorc., Chf. Warlock,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Supreme Mugwump, International Confed. of Wizards,)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dear Mr Dwimmersmith,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted at
      Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Please find enclosed a
      list of all necessary books and equipment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Term begins on 1 September. We await your owl by no later than
      31 July.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yours sincerely,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva McGonagall</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Deputy Headmistress</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY</p>
      <p class="calibre6">UNIFORM</p>
      <p class="calibre6">First-year students will require.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1. Three sets of plain work robes (black)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2. One plain pointed hat (black) for day wear</p>
      <p class="calibre6">3. One pair of protective gloves (dragonhide or similar)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">4. One winter cloak (black, with silver fastenings)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Please note that all pupil's clothes should carry name tags.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">COURSE BOOKS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All students should have a copy of each of the following:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Miranda Goshawk</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A History of Magic</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Bathilda Bagshot</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Magical Theory</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Adalbert Waffling</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A Beginner's Guide to Transfiguration</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Emeric Switch</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Phyllida Spore</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Magical Drafts and Potions</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Arsenius Jigger</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Newt Scamander</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Quentin Trimble</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Basic Ritual Theory</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">by Invock Pentagrove</p>
      <p class="calibre6">OTHER EQUIPMENT</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 wand (maximum 12)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 cauldron (pewter, standard size 2)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 set glass or crystal phials</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 telescope</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 set brass scales</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1 set of ritual chalk</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Students may also bring, if they desire, an owl OR a cat OR a
      toad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">PARENTS ARE REMINDED THAT FIRST YEARS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">ARE NOT ALLOWED THEIR OWN BROOMSTICK</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yours sincerely,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucinda Thomsonicle-Pocus</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chief Attendant of Witchcraft Provisions</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he read it again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, I don't get it," he finally admitted. "Let's put this
      down for the moment and talk about the Churcher – Lord, you two –
      Dom, you're the general of a fucking army – Ev, you're supposed to
      be the Head of Propaganda for the fastest fucking growing religion
      in Australasia – so stop glaring at one another like fucking
      children."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evelyn sarcastically poked her tongue out at Dom, but the
      tension was already defused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oz sighed and rung a bell. In under three seconds, a waiter was
      standing attentively at their table. He'd been hiding behind a
      potted plant, not entirely successfully. Oz could see the moment
      where he massaged his strung-out, panicked face into a
      pre-programmed smile. "How much will another three bowls of noodles
      be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's free today," the waiter said immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They always say that," Ozland muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw them, I saw them with my own damn eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other side of a one-way mirror, the Chief of Police
      stood, along with Ozland Dwimmersmith and Donovan Yu.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The A.A.C.U.C Central Police Station building was a sprawling
      labyrinth of mottled paint, electronically-locked doors, uniformed
      men looking at you suspiciously, threadbare chairs, and fluorescent
      lights housed inside a brutalist facade that seemed to proudly
      declare to the world: <em class="calibre8">we're unaccountable and there's not a
      thing you can do about it, honey.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And, unsurprisingly, deep within its intestines, a priest was
      recounting an alien abduction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ask him what he saw," said Ozland, to the Chief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ask him what he saw," said the Chief into a microspeak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you see?" asked the interrogator.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man inside the room inside the A.A.C.U.C Central Police
      Station was tall and gaunt, with a blue vein popping out the side
      of his face, and wrinkles around his blue eyes like twisted plastic
      wrap. His hair was blonde but thinning. He was wearing distinctive
      white clerical clothing and the number 77 was emblazoned on both of
      the cuffs, along with a blue swastika. His name was Walter Frond,
      and up until recently, he was a high-ranking clergyman in the 77
      Church, living in a beautiful beachside home along Long Island Road
      in the Mongol Territory to the south-east of Auckland. Now, he was
      quaking and shivering and every eight seconds his left nostril
      twitched nervously. Not five hours ago, he suddenly took a bus to
      the Auckland Central Police Station at three in the morning, and
      quietly defected to the Celestial Unorthodox Church.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Walter Frond paused, as if tasting the words in his mouth before
      saying them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw a huge fucking metal ship."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">BILL WEASLEY - JOUGLARIE, MOUNT JOUGLARIE, CENTRAL LOWLANDS,
      SCOTLAND - FEBRUARY 8, 1992</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bill Weasley was looking over a set of ornate, teardrop-shaped
      stones, when the ground beneath him rattled and Dumbledore suddenly
      stumbled into his field of vision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hello there, Bill! These mountainquakes are something,
      aren't they?" Dumbledore said very offhandedly. "A little unusual,
      don't you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's your angle?" Bill replied rather tersely, then cursed
      under his breath, "I'm sorry about my tone, Headmaster, I lost my
      rune finger . . . " he instinctively searched for a jargon-less way
      to explain it, but quickly remembered that he was talking to Albus
      Dumbledore, the legendary war-hero who transplanted the entirety of
      Diagon Alley into a parallel universe during the Wizarding War, who
      probably knew twice what Bill did about his own damn job and then
      some, "in a 3rd degree interface-splinch when the gravitational
      alignment of the mountain fluxed the SA-barrier - probably because
      of the mountainquakes actually," he continued fluidly. Bill held up
      a blood-soaked bandage for emphasis. "I'm still a little
      ticked-off, sorry for being impolite just then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore simply looked amused that Bill had gone to the
      trouble of apologising, he hadn't seemed too offended. The old
      wizard hummed a little, examining the teardrop stones, and then, as
      if remembering something, jolted a little. "Bill, would you be
      willing to take on an apprentice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bill stopped. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An apprentice - a Muggleborn - well, not quite Muggleborn per
      se, but Muggle-raised, if you will, who will be entering into
      Hogwarts for his Fifth Year, around three years from now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a lot of things Bill found confusing about that
      sentence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard sighed. "Again, I find myself saying too little
      and meaning too much. Would you care to join me for a walk
      outside?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbfounded, and a little curious, Bill followed him out of the
      front door of Randallana's Ritualist Rarities, finding himself in
      the middle of an early-morning mist, punctuated every few metres by
      black streetlamps. The streets of Jouglarie were cold and deserted.
      It was fairly ordinary-looking - Bill could almost believe it was a
      Muggle neighbourhood, apart from the fact that it was all built
      vertically on the side of a mountain. He stared upward, and
      although the sight was ordinary to him now, there was something
      perpetually astounding about seeing the rolling green hills of
      Scotland perpendicular to the ground. "So," he said, gathering his
      thoughts. "I hope I don't come off as rude, but mind telling me
      what this is about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As always, there was a long, contemplative pause before
      Dumbledore responded. "I read something rather curious in a back
      edition of the Journal of the Cyprian Thaumaturgical Research
      Society - a study produced by Lann Johnson and Gamil Aknaraja
      concerning the Cup of Magic, have you read it by any chance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Bill said, realising that on some level, he still
      wanted to try and impress Dumbledore. "They discussed how the sheer
      concentration of the magic in the Cup of Magic warps the thaumic
      continuum, almost wrapping it up in a cocoon and keeping it in a
      stable state."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They passed by a tall granite cylinder, connected to a thick
      cable of pulsing, glowing light that went off into the far distance
      and over the horizon. This was the central magical dispensary for
      Jouglarie, and its energy came directly from the Cup. Smaller,
      thinner strings branched off of it, leading to various stores. One
      particularly fat string went straight into the mountain. As Bill
      looked at it, the string flickered, and he felt a small tremble
      beneath him. <em class="calibre8">That's never happened before.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded at his explanation, and Bill was pleased to
      note that he did look at least a little impressed. Then, without
      warning, he brought out his wand and suddenly launched into a long
      string of twenty privacy spells that Bill knew (although he'd never
      heard them spoken so quickly), then five more that he didn't,
      followed by two more spells that he knew were probably spells of
      some sort, but when he tried to remember the syllables, it was like
      picking up wet soap with chopsticks. He simply couldn't remember
      them. By this point, Dumbledore had come to a stop, and struck at
      the air with his wand, making a satisfied sound when a blue ripple
      emerged from the air where his wand had struck it. He tested the
      protections more before beginning to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bill," he said gravely, "I have reason to believe that the
      conditions which enable the Cup to remain stable are degrading over
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was already totally silent, but after Dumbledore had said
      those words, everything seemed to fall into a deeper silence.
      Bill's mouth opened and closed, and it was some time before he
      managed to pull himself back to reality. Shops, businesses, Diagon
      Alley, Jouglarie, the Statute of Secrecy, the dimensional
      expansions - they all depended on the continual supply of magical
      energy - if the Cup of Magic . . . if the Cup of Magic degraded, he
      couldn't even imagine what would happen - assuming that the Cup
      didn't violently explode, forcing out enough magic to vaporise
      Britain (Bill rapidly recalculated in his head, something he'd
      always had a knack for, and came to the horrifying conclusion that
      Europe would probably be the lower-bound). "And you're telling me?"
      he said, incredulously, "why me? I can't do anything! And . . .
      and," he thought back to what Dumbledore had said earlier back in
      the shop, "what in Merlin's lower intestine does this have to do
      with me taking on an apprentice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Dumbledore finally responded, he seemed very tired. "There
      are one thousand eight hundred and eighty-five mutually
      interlocking prophecies that I have studied during my regency as
      Chief Warlock - with few of any particular import, alas - and in
      order to avert this coming catastrophe I fear that, much as we came
      to depend on the word of prophecy during the War against Voldemort,
      prophecy may once again save us. By no means will I ever force this
      upon you, Bill, but silly as it may seem, your future apprentice
      may be integral to saving wizardkind, and having asked previous
      Hogwarts staff, I soon came to the conclusion that his vast
      potential would be wasted on anyone of lesser skill than you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bill waved his hand irritably, although it was hard to get
      properly annoyed when the most powerful wizard in Europe was
      heaping praise on him. "So this is the one thing . . . the one
      approach, blind faith in prophecy and hoping for the best?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked slightly hurt. "Certainly not, Bill. The
      committee I assembled proposed around four hundred solutions, and
      we've already started gathering the resources for putting
      thirty-eight of the more practical proposals into action."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But," Dumbledore continued, "the success of those proposals are
      contingent on the apprenticeship."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fate does seem to have a predilection for narrowing the course
      of history down to the outcomes of single choices, annoying as it
      is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know how very busy you are, Bill, which is why I wouldn't ask
      this of you if the circumstances were any different, but I must
      know tonight. Will you take on Ozland Dwimmersmith as your
      apprentice in September 1995?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
