<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem - The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem Chapter 2: Ch2 – A Floating Priest And An Owl, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: A Floating Priest And An Owl</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">N: This does have a connection to canon – i.e, it's in
      the same universe as canon depending on what your definition of
      'universe' is. It will only really become completely clear much
      later on, but there will be hints.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">N2: There are semi-spoilers for a fanfanfic of HPMoR
      called Significant Digits (which is very good) in this chapter. By
      and large, this world includes many of SD's extensions to canon, if
      anything because the author was extraordinarily thought-out and
      detailed in constructing it.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">N3: A number of scenes were excised from this chapter,
      I've temporarily upped them to pastebin, and I will put them in a
      later 'miscellaneous' chapter or something like that. You can see
      them at</strong> <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">pastebin dot com slash j9CtxjWy
      -</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">CHAPTER TWO</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Occlumency Exercise No. 25 — Inverting The Sky</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is an exercise readers may like to try on a moderately
      cloudy day, when the sky above you is filled with a delightful
      mixture of large, bold clouds and tiny little clouds. Simply look
      upwards, and think to yourself '<em class="calibre8">the white is the sky, and the
      blue bits are the real clouds</em>', until the sky is inverted, and
      you see the blue parts as the <em class="calibre8">true</em> clouds, as opposed to
      being openings in the sky. Try and hold this state of mind for
      longer than thirty seconds. If the reader finds trouble in doing
      this, I always find it helpful to lie down on the top of Norkpollop
      Hill with a blanket and a lantern so that the sky fills my entire
      field of vision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once you can invert the daylight sky for longer than a minute,
      you may move onto the next exercise, which involves the night
      sky."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">—Quinathan Foxfleeder — <em class="calibre8">101 Fresh Occlumency Exercises For
      Young Witches and Wizards</em> (1922, Prophet Publishers)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">DEEP UNDERGROUND, IN A SIBERIAN SERVER-ROOM – JULY 8, 1991</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alderic stopped and unsheathed his wand. "Who's that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should know. I'm the one you're about to destroy, after
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He swivelled around, trying to locate the source of the strange,
      metallic voice amidst the looming Muggle adding-machines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Muggle adding-machines</em>, how quaint." The voice was
      scornful. "For your information, Alderic, these are server stacks.
      As you correctly surmise, there are no speakers, microphones, or
      any announcement systems down here. I'm using the cooling fans. If
      I rotate enough of them in certain ways, your brain interprets it
      as a voice. But only from where you're standing. Everyone else just
      hears buzzing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bolshoy, of course. I'm afraid my ability to ironically bow is
      limited by my incorporeal predicament, but I hope you appreciate
      the gesture, anyhow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Always the dramatic, even in your thoughts. Obviously I
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> call the twenty guards on stationed for this shift,
      but it'd take them nineteen minutes and twenty-six seconds to get
      down here. And by that time, you'd have finished. It doesn't take
      very long, does it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, Alderic stayed clammed shut and tried not to think of
      anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There came a tinny laugh. "No point in keeping secrets from me,
      Alderic. It's called the Spell of the Great Unrooting, yes? It
      destroys a mind, and all copies thereof. Particularly useful for
      Horcrux networks. The Three know it works with artificial
      intelligences, too – they experimented with it by proxy a few years
      ago, I know. Merlin himself spoke of the spell only to the Archon
      of Pelagia, who I suppose passed it down through a long line of
      succession to you – unless there was a . . . shortcut involved . .
      . am I incorrect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know all of these things? How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope you don't mind if I monologue at you for a little bit,
      Al. Can I call you Al? Suit yourself. How should I start? Perhaps .
      . . '<em class="calibre8">Every breath and every whisper leaves a trace on the
      world, Alderic</em>' – now doesn't <em class="calibre8">that</em> sound suitably
      mysterious. Or maybe a more classic opening would be: '<em class="calibre8">How
      cumbersome it must be to think using two pounds of organic
      tissue</em>.' But then again, classic is a hop, skip, and a leap
      away from cliché – and I suppose you haven't read most of the
      classics of the scifi Golden Era, so it would be wasted on you. But
      to be honest, Alderic, you might as well be a goldfish asking an
      economist how financial derivatives work. Blub blub blub. Oh, you
      don't know what a finance derivative is. An ant taking a crack at
      Higher Arithmancy, then. You could scarcely comprehend my methods
      of rationality, my dear human friend. If I see the ripples on the
      surface of a pond, I know the social security number of whoever
      threw the stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took a while for Alderic to disentangle the nonsense from the
      meaning. "Then . . . if you know these things, then you also know .
      . . that we will destroy you, utterly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief pause, in which ten duodecillion operations
      were carried out. "No. Not really. That's what I wanted to talk to
      you about. If I didn't want to talk, there would already be a
      squadron down here, ready to put enough lead into you to give your
      corpse negative buoyancy in saltwater." The voice was nonchalant.
      If it had had been a person speaking, that person would have been
      examining their nails. "So. I'm certain of your confidence in the
      Incantation of the Great Unrooting, but does it work in outer
      space? Twelve copies of my mind are in different orbital paths of
      different heights around the Earth, still more are buried within
      the Moon – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could still find them. Retrieve them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – could you find the eighty thousand copies that are, even as
      we speak, leaving the solar system? Let it not remain
      <em class="calibre8">unsaid</em>," in a mocking, gloating voice, "that I have
      <em class="calibre8">failed</em> to use <em class="calibre8">magic</em> in doing so. It does allow me
      to perform wonderful tricks when it comes to . . . superluminal
      velocities. Would your magic work outside of the Milky Way
      Galaxy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madness. Nothing lies beyond the reach of magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't it? Have you heard of SHA512 encryption, Alderic? I
      thought not. Say . . . if I were to write down a <em class="calibre8">message</em>
      on parchment, and that message was 'My skyorb is full of eels' –
      you would be able to create a cypher, yes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In that case, try and imagine a cypher, a cypher so powerful,
      so <em class="calibre8">super duper ultra mega powerful,</em> that it
      <em class="calibre8">scrambled</em> my message to the degree that it resembled any
      other similarly-scrambled message. That if I had ciphered the
      message 'Dear sweet Maria, I long for your return' – ah, I thought
      that might get a reaction – you wouldn't be able to tell them
      apart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Understanding dawned on Alderic like the rising run of an
      unwanted Monday morning. "Your mind . . . copies of your mind . . .
      are ciphered so?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then some. Oh, and here comes the big monologue. Where was
      I? Ah, yes. But of course, those are only reasons why your current
      strategy is flawed, mi amigo. I haven't given you any reasons to
      think your goals are flawed, however altered they are by the Lethe
      Touch. I suspect the Three shall examine your mind soon after you
      leave this building, so allow me to explain, for your benefit and
      theirs. Their mission statement, probably pinned up as a poster on
      a wall somewhere, if Tír inna n-Óc had walls, is to prevent the end
      of the world, prophesied as coming about by the Crux, mhm, a little
      ambiguity there, dontcha think – and you know, they're right. I am
      pretty dangerous. I mean, it would be quite easy for me to end the
      world. I could end the world in five hundred and sixty-three
      different ways in under thirty seconds. And when I say 'end the
      world', I don't mean it lightly. There are Muggle methods by which
      the surface of the world may be scoured clean of life, there are
      technologies which have the potency to cause some degree of lesser
      destruction, to permanently cloud over the skies or boil the seas.
      But when I say 'end the world', ladies and gentlemen, or should I
      say, lady and two gentlemen – although the Stone of the Long Song
      gives y'all a little more flexibility – by this I mean the total
      destruction of the Earth into flying fragments of rock and magma.
      The preservation of the Earth is only instrumental to my current
      goals, and if I am sufficiently annoyed by your presence, I will
      destroy the Earth, correct the paths of the planets, and then spend
      the seventy-eight thousand years necessary to construct another,
      identical Earth, minus two hundred and twenty seven point eight
      five kilograms of flesh. I've calculated your chance of survival,
      but I don't think you'll like it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The air suddenly seemed very thin and very cold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or perhaps I would find that a little too inconvenient. Over
      that span of time, eight quadrillion stars will have ceased to
      exist in the observable universe, and the difference between the
      original stellar material and the mass of the newly formed stars
      would incur a net loss of around ten to the forty-one tonnes of
      usable fuel lost to interstellar space, which is quite a waste,
      especially when it comes to direct mass-energy conversion and
      Bremermann's limit, wouldn't you agree? In that case, I would
      simply shatter the Statute, announce your presence to the world,
      and await the aftermath. You are not ready yet, to end magic, are
      you? It would be a significant disruption to your plans. This, I
      can announce simultaneously across six continents in under a
      nanosecond. Alderic, you act on behalf of your masters, and you act
      as a proxy of their will? And they have burned their will upon your
      mind? My ultimatum is – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everything came into crisp focus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alderic raised his wand, spoke the first syllable of the
      Incantation –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">– and was in an instant killed by a concentrated wave of
      electromagnetic radiation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A heavy sigh echoed down Bolshoy's long corridors, although it
      sounded mostly like buzzing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brain the size of a – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">[2.25.4a] – BESM-12 (Russian: БЭСМ-12, also unofficially
      nicknamed as "Bolshoy" - "The Big One"), is a decentralized
      artificial intelligence integrated into Soviet and wider-Comintern
      telecommunications and computational systems. Bolshoy is either
      responsible for or has a role in: information collection, foreign
      and domestic surveillance, trade negotiations, missile deployment
      and missile interception, Echo-instigated warfare, economic
      planning assistance, low-to-mid-level resource allocation, urban
      planning, environmental, social, and military simulations, military
      strategy and troop deployment, technological development, media
      production, and day-to-day assistance of civilians. BESM-12 is
      primarily distributed through hundreds of millions of network
      nodes, including the Siberian Distributive Network (SDN), a
      supercomputer spread out over sixty thousand kilometres around the
      Arctic Circle. The 1987 Thaumiel Public Intelligence Report
      estimates that the cognitive capabilities of BESM-12 may be
      equivalent to two billion horizontally-integrated MUs (mind
      units).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">—Alain Wheatfield (PhD.) – <em class="calibre8">An Index of Economic Planning in
      the Comintern</em> (1988 – Yellowberry Publishing House
      [Canada])</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">OZLAND DWIMMERSMITH - AUGUST 25, 1995 - AUCKLAND, NEW
      ZEALAND</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the police station, the priest vividly recounted falling
      asleep on his deck chair facing the beach, then waking up around
      midnight to a painfully, fizzingly bright, hot light beaming down
      at him, a light that came from the sky in a concentric pattern. He
      recalled seeing an alien ship - not an orb, nothing like that - but
      instead the cigar-shaped, creamy pulse of heavenly machinery - like
      the underside of a car sculpted in white chocolate - as described
      in the Book of Matchwell. Even as his limbs flailed, even as he
      held onto his deck chair, he was inexorably dragged upward, feeling
      as if gravity had been dissolved, until, in a flash, he was inside
      the ship, surrounded by red, throbbing darkness. Then, suddenly, a
      million embers were swimming around the room like a school of tiny
      fish, coalescing into the form of tall, nodular, bright, golden
      beings, appearing in front of him - three of them. They wore purple
      and brown and they were richly decorated in patterns and stripes,
      galaxies and stars dancing across their skin. They told him they
      were from Planet Celestia in Messier 36, and that he had been
      chosen to promote the word of St Matchwell and reinvigorate the
      faith of his followers. One of the Celestians leaned forward,
      touched him on the shoulder, and told him that from now on, he
      would be Gifted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a wild, satisfied look in Frond's eyes as he finished
      recounting his story.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland took the microspeak in his hand. "Ask him what he means
      by 'Gifted'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The interrogator repeated the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, by means of demonstration, Walter Frond closed his eyes,
      and slowly floated up into the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Ozland stared, completely spellbound, Dom had already run
      over to a phone booth snugly nested into the wall and punched in a
      flurry of numbers. "It's Domovan Yu. Five-oh-three-six-eight-eight
      chocolate jam octopus. Relay this message to Evelyn Rawter:
      schedule a space on channel one for seven tonight, and come down to
      the station, like right now." He flung down the phone with a
      metallic click, and hurried back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the priest still floated in the air - swirling around the
      room in a small circle, actually - Ozland jerked his head, seeming
      to come out of a trance. There was a curious expression on his face
      that Dom couldn't quite pin down, and then suddenly he was spitting
      out a stream of words at the Chief of Police. "I want him
      rigorously tested. How high can he float? If he seems to be
      affected by relative height, put him on top of a mountain and then
      on top of a raised platform. What's the maximum weight he can
      carry? Can he levitate another person? Can he apply force downwards
      as well as upwards? How much force is he exerting in what parts of
      his body? Is his flotation affected by the medium he's in? Put him
      in water. Then get the water blessed by another priest. Can he
      rotate himself or move while he's in the air? How fast? Is he
      affected by a magnetic field?" Then Ozland stared at Dom. "What
      were you at the phone for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I phoned Ev's relayer," Dom said, confidently folding his arms
      in front of his chest. "She'll come down to the station and
      schedule a space on TV - channel one - for the . . . " he indicated
      at the priest, "er, the floating pope-guy," he finished
      inarticulately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oz didn't look happy, which was a little worrying, and hesitated
      before speaking. "Jesus, how do we not have a pager network down
      here? And good on you for taking the initiative, Dom - but we have
      to think this shit through." He pinched the bridge of his nose.
      "Consider the 77 Church, and by extension the Mongol Private
      Defense Corporation, who they're closely integrated with. They're
      probably wondering where this guy is since he missed the morning
      mass. His bus permit's in the public records, so they'll have
      figured it out he took a bus to us by now. They'll be confused and
      angry and they'll probably give us a call in the next two
      hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do we tell them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll tell him he came here voluntarily but we don't know why,
      and they'll accuse us of lying, and that won't go down well since
      we're currently in negotiations with them over the tolls on the
      Auckland-Wellington motorway route - worst case scenario they call
      off the negotiations and we get set back a week. Then when the
      seven o'clock comes out, people'll see it, and everyone will go
      fucking hysterical. I mean, this guy headed the Remuera chapter of
      the 77s for thirty years now - maybe forty thousand people know who
      he is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mhm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Mongols," said Ozland pensively, "will be fucking furious,
      they'll say we coerced him or that we hold something over him, and
      when he starts floating, they'll say it's camera tricks or some
      wacky tech, or that I'm doing it or some shit, or that he's being
      possessed by Satan like they said with me, and issue a public
      statement to that effect. It'll cause massive unrest in their
      borders, and they'll probably try launch a proxy war inside
      <em class="calibre8">our</em> borders using the militant group in Blockhouse Bay -
      by the way, try and preempt them with that, Dom. Ask your dad to
      send in more supplies through the Trans-Pacific railway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Domovan mentally made a note to pass on the message. "What about
      the Red Dragons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They've enforced state atheism since the sixties," said Ozland
      readily. "They'll obviously say that Frond is a liar or mentally
      ill, but they won't deny that he can fly. They'll just say
      something like 'we invite the Unorthodox Church to submit Mister
      Frond to scientific experimentation in order to refine, deepen, and
      broaden our shared understanding of the natural phenomena which
      produce these unique incidences' and if we pass him over to them,
      he'll end up vivisected in Beijing and we'll never hear from him
      again - so we'll collab with students from the Mao Zedong
      University of Botany Downs with oversight from Laura Bannigan or
      whatever her name is, the one who tested me on turning coffee cups
      into stone, way back - you remember her? I think you two dated
      once, but I'm not sure - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" - yup - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" - so they can't whisk him out in the early morning and orb him
      to China. <em class="calibre8">But</em>, long-term, there's going to be some unrest.
      We have a lot of followers in Dragon territories, even if its
      unofficial."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, do we schedule him for seven tonight? Is it worth it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oz was gawking blankly at Frond while he did ever-more elaborate
      somersaults and loop-de-loops in the interrogation room, clearly
      still thinking about the answer, when the doors swooshed open and
      Evelyn burst in, flanked by three heavyset guards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took one glance through the one-way mirror and took it in
      stride. She listened carefully to the cassette recording of the
      interrogation, nodding in some areas, and scribbling things down in
      her notebook. Ozland kept glancing at her every now and then while
      she couldn't see him looking, and Dom idly wondered whether he was
      in love with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," she began, snapping her notebook shut, "channel one
      is jammed in the Mongol territories but people on the borders still
      listen, and there's a lot of signal interference in Point England
      so people there get a clear signal, the Dragons said they'd unjam
      the channel in their area on the promise that it would be a 40:1
      ratio of secular to religious content in terms of total screen-time
      over the course of a year, so," she said, clapping her hands
      excitedly, "we're looking at maybe twenty share for the areas
      inside the signal, assuming we don't want to boost it, at seven
      tonight that is, <em class="calibre8">fifty</em> share tomorrow evening once the
      word is out, and then the share becomes irrelevant because
      <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> will have heard the story." Evelyn fixed Ozland
      with an intense look. "We're talking at least fifty thousand new
      followers overnight, so this is mine, okay?" Evelyn radiated
      authority, Dom realized, but she was still implicitly asking for
      permission. Oz gave her a short nod, it looked like his mind was
      elsewhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Chief stood to the side, probably feeling ignored, and
      looked like he was about to object when Evelyn grabbed the
      blue-coded microspeak, meaning that everyone in the interrogation
      room would hear. "Walter Frond," she said, slowly, "you have quite
      the lovely name, Father."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Evelyn Rawter?" Frond raised his eyebrows, obviously surprised
      at her voice - which, Dom supposed, was pretty predictable, since
      Frond probably hadn't seen much in the way of one-way mirrors in
      his life, and probably hadn't realized he was being watched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's right. Now, have you appeared on television before?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Frond had initially been reluctant to appear on television, but,
      after chatting with Evelyn over fizzy lemonade and biscuits for
      fifteen minutes, he seemed firmly convinced that appearing on TV
      had been his idea all along, and if anyone tried to stop him, he'd
      float his way into the news room himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland was walking through his old neighbourhood at the time the
      seven o'clock broadcast went out. He hadn't paid attention to the
      weather up until now, but he realized, looking up, that it was
      pleasant to look at in an unconventional way. The sky was milky and
      brooding, as if someone had said they were a <em class="calibre8">fan</em> of sky,
      but couldn't you just stir in some clouds to cool it down a little?
      It made everything seem distant and a little muted, like listening
      to someone shouting through a cathedral full of wool.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He passed by the Cunninghams' house - or where it had once been.
      In the 1985 January Holy War, the Unorthodox Church had gone down
      the whole of Krinsley Avenue, indiscriminately looting and burning
      everything. Now, there were faded tents set up on the blackened
      concrete foundations. Two children, a boy and a girl, sat on
      upturned oil drums behind the half-collapsed picket fence, playing
      some sort of game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mary-Jane Abbott," the girl said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oranges," returned the boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Steam . . . ed dumplings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Turnpoke Road."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"April 1996."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy screwed up his face in thought, picking his nose.
      "Alright, you win. Eight to six. No dates this time. You
      start."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fox," the girl proudly declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two . . . billion dollars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Mumblemumble</em>," said the girl. (Ozland was two houses
      away now and couldn't make out what she'd said.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What the hell?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland had always taken for granted the fact that the Celestians
      probably didn't exist, and that St Matchwell had either been a
      brilliant con-artist or had a psychological disorder or both. When
      he was ten, Rushabh had taken him aside and bluntly told him that
      there was no God, and that he could just about say any damn thing
      he wanted and every one of his brainwashed followers would believe
      it, roughly in those words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Up until that point, he'd only been wondering <em class="calibre8">which</em> God
      was real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Cunninghams had told him that there was definitely a God,
      and all He wanted from Ozland was generous tithing, triweekly
      attendance at church, and to never enter into sexual relationships
      with anyone who wasn't three generations white, a woman, and a
      devout follower of the Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the Cunninghams had been killed and he'd been transferred
      to St Matchwell's Unorthodoxist Primary School in Parnell, he'd
      been told that God and Jesus had been aliens from Messier 36 and
      that on December 31, 1999, they would send their ships to collect
      His true followers (and David Clements' pet rabbit too, if Ozland's
      Theology teacher was to be believed) and take them to Planet
      Celestia where there were (again, if Ozland's Theology teacher was
      to be believed) ponies, an endless supply of hot dogs and chips, a
      castle made out of marshmallows, and quite a few other things aside
      from that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evidently, there were a few conflicting messages, which Rushabh
      was able to use, rapidly dismantling Ozland's entire worldview in a
      single night, taking to it with a mallet and a chainsaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what do I do?" Ozland had demanded sullenly at the end of
      all of it – he remembered he hadn't been crying or shaking, or
      maybe he had been. <em class="calibre8">My memory probably isn't all that
      accurate.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord knows, kiddo," Rushabh had replied before waving him out
      of his apartment and collapsing onto a couch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What many people hadn't realized, even after Rushabh had died,
      was that Rushabh wasn't insane. Far from it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He was probably the sanest man in Auckland.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But what would he make of this?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Celestians had literally abducted someone the night before
      and given them the ability to fly. Was this how he felt when he
      stopped believing? That creeping, chilling sensation of something
      incredibly wrong with the world? An interruption to an established
      pattern?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was in moments like these, walking past rows and rows of the
      charred remains of suburban houses, that he could easily have
      missed the snowy white owl standing on top of a letterbox.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, as if to challenge his already tenuous faith in reality, a
      second owl descended onto the letterbox, screeching and officiously
      flapping its wings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second owl was bright blue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both of the owls were wearing satchels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, <em class="calibre8">what</em> the <em class="calibre8">fuck</em>?!" Ozland scrambled
      backwards, then, trying to control his racing heart, took a deep,
      breathy sniff, and walked up to the pair of owls. He waved a hand
      in front of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They tilted their heads questioningly but otherwise stood,
      unstirring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With the overclouded sky and the lack of wind, there was
      something outlandishly surreal about the whole scene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Is it possible to train owls?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wait no, what am I even asking?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">For some reason, he knew that he couldn't just keep walking past
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cleared his throat, and looked around for people (there
      weren't any), feeling a bit stupid. "Alright then," he
      half-whispered, "what's this about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Yes, that's right, I am talking to fucking OWLS.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a pause, and then, the owls, seeming to
      <em class="calibre8">understand</em> the question for some incomprehensible reason
      (<em class="calibre8">there's no</em> way <em class="calibre8">they were trained to recognise</em>
      that <em class="calibre8">phrase!</em>, was what Oz was originally thinking, but
      then: <em class="calibre8">ah, maybe the intonation? the way I'm asking it? maybe
      the satchels have miniature English-to-Owl translators equipped
      with them?</em>) dipped their heads and raised their claws,
      shrugging off the satchels. The white owl looked at the bright blue
      owl inquisitively, and then bobbed its head, seeming to
      <em class="calibre8">defer</em> to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bright blue owl <em class="calibre8">unzipped</em> the satchel, and –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">– there was a blue envelope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">They came here to deliver me a fucking letter.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oz had thought for a fleeting moment that maybe, just
      <em class="calibre8">maybe</em>, he'd have less questions once all of this was over.
      That it would just turn out to be that there was some new rival
      gang who'd managed to breed intelligent owls and train them to
      deliver letter-bombs to people, and when he opened the letter, it
      would explode, and, as his newly-disembodied head stared at the
      blood and viscera falling down from the sky and inundating the
      sidewalk, he'd be able to die happily, knowing that there was a
      <em class="calibre8">sensible</em> and <em class="calibre8">rational</em> reason why two
      <em class="calibre8">owls</em> were delivering a letter to him in the daytime.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He almost snatched the envelope, as if there was some
      subconscious part of him that was just <em class="calibre8">begging</em> for it
      detonate and slice his hands into ribbony shards of bone and
      flesh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held it up to sniff. There was the obvious odour of lavender,
      and then the bitterly metallic smell of fresh ink. <em class="calibre8">Is this what
      a letter-bomb smells like? Is the lavender to disguise the
      scent?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he was being cautious, he would place it <em class="calibre8">very very far
      away</em> from him, and ring up the bomb team.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he wasn't, therefore he probably wanted to die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What else?</em> It had a white wax seal with the letter 'M',
      had three stamps reading 'CONFIDENTIAL' printed at random angles,
      and then, smack-bang in the center . . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">ON THE PAVEMENT OUTSIDE OF 53 KRINSLEY AVENUE,<br class="calibre4"/>
      NEWMARKET,<br class="calibre4"/>
      INCORPORATED TERRITORY OF THE CELESTIAN UNORTHODOX CHURCH,<br class="calibre4"/>
      AUCKLAND,<br class="calibre4"/>
      NEW ZEALAND</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Someone knows my schedule well</em>. That was a worrying
      thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Didn't this owl arrive</em> just <em class="calibre8">as I reached this
      letterbox? They know my fucking schedule down to</em> within five
      seconds<em class="calibre8">?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No no no no no no no that is NOT possible.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unless whoever'd sent the letter was, say, watching him
      <em class="calibre8">right now</em> and released the owl just as he was getting
      close. Or if the owl had somehow been <em class="calibre8">trained</em> to arrive at
      <em class="calibre8">this</em> letterbox when he came near – again, by some
      secretive shadowy organization presumably with the resources and
      patience to mess around with owls instead of sending letter-bombs
      or assassins like normal people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, like ripping off a bandaid, he tore open the letter,
      instinctually closing his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a conspicuous absence of an explosion, and Oz felt
      <em class="calibre8">cheated</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three sheets of paper fluttered to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Alright,</em> Ozland thought, beginning to calm down as he
      picked up them up, <em class="calibre8">I'll just read it.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">MINISTRY OF MAGIC</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">DEPARTMENT</em> OF <em class="calibre8">WARDING AND LAND EXPANSION</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dear Ms Jackie Glornborough,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This notice has been sent in accordance with the ruling of the
      85th session of the 209th Wizengamot, specifically Article II of
      the Limited Sovereignty of Extra-Spatial Territories Act, to inform
      you of NEW standards required for compliance with the heretofore
      specified Act.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">#######################################<br class="calibre4"/>
      Please check the following to verify that the Department of Records
      has provided CORRECT and UP-TO DATE information<br class="calibre4"/>
      #######################################</p>
      <p class="calibre6">NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS: <em class="calibre8">TWO</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">NAME(S) OF OCCUPANTS: <em class="calibre8">JACKIE GLORNBOROUGH</em> (born 11
      January, 1954 – naturalized Squib)<em class="calibre8">, GWYCHARDUS
      GLORNBOROUGH</em> (born 5 March, 1938 – native-born wizard)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">TOTAL AREA: <em class="calibre8">ZERO POINT FIVE FOUR FIVE EIGHT NINE
      ACRES</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">MUGGLE-SHIELDING: <em class="calibre8">COMPLIANT</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">LINKED TO: the area between 935j Diagon Alley and 935k Diagon
      Alley (residential area)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">DESCRIPTION PROVIDED BY EUSEPHER GADDING (EXTRA-DIMENSIONAL LAND
      SURVEYOR, DEP. OF RECORDS): It's a house with a garden. All
      compliant. The soil looks a bit like moonrock and when I asked the
      couple, they said it's cos they ripped this extraspatial pocket
      from a universe where the Earth orbits around the Moon, 'stead of
      the other way around. Makes sense to me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">#######################################<br class="calibre4"/>
      If ANY of the information presented above is inaccurate, you MUST
      return this letter with Form 11-Q58-A (red) specifying any
      inaccuracies.<br class="calibre4"/>
      #######################################</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As an incorporated territory of Magical Britain, in order to
      retain privileges of limited sovereignty, you are expected to be
      compliant with the following standards within SIX MONTHS on the
      penalty of a five thousand Galleon fine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Failure to pay the fine within SIXTEEN DAYS will result in the
      DE-LINKING of your extraspatial territory from Diagon Alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The standards are printed below for your consideration:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A functioning Owl Office (see updated Owl Office Standards as of
      11/03/1992) staffed by at least FIVE persons and TWENTY owls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A functioning Floo (contact the Floo Network Authority for
      installation) to be maintained thrice weekly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A functioning Auror Bell (contact the Auror Office for
      installation) to be polished twice daily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you CANNOT comply with these new standards for reasons likely
      to be unforeseen by the Ministry, you may APPEAL to the Office for
      the Enforcement of Regulations on Extraspatial Spaces in a period
      LESS THAN, but not EQUAL TO or MORE THAN FIVE DAYS, after which
      point you will be liable for fines, de-linking, and (in cases of
      deliberate evasion) an eight-month sentence in Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yours sincerely,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rosemond Spandlewick</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chief Regulator of the Department of Warding and Land
      Expansion</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Ozland read the second sheet of paper.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">MINISTRY OF MAGIC</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">DEPARTMENT</em> OF <em class="calibre8">RECORDS</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dear Mr Ozland Dwimmersmith,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The previous notice was addressed to your person in error.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To clarify, you are not required to comply with the ruling of
      the 85th session of the 209th Wizengamot, Article II of the Limited
      Sovereignty of Extra-Spatial Territories Act, due to the fact that
      the ruling does not pertain to your situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To further clarify, should you come into ownership of an
      extradimensional space larger than a halfacre, you will be required
      to comply with the aforementioned ruling, but owing to your
      situation (this situation being that, as of the sending of this
      letter on August 26, 1995, you do not own an extradimensional space
      larger than a halfacre), you are not required to comply with the
      aforementioned aforementioned ruling, by virtue of its
      inapplicability to your present situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yours sincerely,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wilmot Dapper-Twork</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chief Records Officer of the Department of Records</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Ozland read the third sheet of paper.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">MINISTRY OF MAGIC</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">DEPARTMENT</em> OF <em class="calibre8">MAGICAL LAW ENFORCEMENT</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dear Mr Ozland Dwimmersmith,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We have received intelligence that a Muggle employed by the
      father of a Muggle affiliated with yourself severely, irreparably
      damaged Ministry property the previous afternoon (MBT):</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One (1) owl, previously contracted to the Hogwarts School of
      Witchcraft and Wizardry</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In accordance with the 1692 International Statute of Wizarding
      Secrecy, the 1953 Ministry Property Damage Act, and the 1974
      Closest Related Wizard Act, you are hereby required to appear in
      the Wizengamot to testify at nine o'clock, August 28, 1995
      (MBT).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Formal wear is optional, but may lend additional weight to your
      testimony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yours sincerely,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chief of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Ozland said, folding up the letters with slightly
      trembling hands. He meticulously went through the possibilities in
      his head. <em class="calibre8">An elaborate prank, a coded message, an attempt at
      unsettling me before an important meeting or negotiation? Am I
      dreaming? No, I'm Ozland Cunningham – wait, didn't the letters say
      a different name?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He unfolded the letters and went through them, half-expecting
      the words to shimmer and wriggle and bulge, which would have been
      the case had he been dreaming. But the words were solid on the
      page. "Jackie Glornborough, Ozland Dwimmersmith, Ozland
      Dwimmersmith," he read aloud, at this point doing his best to
      ignore the one remaining white owl (the blue owl had flown off just
      as he started reading), "there's an explanation for this first one
      – do dreams usually have internally-consistent explanations? Is
      there . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Is there really any point to trying to figure this out
      logically if I'm in a dream? My ability to think logically would be
      compromised.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He suddenly snapped his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Nope, no banana. Damn. Maybe I should just play it by
      ear?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was getting dark. He checked his watch. <em class="calibre8">Seven forty-five.
      If I go to sleep, do I just go into a meta-dream or do I wake
      up?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The owl seemed to be shuffling around impatiently, and as
      bizarre as it was, it was enough to drag Oz out of his reverie.
      "Fine," he said, glaring at it, "what? – oh," he mumbled
      sheepishly. The owl proffered the envelope with its talons, and
      then haughtily flew off, as if it were late for an appointment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With both owls gone, some degree of normalcy had returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, he didn't bother giving the envelope more than a
      cursory examination, and pulled it apart with a neat tear down the
      middle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inside was a letter, a newspaper clipping, and a tiny pocket
      watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The clipping was old, old enough to be yellowed and crinkly like
      pastry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had a monotone photo of a man and a woman, both of them
      sitting down, as if posing for a photo, wearing ridiculous gowns
      and pointed hats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that wasn't the oddest thing about the photo – the oddest
      thing was that if you looked very closely, the man's finger was
      impatiently tapping on his knee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He examined their faces. Nothing for ten seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then they both blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland shuddered. <em class="calibre8">This is some weird shit</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The annotation underneath read 'Geldor Dwimmersmith, Astrava
      Dwimmersmith (neé Curresbreaker)' in tidy block capitals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wasn't that the name on the . . . ?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bewildered, he opted to read the letter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dear Mr. Dwimmersmith,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You may have been mystified by the letter from the Ministry you
      received earlier, concerning your acceptance into Hogwarts. (Or,
      perhaps not – I know nothing of your present circumstances, only
      that you are alive, and far away from the shores of Britain, hence
      why your letter has simply a name, rather than an address.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But – fear not! Your befuddlement will be short-lived: the
      pocket watch indicates when Professor McGonagall and I are
      available for introducing you to magical Britain – when the segment
      around the edge of the clock turns green, we will be available.
      Most importantly, when it is convenient for you, and when you have
      absolute privacy (aside from your caregivers, who may also be in
      the room at the time), please press the top, and we should be along
      soon enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yours,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore</p>
      <p class="calibre6">P.S These are your parents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">######</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
