<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem - The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem Chapter 3: Ch3 – Puddlejumping, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Puddlejumping</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: part of the reason why I wrote this fic was because
      part of the magic of Harry Potter was being introduced to a
      strange, weird world that was unfamiliar to us as it was to Harry.
      I've done my best to mess shit right up to recreate that sense of
      unfamiliar weirdness and I hope you find it refreshing. But be
      assured, there is reason in madness.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">CHAPTER THREE</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In this document we outline a proposal to extend Soviet
      sovereignty in space through moving agricultural production to
      Venus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We discuss our rationale in the first section.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the sections following, we discuss a rigorous methodology for
      the terraforming of Venus into an environment suitable for
      permanent habitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The remainder of the document is dedicated to considering
      potential social, economic, and political implications of this
      proposal, and how cooperation may be secured with the Ministry of
      Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Briefly, our terraforming proposal involves:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1. Application of the Orendellian Cooling Ritual (a.k.a
      <em class="calibre8">Kalsekulma</em>, development from Glacius Charm) - approx. five
      gigathaums - in order to bring Venus's atmospheric carbon dioxide
      to its triple point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2. Dry ice will be shipped and deposited on Mars, outer-system
      moons (Io, Europa, Ganymede etc.), or ejected into space as
      convenient. Suggested transportation methods outlined in
      document.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">3. Application of Kithrup's Water Ritual (development from
      Aguamenti Charm) - approx. thirty gigathaums required to create 460
      quintillion litres of water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">4. A scalable nitrogen-fixation mechanism invented by F. Gornak
      (paper in references)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">5. Biological seeding mechanisms invented by various
      xenoagriculture specialists (listed in credits).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Should the Committee accept our proposal and begin this year
      (1963), Venus will be habitable for genetically-engineered strains
      of wheat, rice, maize, soybeans, barley, and sorghum by 1985, and
      will be a fully-habitable Earth-like environment by 1989, according
      to optimistic projections.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- Предложение о создании обитаемой среды на Венере посредством
      терраформирования (1963), "A proposal for the terraforming of Venus
      into a habitable environment (1963)", translated by Zhabina Pavla
      Yakovna (1984)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Venus, goddess of love that you are</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Surely the things I ask</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Can't be too great a task</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Venus, if you do I promise that I always will be
      true</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'll give her all the love I have to give</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">As long as we both shall live</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">AUGUST 14, 1995, THE VOID</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He closed his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albert Jackson was sitting in a lilac armchair in a void, dotted
      by stars. Hundreds of thousands of kilometres below him, was Venus,
      with its turquoise oceans, obscured by thick clouds, like the mist
      on a bathhouse mirror. Aphrodite, the main continent, was tiled
      with millions of farms, squares of yellow and light-green. There
      were cities, too, with populations in the hundreds of thousands -
      whenever a pollinating drone needed to be repaired, whenever an
      automatic tractor needed fixing, whenever a transport path broke
      down, they were there. With the sheer economies of scale and the
      clockwork efficiency of the entire operation, no Earth farm could
      really compete. Three orbcraft, their golden surfaces gleaming,
      undocked from the Venusian loading-sites, briefly exchanged
      protocols with his own craft, and then disappeared - accelerating
      to near light-speed in a fraction of an instant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He opened his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albert Jackson was sitting in a lilac armchair in a cosy room,
      dimly lit by three lamps on top of three bookshelves, all
      overflowing with books he'd read eight times over. On the other
      side of the room was a small, unobtrusive clock and a vase of dead
      primroses. Directly facing him was another armchair - a yellow one
      - and up until recently, it had been empty. But a man with blond
      hair had slipped in through the door while his eyes were
      closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Albert Jackson," the man said, flashing a smile, "I thought
      I might surprise you. I'm Gilderoy Locker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man seemed to think the name was its own explanation, and
      Albert had the feeling he'd seen the man's face somewhere, maybe in
      a newspaper, but otherwise drew a total blank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">«<em class="calibre8">Don't ask me, my memory goes back billions of years, but I
      have no damn clue who this bloke is. Probably some posh businessy
      fuck, judging by his prissy suit.</em>» said Kvasar in the back of
      his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Locker, whoever you are," Albert said bluntly,
      "everything that happens on this ship, I know about. So what's your
      business in my quarters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Locker looked taken aback, but smiled again good-naturedly. "You
      certainly don't mince your words, Albert, I can appreciate that -
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">«<em class="calibre8">He smiles too much, don't trust him further than you can
      throw him out of an airlock.</em>»</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" - I take it you don't recognise me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albert scratched his nose. "No, not really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahem, well, I happen to be on the board of the Executive
      Council," he declared. The phrase carried with it a certain pompous
      weight, as if he had said 'the throne' or 'the presidency'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man shuffled about in his seat, all the while maintaining
      that good-natured smile. "The Executive Council of Standard
      Holdings, would I be right in saying you've heard of the corporate
      owner of this orbcraft?" He'd obviously intended them to come
      across as light-hearted, but instead the words were
      condescending.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">«<em class="calibre8">What a fucking prick! Make sure he isn't anyone too
      important and sock him good to teach him a lesson,</em>» the orb
      said, testily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Albert replied. He'd only recently finished reading
      'The Depression and the Rise of the All-American Oligarchy: 1939 -
      1971' by Bernard Luckwater. After the new regime had struck down
      all the antitrust legislation, all of the largest companies began
      merging together - Chrysler with General Motors, Exxon Mobil with
      Amoco, and so on and so on until -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Walter Rockefeller?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mhm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His death?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, really?" Albert had probably missed that newspaper. "I
      suppose it happens to all of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Locker said with an odd look on his face, "all of us.
      And when it happened to him, he left his entire fortune - an eighth
      of the global economy at the time, really - to his cat,
      Tibbles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is all very interesting trivia, Mister Locker, but what
      does that have to do with the price of tea in China?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">«<em class="calibre8">Notice how his smile is getting more and more fixed by the
      minute,</em>» murmured Kvasar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Executive Council," the man said, sighing, "is vested with
      the responsibility of acting on behalf of Tibbles. I'm the ninth
      member of the Council, as matter of fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">«<em class="calibre8">Explains why he had the keys to get up here in the first
      place,</em>» said the orb, nonchalantly. «<em class="calibre8">I bet he's a serial
      killer who gets off on knifing old orb-pilots and eating their
      livers with fava beans and a nice chianti. Either that or you're
      about to be promoted. I'd call it fifty-fifty. I hope you have your
      switchblade with you - I mean, do the sums, probably best to stab
      him right now on the off-chance.</em>»</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albert, still in his pyjamas, blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm about to ask you a few questions, and some of them might
      seem odd to you, but bear with me," he unsheathed a gnarled,
      light-reddish stick. "Do you know what this is, Mr Jackson?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albert <em class="calibre8">felt</em> a flash of recognition, but it disappeared,
      like clutching onto a dream, until maybe it wasn't recognition at
      all. "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">was</em> good," the man murmured under his breath. "Do
      you remember Julita?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. She was my wife," Albert said coldly. "And what's
      the point of all this questioning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your wife passed away some time ago. Do you remember attending
      the funeral?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I don't . . . she . . .</em> "No. I must've, though. She
      told me . . . if she went before I did, I should put primroses on
      her grave. I must . . . I must have been on one of the Venusian
      colonies, I . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you remember the last thing she said?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albert rocked back and forth, deep in thought. "She said she . .
      . needed to go some place, a place outside of Britain." He looked
      up. "Is this a promotion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man smiled. "I suppose you could call it a promotion of
      sorts." Gilderoy Lockhart closed his eyes, and flicked his wand in
      a concentric pattern. "<em class="calibre8">Eunoe</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Crandlestoom, do you remember now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">. . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">. . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you say <em class="calibre8">Lord</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Twenty billion subjective years ago</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many times?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One hundred and nine trillion, trillion, trillion, trillion,
      trillion. I'm not sure if you can imagine it - a feeling of cosmic
      frustration every time something goes wrong, in fact, I know you
      can't because we've had this exact conversation twenty thousand
      times. But I know, if I keep going, keep going, if I have
      <em class="calibre8">all</em> of the prophecies, if I guide everything perfectly,
      well - it's assured, isn't it? It's just a question of rolling the
      die just another time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">OZLAND CUNNINGHAM / DWIMMERSMITH - AUGUST 25, 1995 - 12
      MARSDEN ST., SANDRINGHAM, INCORPORATED TERRITORY OF THE CELESTIAN
      UNORTHODOX CHURCH AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten p.m.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten fifteen p.m.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten thirty p.m.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten forty-five p.m.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland's hands were trembling, his greyish-brown hair gleamed
      with sweat. He'd been staring at the watch from the envelope for an
      unbroken ten minutes. The phone had rung, he'd picked it up,
      shouted incoherently into it, and flung it down again. He paced
      around in his house, occasionally taking a swig from a bottle of
      water. The doorbell had rung, it was Evelyn. She'd told him he
      looked like a total wreck, and he'd nodded impatiently and said
      he'd be unavailable for most of the night. She asked him if he'd
      seen her on the seven o'clock broadcast. He replied that he hadn't
      been watching TV at the time. She looked a bit crestfallen, but
      seemed heartened when he suggested he could borrow a recording from
      the station, and told her he'd get one sent through the post.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, he went to a mirror, wiped the beads of perspiration
      from his forehead, combed, changed, and then changed again into
      something more nondescript and bland. He dunked his head into the
      refrigerator, but after a while it started beeping and leaking
      water. He'd downed three white pills of something, and was halfway
      through his third sandwich of something else - hopefully not the
      same thing that the pills were made of - sitting at the table in
      the kitchen, almost glaring at the faux marble, when out of the
      corner of his eye, he saw a flash of colour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The watch was green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt like vomiting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He leant over, holding it for a while, and then pushed down the
      latch release, using both thumbs even though it wasn't really
      necessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a soft click.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pressed it again, and nothing happened again - except for
      that soft click.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He counted, second by second, as a minute passed - and then
      another minute, and then another. With each second, he felt more
      and more relieved. A minute later, he broke out into a wide
      smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After another minute had passed, he'd come up with several
      mundane explanations for the owls and the letters, and almost
      convinced himself that he'd been tricked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was when the doorbell rang.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland shivered, straightened his jacket, and walked to the
      front door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Alright, it's probably Evelyn again. Or maybe the post? No,
      hold on - I haven't rung them about that yet. Dom? Kevin? Nobody
      else knows where I live.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grasped the knob, and a prickly sensation ran down his back.
      For the sake of caution, he decided to look through the peephole
      first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A strange sight confronted him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two figures stood at the door. One was holding a stick with a
      light coming from the tip, and as his eyes adjusted, he was able to
      make out more details. The man holding the stick looked to be in
      his mid thirties, but he had an enormous gray beard that went down
      to his waist, which swung, ever so slightly, in the late night
      breeze. Ozland wondered if it was dyed, and then wondered
      <em class="calibre8">why</em> someone would dye their beard gray. Like the woman
      standing next to him, he wore a rather silly-looking pointy black
      hat, the top of which was slumped over. He wore a robe, which,
      Ozland could just about tell, was faintly purple.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman looked to be in her late twenties, and wore strict
      black, but that was all he could see in the murky dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an intangible aura of <em class="calibre8">oldness</em> about them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man moved forward and pushed the doorbell ringer, very
      patiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you <em class="calibre8">sure</em> that's how they work, Albus?" asked the
      woman, with a distinct Scottish accent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," intoned the bearded man, "I admit, I am not entirely
      well-versed with these things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it needs a minor blood sacrifice, like Heward's door,"
      the woman hummed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose it can't hurt to try," the man calmly said, pulling
      out a small knife. "Which finger do you prefer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just a minute - I think I have a blood pouch in here
      somewhere," the woman said, rummaging around in her pouch, "Merlin
      bless the man who invented <em class="calibre8">those</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr Dwimmersmith?" called out 'Albus', knocking on the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland traced a few metres back from where he was, and then very
      loudly walked up to the door, turning the knob and opening it, as
      if he'd only just heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus Dindledore and Minerva McGongallo?" he said, brutally
      stumbling over their names.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Lord, strike me down where I stand.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman gave an amused snort, and a flicker of a smile passed
      over the man's face. "Nearly, Mr Dwimmersmith, nearly. If it makes
      you feel any better, in panic, Kevin Entwhistle called her Mineta
      McGrangallow, and myself Albus Dippledoop. As a reminder, my name
      is Albus <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore</em>, Headmaster of Hogwarts, and this is
      Professor Minerva <em class="calibre8">McGonagall</em>, Deputy Headmistress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland reddened, although thankfully, the poor lighting made it
      difficult to see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," said Albus Dumbledore, his voice taking on a more serious
      tone, "where <em class="calibre8">are</em> your parents, young man?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oz hadn't been called 'young man' in about four years. He'd been
      called 'O Wise Leader of the Ten Thousand Stars', 'Saint
      Cunningham', or 'God-King', or whatever else Evelyn thought she
      could reasonably get people to call him when she had the leverage
      of being able to order their immediate executions. It was odd, all
      of a sudden, to be talked <em class="calibre8">down</em> to - still more for someone
      to <em class="calibre8">ask where his parents were</em> - but evidently these people
      hadn't done their research, or at least hadn't had the time to do
      their research. <em class="calibre8">It's absurdly refreshing to talk to someone who
      doesn't think I'm some kind of magical demigod.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused. "My parents passed away in a house fire," he said,
      slowly, "and I've been living independently since then with the
      help of the local church." He carefully avoided saying: <em class="calibre8">they
      were burned to death in a religious turf war, and the people who
      burned them made me their leader after I levitated a pen.</em>
      "Now, if you don't mind, I have a few questions I'd like answered -
      actually, no," he added, correcting himself, slightly hysterically,
      "that doesn't even <em class="calibre8">begin</em> to cover it - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore held up a hand. "No doubt. Allow me to provide a
      short explanation, and then we shall move on from here." Ozland
      felt the invasive sensation of someone rifling through filing
      cabinets, but somehow in his head. The man looked somewhat
      startled, and coughed. "Er, Minnie, would you . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Certainly," Professor McGonagall replied. "Mr Dwimmersmith -
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cunningham, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" - Mr Cunningham, then. Have you ever had anything inexplicable
      or extraordinary happen to you?" she went on. <em class="calibre8">She sounds like
      she's done this before</em>, Ozland noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," he answered, a little skeptically. "I once opened a tin
      of sardines, and there was another smaller tin of sardines inside,
      and inside <em class="calibre8">that</em> tin of sardines - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, I should be more specific. There is a phenomenon called
      accidental magic which occurs mostly in children experiencing
      strong emotions, although, in the absence of a formal magical
      education, some learn to exert a degree of control over their
      abilities. About one in, oh, thirty thousand people - if you don't
      count the Soviets - can do it. Witches and wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," Ozland said neutrally. "You'd think more people
      would know about that kind of thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, but we do have spells to selectively alter memory
      and perception, which makes it much easier to maintain strict
      information quarantine procedures from Muggle - that is to say,
      non-magical - society."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Although naturally," Dumbledore interjected, seeming to have
      been deep in thought up until that point, "we do have some limited
      interaction with Muggle corporations and governments - if I recall
      correctly, the Trans-Pacific Railway was constructed in cooperation
      with the Ministry of Magic and the People's Republic of China."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Ministry of Magic?" he probed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our government, or at least the administrative side of it,"
      Dumbledore said. He glanced at his watch. "We should be leaving to
      Diagon Alley to purchase your supplies about now, the rest of the
      explaining will have to be done along the way." He pointed his
      stick (<em class="calibre8">wand?</em>) at the pavement outside Ozland's house,
      murmured something, and a stream of water spurted out, pooling into
      a puddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on," Ozland said, following him out the door and into the
      night, "what's with the water? And where's it from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard seemed to be sprinkling some sort of powder into the
      water. "Puddlejumping. Unless you would prefer to Apparate twenty
      times in order to get to Diagon Alley instead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Telly-portation'," said Professor McGonagall, clearly
      satisfied at having found the right word. "I find the sensation to
      be fairly similar to being forced through a curly drinking straw.
      Oh, and the water?" Ozland nodded. "Honestly, Mr Cunningham - take
      your pick. Vapour in the atmosphere, the Atlantic Ocean, hydrogen
      and oxygen from the Sun, zero-point energy flatulations, M-space,
      condensation from the aetherial wind . . . to name a few of the
      ideas Filius's students have come up with. Although," she added,
      tapping her cheek and seeming to give the subject some
      consideration, "I'm rather partial to the aetherial wind
      model."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore leant down, almost kneeling, and tapped the centre of
      the puddle once with his wand. "Diagon Alley," he declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Ozland walked toward it, the puddle of water went from a
      dull, metallic glow to a brightness suggestive of daylight. It
      <em class="calibre8">should</em> have reflected the streetlamps, the crisscrossing
      power lines, and the twinkling stars in the night sky - but
      instead, it was as if a hole had been punched through the ground
      and all the way out the other side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Alright</em>, Ozland herded his thoughts together into
      something coherent, <em class="calibre8">time to do a reality check.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He counted the fingers on his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ten, okay.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pinched his nose and tried to breathe through it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He attempted to remember what he'd been doing in the twelve
      hours up until that point. <em class="calibre8">Denny's discussion, Rushabh dead,
      floating priest, negotiating with the Seventy-Sevens over the
      phone, notifying the Red Dragons, rereading the Book of Matchwell,
      I told Evelyn I needed some time to think, went to my old
      neighbourhood, then the owls with the letters, told Dom I wouldn't
      be available, took the photo of my 'parents' down to the police
      station for analysis</em> . . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm not dreaming</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Saint Matchwell, I'm not dreaming.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stared into the puddle. Tall buildings were visible - ones
      that didn't have the regularity of windowed skyscrapers. In fact,
      they looked like small suburban houses haphazardly stacked on top
      of one another, although that didn't make any sense - it wouldn't
      be structurally sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall cleared her throat in front of him,
      standing on the other side of the pool. "Shall I go first?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go?" echoed Ozland, standing up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She locked her arms together in a V-shape, and, without warning,
      after a small running distance, dove in, head-first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland was sorely tempted to do another reality check.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He peered into the puddle, and reared back when the woman's face
      appeared, looking up (<em class="calibre8">or down?</em>) at him. He couldn't make
      out what she was saying, but she was holding out a hand, as if
      urging him to grab onto it. Ozland tentatively dipped his finger
      into the water, and was instinctually surprised when, after passing
      through a thin layer of liquid, his hand came out the other
      side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grasped Professor McGonagall's hand (her grip was
      unexpectedly strong), and -</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">SIDE-SIDE-ALLEY 310A, SIDE-ALLEY 2B, DIAGON ALLEY, MAGICAL
      BRITAIN, LONDON</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where <em class="calibre8">are</em> we?" was the first question Ozland had,
      after stumbling about, totally disoriented, on the cobblestone
      street. He was also quite wet, and dripping water everywhere. He
      blinked, goggling at the second, red-tinted moon in the washed-out
      sky, and the strange, ring-shaped clouds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was next, springing out of the puddle with aplomb.
      After instantly drying himself off (somehow), he tapped his wand to
      the water, and it returned to a subdued mercury-grey colour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall pointed <em class="calibre8">her</em> wand at Ozland, and
      murmured something that sounded vaguely like "cucumber", and he
      detachedly observed as his clothes went from soaking wet to
      iron-dry in a few seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Around him were houses. The one closest to him looked like the
      brick frontage of a bungalow, with a letterbox and windows and a
      wooden door, but . . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another one on top of it, and another one on top of
      <em class="calibre8">that</em> one, and so on and so on about forty times. All of
      them were arranged in a semi-irregular brickwork pattern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The intimidating buildings loomed on both sides. He felt like a
      tiny bug, deep inside an urban crevasse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two to the left, and five houses up, was the door to a men's
      bathroom, and as Ozland stared, the door flung open, and a wizard
      walked out onto thin air, eating a mushroom kebab. The wizard
      swirled his wand, grumbled "ground floor, please," and slowly began
      to descend, with regular elevator-like <em class="calibre8">dings</em> marking his
      descent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Dumbledore said grandly, unfolding an enormous map, "we
      appear to be on Side-Side-Alley 310A, on Side-Alley 24B - of Diagon
      Alley, of course. Unfortunately, that <em class="calibre8">is</em> the main drawback
      to puddlejumping - you <em class="calibre8">will</em> end up roughly where you want
      to be, but where you want to <em class="calibre8">be</em> is not always the same as
      where a puddle <em class="calibre8">is</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland pointed up at the sky. "Er, I'm more concerned about
      <em class="calibre8">that</em>," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre8">that</em>. Why the concern?" Dumbledore asked,
      blandly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you know, <em class="calibre8">usually</em> there's only one moon in the
      sky, and it's white."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One moon, two moons, three moons, eight moons, no moons - what
      difference does it make?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're still on <em class="calibre8">Earth</em>, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose you could say <em class="calibre8">an</em> Earth," Dumbledore replied
      mysteriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can . . . can anyone give me a straight answer here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">An</em> Earth indeed," Professor McGonagall said, no less
      mysteriously, "but, at the same time, not exactly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A fragment torn from a parallel reality, anchored to an
      extradimensional pocket within London," Dumbledore explained,
      finally. "But we have more pressing concerns, such as navigating
      our way out of this side-side-alley. I suggest we take the three
      lefts after this corner and repeatedly loop around until we get to
      Gringotts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall seemed to take the suggestion seriously.
      "It usually works," she said, after Ozland gave her a disbelieving
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They began walking, and he began to ask a question, but realised
      he didn't really know <em class="calibre8">what</em> question to ask, because there
      were just so <em class="calibre8">many</em> reasonable ones like 'How is that
      supposed to work?' or 'Where's the red moon from?' or 'Who were my
      parents?' or 'What's Gringotts?' . . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's Gringotts?" asked Ozland, filing away the other
      questions for later. He felt like a child again, and not
      necessarily in a good way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A trustworthy bank," Professor McGonagall answered, dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh, good - something that makes</em> sense <em class="calibre8">for
      once.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">" - run by goblins. Unless you trust Malfoy, that disgusting
      financial shark." At his confusion, she added: "Lucius Malfoy, the
      right-hand man of You-Know-Who - ah, I suppose you don't know who
      You-Know-Who - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You-Know-Who was . . . a very powerful Dark wizard, who
      tyrannised magical Britain for about ten years," she elaborated,
      seeming to choke up in some parts. "It would be wise not to . . .
      mention him in polite conversation, Mr Dwim - Cunningham . . . the
      Death Eaters, they were his followers . . . many lives were lost in
      that war, Mr Cunningham. We're still recovering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry for bringing the subject up," Ozland said courteously
      - even though privately, he was wondering whether there were any
      sensible <em class="calibre8">rules</em> saying you couldn't start a civil war
      unless you had a name that didn't sound like a heavy metal band.
      "Are there any books which discuss the, er, era?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall nodded, a bit dispassionately. "About half
      of any bookstore, really. But as I was saying, Lucius Malfoy
      assisted You-Know-Who, and took possession of the Death Eaters' war
      fund after their demise and - well, he didn't start a <em class="calibre8">bank</em>
      per se, Gringotts has a legal monopoly on that - but because of all
      the looting and the shortage of coin, everyone was issuing debt
      notes - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Debt notes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She withdrew a rectangular piece of paper from her handbag and
      passed it to him. "They look like these - that's a Ministry
      debt-note, along the top you can see 'The Ministry Of Magic
      Promises To Pay The Bearer Of This Note One Sickle' message."
      Ozland examined the shimmering silver note, fascinated - the text
      swirled around in patterned eddies. "They had to issue those
      because the Ministry couldn't possibly pay all of the salaries
      during after raid in '75, and then they just started circulating
      about - even after the War finished, they kept printing them. Oh
      dear, I've strayed from the topic <em class="calibre8">twice</em> now, haven't I?"
      she paused, evidently trying to remember what Ozland's original
      question was. "In any case, Lucius Malfoy began issuing debt-notes,
      backed by the enormous war fund that the Death Eaters accumulated
      through years of murder, pillaging and extortion," she said,
      sourly, "so really, it's <em class="calibre8">him</em> or Gringotts. The man
      <em class="calibre8">loans</em> more Galleon <em class="calibre8">notes</em> than he has solid coin -
      and the goblins refuse to even <em class="calibre8">issue</em> loans - honestly,"
      she sighed, "it's such a bloody mess, whenever there's a new
      election to the Mysterium, Malfoy just prints out however much he
      needs to run the campaign - it's bleeding us dry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More notes than coin? <em class="calibre8">How</em> much more, exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore spoke. "About four thousand to one - but that is not
      yet public knowledge - and I would appreciate your discretion in
      <em class="calibre8">keeping</em> it that way, Mr Cunningham," he added, in a
      serious tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Forgive me for asking, but why not just cause a run on his
      bank?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard and the witch looked at one another. "That would be
      exceedingly unwise, and the ensuing chaos and ruin . . . "
      Dumbledore trailed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As much as I hate to say it," Professor McGonagall said
      distastefully, "well, I'm no <em class="calibre8">expert</em> in economancy, but
      Lucius's '<em class="calibre8">loan-issuance</em> service' <em class="calibre8">has</em> been fairly
      instrumental in bouncing back from the destruction of the War, and
      encouraging everyone to force him to cough up would likely be
      utterly disastrous. It's another area where he has . . .
      significant leverage - although Albus's faction <em class="calibre8">has</em>
      successfully blocked the Bill to remove the trimetal standard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While they talked more, Ozland noted that, even though they'd
      been going around and around in a loop, with each pass, fewer and
      fewer of the buildings were residential, and more and more people
      were out and about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, so about my parents," Ozland awkwardly changed the topic,
      "could either of you tell me a bit more about them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know little more than is available in public records,"
      Dumbledore said, "but your mother, Astrava Curresbreaker, graduated
      from Durmstrang and worked in the Department of Warding and
      Dimensional Expansions before marrying your father, Gelder
      Dwimmersmith, the last heir of the Dwimmersmith line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, so he was rich?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dwimmersmiths owned a number of Atlantic leylines,"
      Dumbledore replied elusively, "and accumulated enormous wealth and
      power - leylines were once necessary to power wards and
      Artifactures, but they were largely superseded in the thirties by
      turnstones, elemental fields, and the Cup of Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So not that rich anymore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I wouldn't be so - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five Sickles, and a Knut."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely there must be a mistake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were standing at a reception table, and just a moment ago,
      the goblin had pushed over five silver coins and a bronze coin, and
      then aloofly folded its arms, as if the matter had been
      settled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gringotts does not make mistakes, young wizard," it
      enunciated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely there are the deeds to the Atlantic leylines, or
      whatever they're called?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The goblin consulted a long roll of parchment. "Atlantic
      leylines A103, A104, A106, and B551, were liquidated from 1984 to
      1993 to accommodate the annual vault fee, and have since been sold
      to ThauLeylines - A Subsidiary Of ThauCorp."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on," Ozland said turning to Dumbledore, "does that mean .
      . . ?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unfortunately yes," Dumbledore said quietly. "Minerva and I
      will pay for your supplies and your tuition, unless . . . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh come on, there's no need to trail off like that just to
      build up dramatic tension</em>, Ozland felt like saying.
      "Unless?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr Cunningham, in the interest of candidness, when we first met
      eye-to-eye, I suspected that your story, if not a falsification,
      was at the very least purposefully incomplete. I used a technique
      called Legilimency to assuage my suspicions, which involved a brief
      mental intrusion. It was a grave violation of your privacy, and for
      that I apologise." Dumbledore adjusted his half-moon glasses and
      sighed tiredly. "May I ask for your permission to divulge some
      pertinent aspects of your home situation to Minerva?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded vaguely, still thinking over the implications of what
      Dumbledore had loosely implied, was a form of mind-reading.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore spoke to Professor McGonagall. "Mr Cunningham's
      latent, semi-controlled accidental magic was co-opted by a local
      Muggle religion - perhaps it would be more accurate to describe it
      as a sovereign nation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Co-opted?" Her face was impassive, from which Ozland was able
      to infer that she was more disturbed by the revelation than she was
      interested in letting on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At the outset, yes. I wasn't able to glean much, perhaps Ozland
      can expand on my remarks, but he quite rapidly rose through the
      ranks, so to speak, in part due to the daughter of the founder of
      the religion, and a Muggle-drug manufacturer who forced the
      cooperation of the criminal syndicates in the area by threatening
      to detonate a nuclear weapon - and, as far as I was able to
      discern, his tactfulness and strategic mindset."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you saying, Albus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland had caught on almost immediately. "He's implying, in a
      roundabout way, that I probably actually have the funds to - wait,"
      he looked at the goblin, who had been listening with mild interest,
      "do you do currency conversion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," the goblin replied, as if it were an utterly stupid
      question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He dug into the pockets of his jacket, and pulled out a handful
      of undollars - banknotes printed by the Unorthodox Church. They
      looked like crumpled red bus tickets. He had, in total, about a
      thousand undollars with him. "I don't suppose you'd be able to
      convert these into, er, Galleons?" he said, putting all of them on
      the counter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wordlessly, the goblin gathered all of the notes, placing them
      under a brass microscope-like device, with the word
      'VALOROEXTRACTOR' printed in tidy block capitals on its base. The
      goblin adjusted the dials, and all of a sudden, there was a
      blindingly bright light. Very carefully, the goblin picked up a
      pair of golden tweezers, and took to the undollar notes with a look
      of concentration on its face, eventually extracting a transparent,
      yellowish, gossamer . . . <em class="calibre8">something</em>, that looked like the
      bastard child of a jellyfish and a handkerchief, teasing and
      peeling it apart from the paper, and eventually placing it on a set
      of scales with the word 'VALOROSCALE'. The goblin referred to the
      scales for a moment, and then -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nineteen Galleons, twelve Sickles, and five Knuts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh," Ozland said, "what just happened there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I extracted and weighed the value," the goblin explained,
      slowly, "and gave the figure in terms of wizarding currency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Of all the things I've seen today . . .</em> And then a
      thought occurred to him. "I need a piece of paper. And a pen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore tugged at the air, producing a small scrap of paper
      and a ballpoint, silently passing them to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neatly, Ozland began writing. <em class="calibre8">I, Ozland Cunningham, certify
      that the bearer of this note will, upon contacting the Ministry of
      Transport of the Celestial Unorthodox Church, have exclusive access
      to the South Auckland motorway from 3am to 4am from January 1996 to
      April 1996.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He signed the paper with a flourish, passed over the note to the
      goblin, who went through the entire process again, and then,
      seemingly impressed, read out: "Two thousand four hundred and
      ninety-six Galleons, fifteen Sickles, and twenty-one Knuts. Would
      you like to cash that in, Mr Dwimmersmith?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Ozland said immediately. "Is there any way I could
      <em class="calibre8">purchase</em> a valoroextractor and a, uh, valoroscale?" he
      added quickly before the goblin left to get the money.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall winced, and the goblin's expression went
      cold. "It was goblinkind that crafted these instruments, and
      Gringotts that owns them. They are not available to 'purchase'.
      Were you to come into possession of them through more illicit
      means," it almost sneered, "they would be quite useless to you,
      without adequate knowledge of the delicate magics behind their
      operation. Have an excellent day," the goblin ended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland grimaced, looking to Professor McGonagall and Dumbledore
      in turn. "Did I just commit a really <em class="calibre8">bad</em> faux pas? Also
      how much is two thousand Galleons really worth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, and a lot, were the answers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their next stop was Ollivanders, a wand store.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland and Ollivander passed through rows of dusty boxes stacked
      too high to be comfortable standing between, and reached the back,
      whereupon Ollivander opened a door, revealing an endless
      forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hadn't expected that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Allow me to explain, Mr Dwimmersmith," Ollivander said, kindly.
      "Diagon Alley is contained within a pocket, I suppose you could
      say, of nonlocal space-time - space-time torn from another
      'universe' - Chief Warlock Albus Dumbledore, the man you came in
      with, was, in fact, the one who did it - <em class="calibre8">wedged</em> very
      delicately inside local space-time, like tearing a hole inside
      white bread and putting a chunk of cheese inside - my apologies, Mr
      Dwimmersmith, I haven't had lunch yet and my mind is naturally
      drifting towards . . . anyway, now, when you try and create a
      dimensional expansion <em class="calibre8">within</em> a pocket such as Diagon
      Alley, there's nothing to expand <em class="calibre8">into</em>, per se - if I were
      to go through the appropriate ritual right now - the Ministry
      regulates that very heavily, by the way, Mr Dwimmersmith, so don't
      get any ideas - since the back of this store is <em class="calibre8">right</em> at
      the edge of the pocket, hence the buzzing noise you're hearing
      right now, there would just be blank white space. Nothingness.
      <em class="calibre8">But</em>, through careful experimentation - oh, most of it must
      have been in the late seventies and early eighties - we found that
      if you <em class="calibre8">leave</em> something inside that white space, it acts as
      a <em class="calibre8">seed</em> in a way, and nobody is really sure how it works.
      Someone accidentally left a grocery basket in a blankspace once,
      and it turned into an infinitely-large, self-restocking
      supermarket, so it wasn't <em class="calibre8">all</em> eldritch abominations - aha,
      not that there <em class="calibre8">were</em> any eldritch abominations produced
      necessarily - or, I suppose, not that there <em class="calibre8">weren't</em> any
      eldritch abominations - but I digress, the records are sealed, and
      I've said too much already, young man. So, this forest - this
      forest was the product of the days before Ministry regulation, I'd
      just about had enough with making wands all day long, you wouldn't
      believe how tedious it is, so I had this lovely blankspace, yes? I
      threw a handful of wands in there, and called it a night. Ah, I see
      you're beginning to understand now. Yes, those <em class="calibre8">are</em> what we
      might call 'wand-trees', that's exactly what people call them.
      Muggle-raised? I can tell by your ghastly clothes, no offense
      intended. You must have a natural intuition. But I digress once
      more - it's very simple. Just put on the belt, clip the spool to it
      - so you don't get lost, that forest really is infinitely large, Mr
      Dwimmersmith - then put on this blindfold and when you bump into a
      tree, just give the rope four short tugs and I'll be right along.
      Even if it's been a full ten minutes of a walking, an hour, two
      hours, or so on, don't stop until you bump into a tree. And if you
      hear any animal noises or footsteps, don't worry - the Weasley
      twins left a few invisible everlasting flying cassette players when
      they last came, and I haven't been able to find all of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The forest canopy was thick enough for the sky to be completely
      occluded, but nevertheless, the forest was well-lit with an
      indistinct greenish glow. There was a conspicuous lack of leaves on
      the ground, which made the area look like a creepily
      well-maintained lawn. "Right, let's do this," said Ozland.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A quarter of an hour later, Ozland was completely fucking
      terrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd thought it would be easy enough after the first minute of
      walking forward with no eyesight in an environment that he knew had
      solid obstacles everywhere, listening only to the sounds of his own
      footsteps (and, occasionally other, very quiet footsteps).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But no, it really, really didn't get any easier, especially
      since he knew he'd bump into a tree anytime now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sound of a macaw, and then a squealing pig, echoed in the
      distance, and he shivered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd been trying to think about the valoroscale. What if he'd
      written '<em class="calibre8">The Celestial Unorthodox Church will give, to the
      bearer of this note, one ounce of gold on May 15, 1996</em>' - was
      the valoroscope somehow prescient, or only giving a best estimate?
      Probably the second, because otherwise they wouldn't be used on
      Gringotts counters, because Gringotts would be ruling the world
      rather than levying fees for standing in one place for too long.
      Was it a probability-weighted average value or the most likely
      value? Where did the knowledge for its best estimate come from? He
      supposed he could find out by writing '<em class="calibre8">The C.U.C will give, to
      the bearer of this note, ten Sickles - if, and only if, President
      Labar wins Chihuahua in the next election</em>' - if it was 'zero'
      or 'ten Sickles', it would be 'most likely value', and if it was
      'two Sickles and eleven Knuts', it would be an averaged value - and
      it would also indicate that the valoroscope didn't really have
      precise advanced knowledge of future events. If it was zero or ten
      Sickles, he still wouldn't really know - and, afterall, it wouldn't
      be too easy to distinguish between being <em class="calibre8">really</em> good at
      extrapolating the future versus actually knowing it. Unless,
      perhaps, there was a way to set up a totally random binary event,
      one that was completely disconnected from prior -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a loud clunk as Ozland's blindfolded head connected
      with the trunk of a tree. He dutifully tugged at the rope four
      times and took off the blindfold. "There has to be a better way to
      do this," he groaned, before returning to his original train of
      thought, sitting down at the base of the tree. <em class="calibre8">Alright, future
      knowledge aside, how else could I use a valoroscope?</em> There
      wasn't really much else he could think of, aside from the obvious
      thing which it had been built for. <em class="calibre8">Assessing mineral resources
      over areas of land? The contents of safes? Discerning between real
      and fake diamonds?</em> Evaluating insurance contracts, patents,
      corporate shares, and yet-to-be released books would probably fall
      under 'future knowledge'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ollivander was along quickly enough. "This one, eh?" he brought
      out a small chiseling tool, breaking off a fragment of the wood and
      holding it up to his left eyepiece. "Walnut and dittany stalk, an
      interesting combination, I suppose. Walnut often has an affinity
      for, well, people who <em class="calibre8">push beyond</em>, shall we say.
      Spellcrafting, rituals, dimensional arithmancy. Dittany stalk, on
      the other hand, is really for people more inclined towards
      Divination. An interesting combination indeed - Reginald Rookwood's
      wand was walnut and dittany."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that a famous person?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only the ritualist who inadvertently created the Cup of Magic
      and altered the course of magical society forever to come, Mr
      Dwimmersmith. Not that that would be a very sensible thing to aim
      towards. In any case," he said, changing the topic, "how many wands
      do you want? Ten Sickles each, and in all likelihood, you won't be
      able to find this tree again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many Sickles to the Galleon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seventeen," Ollivander replied crisply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A thousand undollars is about twenty Galleons is about four
      hundred Sickles, is forty wands. A thousand divided by forty is
      twenty-five undollars a wand - shit, that's about the price of an
      ice cream</em>. He grinned. "Alright, I'll take thirty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only thirty?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Only thirty? Really?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">At Ozland's confused look, he added: "The Cup has more than
      enough output to sustain a human Transfiguration for all of
      eternity - Albus is in his twelfth decade, and Minerva turned sixty
      this year - surely you noticed that they . . . ?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'<em class="calibre8">Only thirty?' is only a sensible question if you're either
      overly cautious, or if you expect to live for a very long
      time</em>, he realised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me," he said, weakly, "how long does a wand last on
      average, and how many wands do wizards usually buy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thirty years, if they're kept in good condition - twenty years
      if they're not, and of course they <em class="calibre8">are</em> pieces of wood, and
      just as liable to break. And to answer your second question, about
      a hundred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wizards expect to live for about two thousand
      years?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't let him talk you into anything silly like buying a
      hundred wands, did you?" Professor McGonagall asked wearily,
      looking at the enormous box Ozland had tucked under his arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland groaned. "It seemed sensible at the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head. "It always does."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was busy talking to a translucent, silver dog. "Lord
      Speengrack, I can assure you that Augusta will be very amenable
      towards your amendment to the ink importation proposal - Minerva
      and I happen to be with a student at the moment, so we'll have to
      put this discussion on hold for the time being."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," said the dog in a deep, gruff voice, before
      disappearing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," said Dumbledore, clapping his hands. "Onwards we
      march." Ozland silently filed the translucent dog under 'questions
      to ask some time later but not now', as they walked out the door of
      Ollivanders and stopped in the middle of the street. "Onwards we
      march - or rather, onwards <em class="calibre8">you</em> march, Mr Cunningham -
      Minerva and I have urgent business at Hogwarts, Mrs Weasley will
      help you pick up the rest of your supplies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As a matter of fact," Dumbledore continued, glancing at his
      watch (which, Ozland had noticed by this point, didn't have any
      hands), "the Weasley door should be just around the next corner if
      we catch it now, but we'll have to be quick about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They cut a brutal diagonal through the foot traffic and came to
      a tall edifice that was entirely covered in doors. Dumbledore and
      Professor McGonagall didn't seem to be off-put by the lack of
      stairs, and instead walked forward to stand on a welcome mat in
      front of one of the door-columns. They looked at him expectantly,
      and he respectfully complied with what was bound to be the latest
      episode of madness in magical Britain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore twirled his wand. "Weasley family residence," he
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All of a sudden, jazzy elevator music began to play, and the
      welcome mat began ascending into the air with a whoosh. Each ding
      brought them one door higher. Ozland counted the dings, growing
      more and more apprehensive as the sounds from the street below grew
      more distant, and as the sound of the rushing wind grew louder,
      counting ten, then twenty, then fifty, before the welcome mat
      finally stopped at the seventy-fourth ding, floating up and down
      unsteadily - and it still wasn't at the very top. The scarlet door
      they had stopped at had, strangely enough, had the Volkswagen logo
      etched onto the front, with 'Weasley Motors' in gold letters just
      underneath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto patronum</em>," Dumbledore murmured. An enormous
      silvery bird appeared, and Ozland almost stumbled off the welcome
      mat, and probably would have fallen to his death, had Professor
      McGonagall not put a steadying hand on his shoulder. "Tell Molly
      that we're here with Ozland." The bird nodded and swooped off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . two questions, what was <em class="calibre8">that</em>, and what's the
      Volkswagen logo doing on the door?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall seemed to have gotten the hang of answering
      questions without creating more. "A messenger spell, and that would
      be the symbol for Weasley Motors, who make flying automobiles -
      it's on all of their cars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door clicked open. Ozland was all too eager to get off the
      floating welcome mat, and was surprised to find himself standing on
      grass. He looked back at where he'd come from, and was even more
      surprised to find that they'd come out the door of what appeared to
      be an outhouse, that the sky above them didn't have <em class="calibre8">any</em>
      moons, that they were standing in a wide open space, and that in
      front of him was were what, he could only presume, were three
      houses trying to make baby-houses with one another, who, in the
      throes of brickwork passion, had become permanently wedged together
      into a six-story-high architectural monstrosity. The red-haired
      woman speed-walking towards them could only be -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Mrs Weasley, how good to see you again!" rumbled
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is <em class="calibre8">this</em> the handsome young fellow picking up his
      supplies for Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," said Dumbledore, his eyes twinkling, "Minerva and I
      have urgent business at Hogwarts, unfortunately - Hagrid was a
      little unvigilant with his florkpurfle nest, and they'll be a few
      hours away from reaching the Type Three superintelligence stage . .
      . "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs Weasley nodded sympathetically. "Don't you worry a thing,
      Albus. I'll just need to drag the children out shopping - oh,
      Ozland, why don't you come along?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Ozland was still craning his neck to look for a moon.
      <em class="calibre8">Might as well ask now.</em> "Er, why's there no Moon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We had to move from Ottery St Catchpole during the War," Mrs
      Weasley said, slightly stiffly, "there wasn't enough time to find a
      universe-fragment with a moon in it. Anyway," she brightened, "take
      care of yourselves, Albus, Minerva." They nodded, and disappeared
      in a puff of displaced air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned back to Ozland. "Want some lunch before we head
      out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Early court documents as interpreted by Hölmstrom et al.
      indicate that the <em class="calibre8">Zauberkanzler</em> of the Duchy of Bavaria
      (essentially equivalent to the Great Enchanter of Britain) formed
      the early underground society named the 'Illuminati', lead by
      <em class="calibre8">Hauptberater</em> ('Chief Advisor' Wilhelm Eldrich Illuminati)
      on 1 May, 1776, the members of which primarily consisted of
      Wizards, formally opposing Muggle superstition and religious
      influence. Informally, the aim of the Illuminati was to fool
      Muggles into a system of Enlightenment beliefs known as
      'rationality', such that they would be less likely to attempt
      witch-hunts and dismiss evidence of the existence of Magic as
      'irrational'…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- Julipe H. Patrégon — <em class="calibre8">Superstition in 18th Century European
      Society: Wizarding-Muggle Relations</em> (1981, [abbrev.] —
      Mopfthord Acad. Press)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">NIGHT, AUGUST 24, 1995, LONG ISLAND ROAD, MONGOL TERRITORY,
      AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A balding man with a blue vein running down the side of his face
      dozed, asleep on an armchair on a balcony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Distantly, crickets chirped and waves crashed along the
      beach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A yellow lantern swung, hanging from the banister, making
      shadows dance in the darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All of a sudden, very quietly, two hooded figures wearing
      necklaces popped into existence on the balcony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sleeping man snorted, turned to one side, and awoke with a
      start, fumbling around for his gun and squinting. He took in the
      balcony around him, scrutinising every corner, not seeing the
      hooded figures for some strange reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Somnium</em>," whispered one of the figures, taller than
      the other, with a lock of blonde hair poking out the side of his
      hood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A slight glimmer struck the man in the chest. The man slumped
      over as the light hit him, forced into a stupor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, Gil," said the shorter figure, in a low, measured
      voice, "do your thing, I'll handle his bones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the low light, the other figure flashed a grin. He had
      dazzling white teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#####</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
