<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem - The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem Chapter 6: Ch6 – A Painting Inside A Painting, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Universe Is An Optimisation Problem"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: A Painting Inside A Painting</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">A/N: It's been almost two months since I published the
      last chapter. Life caught up and I realised my schedule of one
      chapter every two weeks was much too ambitious. I took some time
      off to plan out the rest of the story.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">To recap, Ozland has just been in Dumbledore's office
      after bidding the Weasleys adieu, undergone the
      very-cleverly-written Ritual of the Time Cube, and woken up back in
      New Zealand.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong><br class="calibre4"/>
      CHAPTER SIX<br class="calibre4"/>
      <strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">[...]</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I cannot abide by your superstition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WIZARD:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then I must repeat to you once more, our craft is ineffable,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And moreover not intended to be understood by man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All is within the grasp of man! I have confidence that</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In time man shall puncture the very firmament of the heavens</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And violate the kingdom of God Himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WIZARD:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Such ambitions have been shared by cities whose names</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now read on tombstones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet we are not a city, we are a civilisation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WIZARD:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And as a city is to a civilisation, so will be past
      catastrophes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To the catastrophe that will inevitably result!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This magic, it resists scientific experimentation so?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WIZARD:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tell me of what you mean by that term</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which rings so strangely to my ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is to find within the turmoil of the universe</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An underlying order; to lay bare the structure of</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The celestial storm that surrounds us. It is</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To find Newton in the path of Neptune,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Darwin in the Galapagos, and Marx in market capitalism.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is to discern the nature of the cosmos and its atoms,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The arrangement of matter which gives rise to higher forms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WIZARD:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I am afraid, dear General Secretary, that you shall find</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That there is no underlying order to be found. That the</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inscrutability of wizardry will bring you to new heights</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of madness and frustration, as it has done to many before
      you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Many have, of course, discovered arcane principles which</p>
      <p class="calibre6">May be applied by practitioners of the craft, but I think</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That you shall find that the low-hanging fruit have already</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Been plucked, and that, in attempting to reach higher,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You may have an accident with your ladder and hurt yourself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then it is not only gold you ask for, but the suspension</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of our innate curiosity? A heavy price indeed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WIZARD:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To sate one's curiosity before the well-beings of one's
      countrymen</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Is perhaps a selfish and treacherous venture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is for <em class="calibre8">their</em> sakes that I wonder, not out of any
      selfish vice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WIZARD:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wonder?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The basis of our socialist system is the perfection</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of industrial techniques. To fully understand the principles</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which underlie the steam engine and the spinning loom</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Is an important thing indeed. Without an understanding,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How can we perfect? Bereft of understanding, we would be</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Condemned to see ourselves stagnate and stumble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We cannot build communism through stumbling, hence</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My concern over the implications of this supernatural
      marvel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But more still, it would undermine the faith of every Soviet
      citizen</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the certitude of scientific fact, cast doubt on what
      mankind</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Has so-far illuminated. What, say, of the principles</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of electromagnetism given the existence of <em class="calibre8">Lumos</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What of the conservation of matter, given the existence of</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A simple water-making Charm? Surely you can see how</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Such a revelation would dampen the spirit of progress</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And open the floodgates of religious reactionism!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WIZARD:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then I must suggest, if the possibility has not</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Already occurred to you, to walk on two feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Please elaborate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">WIZARD:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While magic will make every burden lighter by a
      thousandfold,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Your Muggle sciences will attempt to lighten every burden</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Using reason rather than received lore. Eventually,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Should the words you have spoken to me be true,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A transition would begin, in which magic would be supplanted</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By superior technological advances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">STALIN:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I must discuss it with Molotov.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">[...]</p>
      <p class="calibre6">– Belarusian University of the Arts play entitled 'Stalin's
      Dilemma' (performed 1986, translated by Yazhk [Dogthinker, Class
      III])</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Imitative and unnecessarily florid. The heavy hand of
      Gosteleradio and Bolshoy's Dogthinkers have clearly dealt us
      another propaganda play." –
      <strong class="calibre7">radioyerevananswers885</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Angelika Savelievna's performance as Stalin was inspired." –
      <strong class="calibre7">Martsin Aleksiutovič, steel-worker, associate professor of
      sociology at the B.U.A</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"[...] an exploration of a collision between dialectical
      materialism and the seemingly-insurmountable ideological challenge
      of magic that proved utterly tantalising." – <strong class="calibre7">Critic,
      Dogthinker [Class V]</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If this gets adapted into film, I would be happy to consult." –
      <strong class="calibre7">Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin [</strong><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">VERIFIED
      USER</strong></em><strong class="calibre7">]</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">THE SAME DAY – GORDON COATES MEMORIAL PARK, TERRITORY OF THE
      CELESTIAN UNORTHODOX CHURCH, AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Well I'm sorry, Oz, since I've been trying to fucking reach
      you for the last five hours to tell you someone leaked Rushabh's
      suicide to the press before we could set up the official story and
      that, in accordance with time-honoured tradition, his fucking
      Unsealing Ceremony, you know, the one where they read out his
      successor for the position of Jupiter-Minister of the whole of New
      Zealand, is happening in Gordon Coates in twenty minutes and we're
      on the fucking guest-list."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Oh," said Ozland.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Yes," said Evelyn. "I thought you might say something like
      that."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something felt wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The procession was small and formal and held on the flat top of
      a hill overlooking a garden of flowers. A squat, marbly-coloured
      box could be found where an open casket would have been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A man in factory-blue overalls went around, solemnly offering
      everyone a scoop of black ice-cream in memory of the recently
      departed, courtesy of Tip Top Ltd. Evelyn didn't know what flavour
      it would be. She suspected it would either be licorice or charcoal,
      and so politely declined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she and Ozland walked through the concentric semicircles to
      take their seats, the apprehensive voices became a low, subdued
      murmur like a pot being taken off a stovetop, going from boiling to
      simmering. There was a note of tension in the air. The CEO of Tip
      Top glanced at her, and when she turned to look back at him, he was
      staring resolutely forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she sat, Ozland began shaking hands with people. He went from
      Wu Xilai, Commissar of External Affairs of the Red Dragons, to some
      high-ranking Nisango member to Henry van Nanseer, a
      mysterious-looking ThauCorp exec, all sitting in the innermost row.
      His handshake, Evelyn noted, could do with a little more work, but
      it seemed to have an almost hypnotic effect. The semicircles were
      divided down the middle by a black carpet, and after Ozland had
      finished shaking hands with everyone in the innermost row, he
      ambled down the carpet, briefly touching the nearest chair of each
      row. The tension began to unravel. The world exhaled. Everything
      was going to be alright.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(It was par for the course for semi-public gatherings like
      these, but Evelyn was slightly embarrassed to see a few people in
      the outermost rows attempt to discreetly touch their fingers to
      Ozland's cloak, as if divinity brushed off.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he came back, and sat in the seat, and everything was
      completely silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone from the middle-row, probably the Mars-Minister of
      Rituals, rose and brought himself to the centre of the
      congregation. The Rituals Minister cleared his throat, a small,
      bleating noise, and began. "I stand before all of you in a special
      position, both as the executor to Rushabh's Celestian Will, and
      as," he said, too proudly for Evelyn's taste, "the Mars-Minister of
      Rituals for the North Shore City Region." He went on, listing
      trivial, unimportant things, stroking his beard
      self-importantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, this is it, isn't it?" It was a question, but Ozland had
      said it flatly – not that there was much intonative nuance you
      could put into a whisper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Chin up, Oz. You're about to make it big-time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Rushabh <em class="calibre8">might've</em> passed the Jupiter-Ministership
      onto <em class="calibre8">you</em>," Ozland replied glassily. <em class="calibre8">That
      stings.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just in case your absinthe-induced nostalgia-fog is preventing
      you from remembering things properly, he was off his damn nut," she
      shot back. "He <em class="calibre8">might've</em> passed it onto Kev. Or the
      Minister of Justice. Or some woman who did his fucking dry-cleaning
      back in '85."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wouldn't've."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course he <em class="calibre8">would not have</em>," Evelyn made sure to
      enunciate each of the words individually, "he almost started a
      second game of nuclear chicken with the Church just to get you your
      General Affairs Ministership, so was there any <em class="calibre8">point</em> to
      you saying <em class="calibre8">I</em> might be the next Jupiter-Minister or did you
      just say that to be a hungover asshole?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't mean it that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how <em class="calibre8">did</em> you mean it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He apparently couldn't think of anything to say to that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evelyn sat back, satisfied, while the Minister of Rituals droned
      onward. She glared at him, tapping her watch suggestively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister cut off into a strangled silence. "– er, and he did
      many good things later on in his life, I'm sure. Rushabh came to
      New Zealand from Indonesia as a nuclear technician and departed our
      world as a cherished, senior figure in the Church, and other things
      along those lines, et cetera, et cetera. I wouldn't want to, er,
      <em class="calibre8">detain</em> such an esteemed congregation for longer than
      necessary, so I'll get to the Unsealing, shall I?" he laughed
      nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone brought out their earmuffs during a long, uncomfortable
      time in which the Rituals Minister took to the box with a
      gargantuan half-chisel half-hammer. <em class="calibre8">There</em> has <em class="calibre8">to be a
      more effective way to seal a Celestian Will, other than putting it
      in a box.</em> An intemperate elderly gentleman four seats to her
      left looked as if he were about to stand up indignantly and leave
      the Unsealing, but evidently decided it would be too awkward. His
      moustache jerked about on his face like an angry burlesque
      dancer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman sitting to her right, the wife of the Chief Financial
      Officer of the Mongol Private Defense Corporation, slouched,
      fanning herself. "How long do these usually take?" she asked Evelyn
      in a loud drawl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Depends," Evelyn replied, having already decided that she
      disliked the woman's attitude, which she had evaluated separately
      from her being a 77-Church-following God-damned heathen whore bitch
      gold-digger who would inevitably be vaporized by the Celestians
      when the End Times came. "It's a hyper-regular metalloid
      nanocrystalline case from ThauCorp's labs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell is that supposed to mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Means it doesn't melt or buckle or warp, it shatters. All of
      the ridges, faults, and stress-lines from the . . . tool," she was
      on a fucking streak of knowledgeability and if she didn't know what
      the half-hammer half-chisel thing was called, it was its own fault
      for being so damn obscure, "nothing happens for a while, maybe a
      minute, two, five, ten, twenty – and then suddenly it bursts into
      little pieces like glass."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Mignani had smoothly transitioned from obliviously gazing
      at the box to watching it in terror, jerking involuntarily with
      every hammer-chisel blow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are some extra seats near the back," said Evelyn kindly.
      "And everyone's already seen you sitting in the front so it won't
      be a status blow or anything if you're worried about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She huffed. It was a remarkably articulate huff. It was a huff
      that declared 'I'm so high status I don't even have to worry about
      status'. The heathen-woman picked up her handbag and left soon
      after.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evelyn smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was when the box shattered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">##</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, it's the big day, huh?" Henry van Nanseer was almost
      jubilant as they shook hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No idea what you mean," Ozland said, crisply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The exec snorted. "The demented old fuck is dead, and we all
      know he favoured you as his successor. Drop the faux
      obliviousness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll thank you," he spoke in a low voice, "not to refer to the
      former Jupiter-Minister of the Celestian Unorthodox Church as a
      'demented old fuck'. Rushabh was a mentor of mine, and I was very
      close to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Van Nanseer winked, but as Ozland held his cold glare, his face
      quickly fell blank. "My comments were inappropriate and uncalled
      for," he rattled off, "as a representative of ThauCorp's many New
      Zealand-based subsidiaries, I apologise wholly and unreservedly. We
      hope to keep doing business with the new regime." The exec paused,
      and then reached into his jacket. He took out a card and handed it
      to Ozland. "Could I give you my business card so we can keep in
      touch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland held the card in his hand. It was cream-coloured with
      golden edges. He glanced back at Evelyn, who was busy dealing with
      an obnoxious Dragon-affiliated reporter, talking smoothly while
      making the 'please deal with this person' code-sign behind her
      back. Eventually an unsympathetic-looking pair of guards gently
      lead the reporter away. That Rushabh had killed himself was both
      good and bad: good in that foul-play wouldn't be suspected, and bad
      in that it wouldn't cast the upper echelons of the Celestian Church
      in a very favourable light. <em class="calibre8">Evelyn must be pissed. I wonder how
      it got out?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm afraid not." He flicked the card into the grass.
      Another moment of concentration, and it erupted into flames. It was
      good to remind people sometimes. Leaving an open-mouthed Henry van
      Nanseer behind him, he exchanged bland pleasantries with diplomats,
      statespeople, weapons dealers, gang leaders, ice cream execs, and
      donors, who all became a steady blur of suits and expensive
      watches. It barely required any thought at all, no more than
      walking or breathing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It gave him some time to think, to push the dreadful unreality
      that was Hogwarts out of his mind. He'd maintained that wonderful
      illusion for a few minutes, thinking that maybe he could maintain
      his tenuous sanity by pretending it had all been a dream, before
      he'd rushed back indoors after Evelyn had hurled abuse at him,
      looking for his formal wear. In doing so, he discovered a
      merlot-red satchel, filled with all of his wands and all of his
      textbooks, left with a little note from Dumbledore whose exact
      wording he couldn't remember now. It was a potent reminder that
      nothing could ever be the way it had been before. In the early
      morning, there had been Rushabh's suicide. In the late morning, the
      defector-priest began floating around and recounting his
      alien-abduction story. And then, of course, in the evening, the
      owls had delivered him the letters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You should be crying, or something</em>, said an insistent
      voice in his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I don't really feel any need to cry.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So you don't feel sad that Rushabh died?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thought occurred to him that no, he didn't. The thought
      bounced around inside his skull, becoming more and more hysterical.
      He didn't feel sad, or bad, or anything. He hadn't been drinking
      last night. In fact, up until he'd woken up at his house, he'd
      completely forgotten about Rushabh. Was that normal?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe the naive eight-year-old Ozland still believed Rushabh's
      soul had been absorbed into the Collective Unconscious and that he
      hadn't died at all, that all he would have to do would be to wait
      for the Celestians to transport the followers of the Church to
      Planet Celestia and then Rushabh would be there, wondering what
      took him so damn long and would he go fetch another beer from the
      fridge?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A hush descended, and the Mars-Minister of Rituals came up to
      the front to deliver his speech. He could sense the oppressive,
      titanic weight of inevitability bearing down on him. He felt
      utterly powerless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So this is it, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">##</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Rituals Minister brought out a long scroll. A beat of
      hesitation before –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Evelyn Rawter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what's on the paper," the Minister's face was gray and
      slightly sickly. "Evelyn Catherine Matchwell Rawter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hadn't prepared for this, not at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland looked merely perplexed, but kept clenching and
      unclenching his jaw in a way that suggested to Evelyn that the
      proclamation had rattled him deeply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It occurred to her that everyone was staring in her direction.
      <em class="calibre8">Say something, dammit!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stood up. "This is highly irregular, but I will ensure that
      the succession proceeds smoothly and with minimal disruption."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps the words had flown out of her mouth a little too
      effortlessly. Ozland glanced up at her suspiciously, he probably
      suspected it was planned. But there wasn't anything wrong with
      preparedness, was there?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the realisation struck her with full force. <em class="calibre8">I'm the
      Jupiter-Minister.</em> She had to repeat it a few times like an
      affirmation, otherwise she wouldn't believe it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evelyn looked around. It felt as if there was some other thing,
      some other element that would be needed to complete –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assent to and fully support Miss Rawter's ascension to the
      Jupiter-Ministership," said Ozland glibly. "Rushabh's choice was
      unexpected, but I am relieved to see that the stewardship of the
      New Zealand division of the Celestian Unorthodox Church has been
      placed in capable hands. I will not contest the Ministership at
      this point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Astonished silence turned into a hubbub of frenzied discussion.
      Cameras flashed from the back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ozland, you're a goddamned idiot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">At this point?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," he said, "at this point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Evelyn rubbed her eyes, sitting down. "This is a fucking mess.
      You read the crowd right – they wanted something from you, but the
      way you did it suggests a whole equal-power dynamic. And then you
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> to add 'at this point' which basically says you're
      waiting for your opportunity to seize back the throne."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Church <em class="calibre8">does not do</em> unstable, the Church does not
      do <em class="calibre8">drama</em>. We present an image of <em class="calibre8">strict</em> internal
      unity, and we make an example out of people who don't tow the line.
      We have a <em class="calibre8">single</em> leader who is the central locus of the
      movement and their two lieutenants, <em class="calibre8">not</em> a dual-power
      system or a triad!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jesus, Ev, calm down!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She laughed bitterly. "Aha, cold, condescending, cool-cucumber
      Ozland. Don't fucking pretend to be the voice of reason, why the
      fuck aren't you more worried?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I . . . " Ozland seemed genuinely lost. "I don't know. I should
      be. I just . . . all of this," he sighed, leaning forward and
      cupping his hands together. His voice came out almost in a whisper.
      "I feel like I'm walking through a dream. You <em class="calibre8">know</em> I don't
      believe in, well, <em class="calibre8">Him</em> anymore, how do you think I felt
      when the priest who defected from the 77 Church started floating
      around in the interrogation room?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would think that you would reconsider your unfaith and have
      more appreciation for the gifts that God has given you during your
      time on Earth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe that was the intended result."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, shit, just ignore me. What happens next?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had to think about that one. "Today? Nothing. I'll stay on
      as Mars-Minister of Propaganda and Public Relations, you'll stay on
      in General Affairs. Tomorrow? God knows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A series of beeps came from Ozland's pocket. He glanced at his
      pager. "Kevin wants to meet with me at Denny's, probably wants to
      rant at me again. Peace and love, I guess," he said, the standard
      greet-and-goodbye for Unorthodoxists. Ozland turned to leave, and
      carelessly elbowed his way through the stream of people leaving the
      service.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She waved a brief, polite goodbye. "Peace and love," she called
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">##</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">DENNY'S FAMILY RESTAURANT, WESTHAVEN HIGH-DENSITY URBAN
      LIVING ACCOMMODATION, NEW ZEALAND</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Denny's had molded itself to their daily meetings in the
      same way that the passage of air gradually erodes canyons. The
      prices of all the dishes they usually ordered had lowered over
      time. There was a straight line from the door to Table 14 with
      nothing else in the way (with the exception of the forest of potted
      plants that occluded it from all sides), and there were five slight
      indentations in the squishy seat around the circular table. The
      table itself could best be described as abstract art in the medium
      of coffee stains.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kevin waited outside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland found him and all of his mannerisms utterly fascinating.
      He was always tapping his feet, unless he was talking. The longer
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> talked, the faster the tapping became. Every
      half-minute, he glanced at his watch and pulled at his sleeves.
      Throughout a conversation, he always clasped his hands together and
      leant forward, and then a few moments later, he would lean back,
      rocking back and forth like someone trying to keep upright on a
      dinghy being tipped by waves. He had the harried, flustered look of
      someone in a perpetual hurry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he and Ozland walked through the doors, he quickly counted
      the number of red tiles on the restaurant floor in a rapid flurry
      of numbers under his breath and straightened every napkin as they
      went past each empty table. He was clearly angry as they went up to
      the counter to order.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll have the special soup," Ozland said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too loud, can't you get quieter food?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A tall smoothie, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same issue. Slurp slurp slurp."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland wondered if Kevin had a melting point, or if he was like
      one of those chemicals which stayed solid up until a certain
      temperature and then suddenly sublimed into a gas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Deep-fried, extra crunchy spring-rolls."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Again, too loud."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually no, I'll have all three, and Kevin will have mashed
      potatoes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kevin's face melted into confusion, as if he hadn't figured out
      that Ozland was deliberately spiting him, but seemed satisfied with
      the mashed potatoes. The woman nodded, heaped abundant praise on
      Ozland for a bridge infrastructure project he'd never heard of, and
      said she would send the bill to the Church. They went to sit
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland folded his arms and flicked his wrist. Everything went
      silent. "So, what is it? More problems with importing pickles from
      the Trans-Pacific?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kevin splayed out his fingers and seemed to glance at each in
      turn. "No. The end-month pickle imports from the Trans-Pacific
      Railway proceeded as expected. Seventy-six point seven tonnes, cash
      payment of one hundred and fifteen thousand undollars from the
      buyers. Two percent transaction fee. The bidding process begins
      later this evening, and the proceeds will be subject to the
      standard twelve percent import fee which will be added to the
      Vaults within three days." He paused, as if mechanically shifting
      into a different gear. "You killed Rushabh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland frowned. "Excuse me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rushabhhad been regularly requesting antidepressant medication
      for the past six months," Kevin somehow managed to carry off both
      anger and disinterest, "I reviewed the records. He rarely made
      public appearances. He only met with us in the morning
      sporadically. When he did, he seemed hungover and always left
      early. You made a phone call to him the night before he killed
      himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you said that <em class="calibre8">I</em> killed him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kevin folded and unfolded his hands before speaking. "Semantics.
      Did the murderer kill the victim or was it his knife?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair. Keep going." Ozland leant back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister of Logistics was unperturbed. "You made a phone
      call to him the night before he killed himself. You were aware he
      was in a depressive state. He drinks very heavily on Sundays. You
      were aware that in all likelihood, he would pass the position of
      Jupiter-Minister onto you. You were also aware that the correct
      prompting could make him commit suicide. Evelyn told me how you
      looked yesterday, when he informed you about his death. She said
      you looked like you were in shock. But it is easy to mistake shock
      for casual indifference, or for that matter, foreknowledge." He
      continued. "People tend to interpret social cues contextually
      rather than as probabilistic representations of internal mental
      states, which is where I believe her error in judgement came
      from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Alright, I think I've had enough of this</em>. He shook his
      head, putting on a resigned expression. "So it was
      <em class="calibre8">you!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?" Kevin seemed affronted by the sudden shift.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe I didn't make the connection before. As
      Minister of Logistics, you control the inflow and outflow of every
      pill and tablet in the country. Your parents are doctors,
      professors of medicine – you carefully charted every single one of
      Rushabh's mood swings, his low ebbs, his depressive bouts, his
      behaviour, how he spoke, when he left – there was no single other
      man in Auckland more acutely aware of Rushabh's state of mind than
      you, Kevin. And how undervalued you felt! A brilliant mind,
      atrophying in the subordinated bureaucratic jumble that is the
      position of the Mars-Minister of Logistics for the North Shore City
      Region – what tragedy!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everywhere you saw a system running off-time, unused,
      underutilisation and overutilisation, bloated departments, corrupt
      ministers, fat to trim – but what could a man chained to his office
      do? And then a fantastic idea struck you! Rushabh, Ozland, Evelyn,
      Dom – the Commanding Ministers, people listened to them, didn't
      they? They gave orders, people obeyed. What good you could do if
      only you had a higher role! So one night, you adulterated one of
      Rushabh's antidepressants, and oh, it was so easy – too easy, to
      push Rushabh off the edge of the cliff. He was a nuclear-armed
      madman at the end of his rope, no-one would suspect a single thing!
      But a problem emerged – Evelyn and I would obviously want to cover
      up the suicidal aspect of it, possibly broadcasting it as a
      political assassination, and the title would go to me, not you,
      with no controversy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what better a plan than, upon hearing of Rushabh's
      as-expected death, to leak the news before we had time to prepare?
      To throw a wrench into the propaganda machine and disrupt the –
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough!" Kevin roared, "Minister Cunningham," he continued in a
      quieter voice, as if unsure of himself, his eyes unusually tense,
      "you may think that you can successfully run the Church using
      deception and clever wordplay as a substitute for practical and
      sustainable governance. You have never known anything but power,
      and the idea that you could lose power through misunderstanding the
      hegemonic mechanisms and the day-to-day systems underlying the
      perpetuation of your power, is, so far as I can see, a concept
      alien to you. Your fantastic delusions have entranced the Church,
      its upper echelons, and its followers, save for myself." He tilted
      his head. "You will find that reality can only be fooled for so
      long, and when the day comes, when it refuses to be fooled more, I
      will be ready to step forward to return sanity to the Church."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland jaw had tightened, by a fraction of an inch. <em class="calibre8">Maybe my
      improvised piss-take had an element of truth.</em> "My phone call
      was to do with the updated uniform designs. Please don't interrupt
      my busy schedule with pointless murder accusations in future and
      keep your <em class="calibre8">personal</em> dislike of me separate from your work
      as a civil servant, you fuckingslice of <em class="calibre8">shit</em>," he shouted,
      abruptly standing up. He realised he was shaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kevin only stared into his drink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Breathe in.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He left the table, brushing away the potted plants.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Four second hold</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He strode at a quick clip across the diner, attracting curious
      looks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Slowly breathe out.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reached the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Six second hold.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He flung open the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Repeat.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland cupped his face in his hands, leaning back against the
      grubby facade of the building. He had come out into a corridor,
      eight floors up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wall he faced bore a neon blue sign, the symbol of the
      Unorthodox Church. It was the letter C, bisected with the Christian
      cross, like a cent symbol. Below it was a tiny photograph of Saint
      Matchwell, along with a stylised illustration of Evelyn, her
      sunglasses tilted down quizzically. He was there too, in the form
      of a political placard stapled into the drywall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hundreds of thousands had fled to New Zealand during the civil
      wars across the Pacific in the seventies. Hyperdense Urban Living
      Accommodations were Saint Matchwell's prescription for the
      resulting crisis: ten levels of three by three metre cells, a
      thousand on each floor. Fifty thousand times denser population-wise
      than the surrounding city, HULAs were effectively human sardine
      cans. Each floor had a chapter of the Church. Since alternative
      reading material was scarce, HULA children learned to read through
      the Matchwell Revelations and the Celestian Messages, which was all
      for the best, really, in the end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland glanced up at the roof. Was it porridge, matted seaweed,
      tofu, or all three? Most of the HULAs had never been officially
      finished – people brought in their own materials and continued
      where contractors had left off. The dividing walls between
      apartments had been knocked down to make long, winding passageways
      lit by crude fluorescent tubes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Judging by their pale faces, many residents hadn't stepped
      outside their HULA in years. A single undollar note could circulate
      around inside a single unit for a decade before passing outside to
      be exchanged for fresh vegetables, oil, machine parts, and
      livestock. Some HULAs had their own cute little gangs which divided
      up sections of floors as territory and occasionally had cute little
      gang wars with cute little body-counts, he had been amused to
      learn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm distracting myself. This is a mess, this is a fucking
      mess and I made the mess, why did I make this mess?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sound of sloshing water echoed through the corridor, and a
      blonde woman walking her poodle came from around the corner. She
      stopped when she saw him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cunningham?" the woman asked with a disinterested Australian
      drawl. The poodle yapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland stared back at her and eventually nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been told to give this to you." She brought out a yellow
      parcel from her handbag. "Correspondence," she elaborated, putting
      a cigarette in her mouth. "Got a lighter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The den is a few minutes away," Ozland said, turning over the
      parcel in his hands warily. "Why couldn't they just mail me over
      the Red Mundial?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just give the parcels, sweetie," the woman replied,
      continuing her stroll down the dark passageway. "Take that up with
      them when you see them, huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Them?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mystery didn't last for very long. The message had been
      typewritten on blue-cornered office paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His name was handwritten along the top – a touch of personality,
      but Ozland still had the distinct sense that the letter was just an
      end-product, spat out of a vast, indifferent corporate machine with
      a trillion moving parts that he would never be able to comprehend.
      It was as impersonal as a tax form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dear Mr. Min. Gen. Affairs 'O Wise Ldr. Of The 1000 Stars
      Hgh. Priest Gd.-King Ozland Cunningham,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We request your presence to discuss the possibility of
      ThauDevelopment – A Subsidiary of ThauCorp acquiring land in an
      area currently under the jurisdiction of the Authority of the
      Celestian Unorthodox Church.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Please meet us at the standard location.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Yours graciously,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Henry van Nanseer</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Chief of Internal Coordination</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">ThauDevelopment – A Subsidiary of ThauCorp</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">LEVEL 808, CENTRAL OFFICE, THAUCORP DEVELOPMENTAL AREA</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland had identified it, the vague sense of unease. <em class="calibre8">I'm off
      my game.</em> It was Kevin's murder accusation that had been
      bothering him. Why would he make himself a target? Was he recording
      the conversation? What was the point of saying it in the first
      place? There were too many unknowns and not enough answers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The trip to the ThauCorp Developmental Area only put him more on
      edge. There were rumours about the Developmental Area: enormous
      towers reaching into the sky, underground facilities, biological
      weapons testing, mysterious abandoned buildings with flickering
      lights – it was a positive cornucopia of conspiracy and
      intrigue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Naturally, it was only allowed because neighbouring paragovs
      like the Celestian Church were making millions of pounds from
      ground rent. ThauCorp also provided a natural buffer against Ātete,
      an indigenous land-reclamation guerilla army with a penchant for
      sudden waves of aggression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ozland?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He realised he'd zoned out. "Yes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were in an office on the 308th floor, from which only the
      evening sky was visible through the windows. They were seated
      around a rectangular blue table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I was saying," van Nanseer continued, pouring a thick
      dossier of documents onto the tabletop, "we're looking to lease the
      northern portion of Glen Eden for the standard fifty-year
      period."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Ozland asked, frowning. "It's not contiguous with the
      rest of the Developmental Area, is it?" <em class="calibre8">And why not just rent
      it on a monthly basis?</em> It indicated that the Board had become
      confident in the stability of the Church.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The businessman seemed confused. "It's contiguous with Sunnyvale
      and Kelston. Rushabh drew up the deal earlier last month."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What the hell?</em> He pinched the bridge of his nose.
      "Alright, go on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Van Nanseer looked at him strangely and coughed. "We're prepared
      to offer thirty million British pounds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One hundred million pounds," Ozland said automatically. "An
      eighth of that in gold futures, a quarter in Negaloth shares, and
      another quarter in five-year Soviet bonds. Can you arrange
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Van Nanseer smiled. "I'll take it to the board. Pleasure doing
      business with you, Cunningham."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The same," he replied, still distracted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took the metro back to his house unaccompanied (Evelyn would
      scold him later) and collapsed into bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something felt wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">FEBRUARY 3, 1931 – LEVEL MINUS FOUR, MINISTRY OF MAGIC</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For eight seconds, everything was still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then life continued. In Diagon Alley, glasses clinked in
      celebration of Emir Quarfaad's visit to Britain. In Hogsmeade,
      butterbeer disappeared with a heavy <em class="calibre8">glug</em> down the throats
      of wizards and witches. In Malfoy Manor, the nobility made polite
      conversation as clocks chimed to midnight, eight seconds late.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the jubilant atmosphere stopped at the iron door of the
      Department of Mysteries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the corridors, there was a heightened sense of dread.
      Paranoia had infected every passageway. Voices were lowered. Words
      were whispered softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirty minutes later, the Head Unspeakable was pacing
      frantically about in his office, with the growing realization that
      <em class="calibre8">someone</em> had done something wrong, and <em class="calibre8">he</em> would be
      the one to be blamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Time stopped for eight seconds? You're certain?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very, sir," Rookwood replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyone we can blame?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rookwood pondered this. "Samuels, probably, sir. Without the
      special clock he invented, we wouldn't have noticed it –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Department Director gave him a blank look. "The special
      clock?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– the one that measures the number of seconds per second –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– and the chances are one in an obsquatumatillion it'll ever
      happen again, sir. Just a minor surge in the Cup's thaumic output
      causing a buffer overflow in the Ward of the Thirteen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rookwood watched as his superior sat himself down at the
      bloodoak desk, cleared away mounds of paperwork, and started
      thoughtfully drumming his fingers on the worn surface, before it
      began to float gently up towards the ceiling. The Director leant in
      on the desk in a natural motion, keeping it pinned down to the
      floor, and then started floating along with the desk. Unwilling to
      concede defeat, he seemed to come to the conclusion that no
      embarrassment could result if he simply ignored it. The wizard was
      a few centimetres above the ground when he suddenly opened up with
      a rapid-fire barrage of questions. "Splinches at the temporal
      interfaces?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Divergences in thaumometer readings?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothi–"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Leyline breakages?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None that we –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have the Unseelie risen once more from the twisting fractal
      depths of Tir inna n-Og?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er . . . no?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, to be clear," the Head Unspeakable intoned, floating still
      higher, "nothing, <em class="calibre8">nothing</em> which we would, in our duties as
      guardians of ancient lore, gatekeepers of eldritch horrors beyond
      the mortal ken of man, tamers of the raging primordial elemental
      forces, etcetera etcetera etcetera, <em class="calibre8">nothing</em> which we would
      be <em class="calibre8">obliged</em> to inform the Minister of in the upcoming
      budgetary session?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well . . . I'll have to fill out a form, sir. Unintentional
      temporal malpractice. I, er, faintly recall," Rookwood said. (He
      was familiar enough with the form to have caught himself
      subconsciously tracing its outlines in the fogged window by his
      desk.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good, good," the Director muttered distractedly, his head
      slowly nearing the ceiling. "I'm sure you're aware of what this
      <em class="calibre8">looks</em> like, Rookwood. It looks like we're overstepping the
      boundaries. It looks like we're mismanaging our mysticism,
      debauching our divine powers –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– I'm sure, sir –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– abusing the occult, exploiting our esotericism –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– I think I understand –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– perverting prophecy, <em class="calibre8">ouch</em>, corrupting our karm . . .
      er . . . karmicosity . . . yes, indeed." The wizard straightened
      his glasses, and sighed, head now planted firmly in plasterboard.
      From below, he had all the seeming of a bureaucrat ascended to a
      higher managerial plane of being. "Ward of the Thirteen, Ward of
      the Thirteen. Rookwood, why <em class="calibre8">does</em> that name ring a
      bell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm, it's the ward that supports all the other wards, sir,"
      Rookwood said, wondering if it would've been considered impolite to
      look up. "Merlin and a bunch of other fancy wizards whipped it up
      in the one-hundreds. It was, er, originally erected to defend us
      from the ice-mages of Orendel but, well, feature creep, I suppose.
      According to the ancient scrolls we looked at, the time-stopping
      component was meant to temporarily halt Daevite encroachment, but
      the only thing we found on the Daevites in the Department Archival
      Library was a small black book with a note stuck to it which said
      to never read it or bring it within fifteen metres of human
      blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And this . . . defense mechanism . . . activated . . .
      why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rookwood coughed. "The ward's only rated for twenty trillion
      thaums, but ever since we plugged the Cup into the central Nexus,
      it's been getting much more juice than it's rated for. The Great
      Enchanter was holidaying in Belgium when it happened so he
      dismissed it – otherwise we'd have been frozen forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That bloody Cup <em class="calibre8">has</em> been causing a fair share of
      nuisance, hasn't it? Why don't we just smash the ruddy thing
      up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Olymp Kagnarr from the ICW's Bad Things Division says if the
      Cup so much as gets knocked over, it would melt the Earth and a few
      other things besides."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Director jolted in his seat. "Merlin, we have a potential
      <em class="calibre8">Earth-and-other-things-besides-destroying</em> artifact
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make sure to mention it in the budgetary session. I want them
      to know I'm as mad as a Mudlomper, unhinged as a broken door,
      semi-psychotic, away with the færies, and ready to melt the Earth
      and a few other things besides at a moment's notice, and then we'll
      see how long it takes for them to cut a few thousand Galleons from
      the damn DMLE."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Noted. In the meanwhile, should I look into ways to discharge
      the thaumic surplus, perhaps to some trusted third parties?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dear Editor,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I am SHOCKED and APPALLED at the HORRENDOUS quality of this
      year's home appliances! My light fixtures have stopped working, my
      deep freeze refuses to operate, my radio is stuck on one channel,
      and my toaster EXPLODED in a shower of sparks yesterday! In fact,
      not a SINGLE electrical device in my entire household is
      functioning properly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">SHAME on British corporations who use CHEAP and NASTY
      manufacturing methods!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So far, only Negaloth's appliances have proved functional and
      what a BEAUTY they are! Negaloth was kind enough to replace all of
      my appliances with patented Negaloth technology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I urge readers to purchase ONE Negaloth device and see how
      BRILLIANTLY they operate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kind Regards,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Margaret Gullikson</p>
      <p class="calibre6">– March 5, 1936 (Dorset Gazette)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">HOGWARTS, SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS, REPUBLIC OF SCOTLAND – THE HERE
      AND NOW</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dawn came to Hogwarts. It washed over the gardens, tickled the
      stonework, brushed the tips of the towers, and eventually struck
      Ozland in the face with full force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His first bizarre thought as he woke up was that he had been
      imprisoned. The walls, ceiling, and floor were all stone.
      Apparently, somehow he'd been taken back to Hogwarts and these
      would be his accommodations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The one window, off in the far corner, was done in coloured
      glass: a knight wildly swinging a sword at a green dragon. As he
      looked closer, the dragon roared, and tessellated shards of red and
      orange glass erupted from its mouth. When he looked next, the
      dragon and the knight had rolled out a piece of cloth and were
      picnicking together on top of the hill. Then, once the last
      crystalline sandwich had been eaten, they were back at it again
      with renewed vigour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shaking his head, Ozland got out of bed. He looked around the
      room more. There was a door at the end, of course, but it was
      otherwise bare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He went up to the coloured glass and tapped it. "Oi you,
      where're the showers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The small knight figure motioned at the door with its sword, but
      otherwise seemed to ignore him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door only lead to a corridor, and the corridor lead to a
      main passageway of sorts, layered with paintings on either side.
      Ozland was surprised there had been enough people in all of
      wizarding Britain's history to paint portraits of, although, he
      supposed, some of them might have been made up by the artists.
      (Which in turn implied that whatever process was used to make new
      paintings also created fully-fledged consciousnesses with their own
      memories and personalities as a byproduct.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I ought to ask again," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ask what?" came a reply from his left. The voice sounded
      distant and had a slight reverb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked to his left: there was a glum painting of a dimly-lit
      corridor, much like the one he'd come down. Hung up on one of its
      walls, rimmed with gold, done in little brushstrokes, was a tiny
      painting inside the painting – a princess, from what he could tell,
      dressed in florid blue. "Where are the showers?" he asked,
      fascinated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are the showers?" Ozland said again, much louder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said the princess-painting, "you'll have to excuse me, the
      acoustics in this hall aren't that good. And why in the name of
      Merlin would you want to have a shower like a commoner?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What else would I do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Clean-Up Charm, naturally," the meta-painting replied,
      seeming confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's simple. Say '<em class="calibre8">Lasciato</em>', and then do this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I'm doing with my wand right now, you dolt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, the brushstrokes aren't fine enough for me to see what's
      going on," Ozland said, embarrassed. "Just looks like a blurry
      squiggle to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The princess sighed. "I'll have to fetch the Meta-Man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The man who can go up and down painting levels."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . how many of those are there, exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The meta-painting seemed to consider this. "Well, about eight
      hundred going down – I'm not sure how many there are going up,
      though. Are <em class="calibre8">you</em> a painting, by any chance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, I don't think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Think</em> so or <em class="calibre8">know</em> so? And do you want me to
      fetch the Meta-Man or not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you would be so kind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The princess left her frame, presumably in search of the
      mysterious Meta-Man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take too long. The perspective of the painting started
      to look more and more wrong. Black lines bled and perspectives
      bulged, colours collapsed into sickly gray-greens. The brushstrokes
      in the painting began to wriggle like earthworms, knotting and
      melting until the Meta-Man took shape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Meta-Man, Ozland thought, wasn't really a man. He was a
      grotesque, brutal geometric abstraction, covered in charcoal veins.
      Nine pairs of blinking eyes roiled about on his body. The only
      thing that made him barely human was a red business-tie running
      down his front. Looking at him filled Ozland with the irrational
      fear that someday he would find out how to bleed into the real
      world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he watched with horrified intrigue, the Meta-Man somehow drew
      himself a hand, which then drew a brush, which drew another hand,
      and then a wide, thick-lipped mouth filled with uneven teeth. And
      then finally, a wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the Meta-Man's eyes drifted across its body to look at
      the princess-painting, who motioned with her wand. The Meta-Man
      copied. A twirl, then a vertical line from top to bottom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Lasciato</em>," it growled. The canvas of the painting
      rippled and bulged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks for all the help," Ozland half-squeaked, darting down
      the passageway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">###</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After some time, tracing back his steps, Ozland realised he was
      lost. It was absurd – it had only been five minutes or so of
      wandering down a straight hall, but when he looked for the corridor
      he'd come from, he only found a grotty stairwell that kept on
      descending and descending until it came to an abrupt dead-end with
      an oil painting of an artist with a curly moustache, painting a
      self-portrait. Water dripped from the low ceiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me," he said to the artist, almost only to break the
      dreadful silence, "I'm lost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The artist kept painting, ignoring him until: "And where would
      you be trying to get to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had the vaguest hint of a French accent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Ozland replied, "I was hoping you'd help me
      figure that out, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," the painted-artist said, dipping its brush into violet
      gouache, "then you must first know what you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, okay, that's useful advice in general, I guess – I just
      want breakfast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go up the stairs, go down the corridor, and turn eight
      lefts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, Ozland wasn't going to bother questioning it.
      "Turn eight fucking lefts," he muttered under his breath, breaking
      into a jog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The architecture of Hogwarts, however, was unwilling to
      accommodate the simplicity of lefts and rights. The end of one
      candle-lit corridor had a clear 90-degree left turn, but as he
      rushed closer and closer, it began straightening out, and by the
      time he'd reached it, it was a rightward U-bend that turned into a
      spiral stairwell. He opted to walk backward since technically it
      would still count as a left, and every revolution of the stairwell
      would be another turn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so he ended up crashing into Dumbledore, who was walking up
      the stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Ozland," he boomed, "a fortunate coincidence. Professor
      Trelawney is expecting us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just looking for breakfast – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore twiddled his fingers, and a white dining plate
      accompanied by a knife and a fork fell from nowhere, settling to
      float in front of him. The wizard proceeded to reach into the
      pockets of his robe, pulled out an unlabelled can, opened it, and
      poured steaming baked beans onto the plate. "Everlasting baked
      beans," he said, by way of explanation, "one of the exceptions to
      the Principal Exceptions to Gamp's Law," and began snapping his
      fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two sausages, a hash brown, a poached egg, and a small saucer
      filled with green stew fell neatly onto the plate with each
      snap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Ozland murmured, following Dumbledore. The plate kept
      hovering in front of him, and as soon as he'd reached the top of
      the stairs, he began digging in. (He wasn't confident that he could
      safely eat with a knife and fork and walk up a stairwell at the
      same time.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They reached another stairwell going up, done in chessboard
      marble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Professor Trelawney is the careers advisor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Trelawney is Hogwarts' Divinations Professor,"
      Dumbledore said, fiddling with a knot in his beard. "Aside from her
      work in financial consultancy, crystal orb repair, relationship
      counselling, property investment, and insurance, she is our
      resident careers advisor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She can predict the future?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If only it were so simple." Dumbledore sighed, finally undoing
      the beard-knot that had been causing him grief and in doing so
      creating two more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He asked Ozland to make sure he was standing on a white square,
      and using a staff that hadn't been in his hand until a moment
      before, he tapped at the chequered marble floor. Immediately, the
      square Ozland had been standing on began to separate itself from
      the rest, accelerating up the stairwell, causing the others around
      it to fly apart around it, like the tiles on a scrabble board after
      being violently shook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door was ajar. Ozland pushed, and Dumbledore followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Trelawney's room was strangely comforting. It was wide
      and open, but felt curiously snug. Purple draperies, curtains and
      carpets were everywhere, and in the centre, there were about fifty
      evenly-spaced, circular tables – each with a kettle. It smelt
      strongly of cinnamon and oranges.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Albus," came a voice from across the room. "What can I do
      for – no, of course, Master Dwimmersmith is here to have his
      potential career paths examined."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uncanny as always," Dumbledore said, his eyes twinkling, and
      then in a lowered, conspiratorial voice, "were it not for the fact
      that I scheduled this appointment – "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" – four weeks ago," Professor Trelawney said, "and I foresaw
      that you would schedule the appointment so I scheduled an
      appointment for you to schedule the appointment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore shook his head. "As I said, uncanny. Ozland, this is
      – ah, I've already introduced you – and Sybill, this is – hmm, I
      see introductions will not be necessary." At Ozland's uncertain
      look, he added: "Across from the tables, behind the curtain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then promptly vanished in a ball of fire (Ozland decided to
      put off thinking about that one for the moment).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Divination Professor seemed to pride herself on her oddness,
      like most of the wizarding world. She had thick glasses that gave
      her eyes a bulbous look, and cultivated frizzy hair. Moreover, she
      was sitting in front of fifty cups of tea, all of them in the
      process of being stirred and refilled by some unseen mechanism. As
      Ozland sat himself down in front of her desk, he noticed her eyes
      were flitting from cup to cup, as if checking each one. After some
      time, she began furiously scribbling down notes on parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tasseomancy – tea-reading, of course," Professor Trelawney
      said, profoundly, "but you already know that. You're wondering what
      I'm doing with fifty cups of tea, and you're also wondering how
      they're being stirred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A long, dramatic pause followed this remark. "The answer to your
      second question is a combination of the runic transform of the
      Refilling Charm, which is fueled by Hogwarts' leylines, and a
      generic motion-effect Charm adapted to stir the tea. Would you like
      to know the answer to the first question, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Divination Professor told him to pick up a cup, take it in
      his left hand, and move it in a circle rapidly three times from
      left to right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should I drink it now, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be silly," she said, tapping the rim of the cup with her
      wand. The liquid immediately disappeared, leaving only light-green
      water at the bottom along with scattered fragments of tea leaves.
      "Now," the witch pointed to a series of little black clumps stuck
      to the side, "what do these look like to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ozland paused, considering. "A boat . . . and a cloud, oh and
      that one looks like a fox."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Trelawney stared at him, in an odd, piercing way, as
      if she had divined some deep and unknowable truth and decided not
      to say it aloud. "Very good," she said slowly, "now, any of these
      symbols can represent any number of things. The fox is an
      opportunity, or a friend who has turned against you, the boat is a
      journey – physical or metaphorical, and the cloud is changing
      circumstances . . . usually for the worse. The meaning is amplified
      by the positional relations between the symbols, you see –
      impressive, certainly, but not <em class="calibre8">useful</em> or
      <em class="calibre8">actionable</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Ozland said, barely keeping up. "But why would clumps .
      . . no, I have a better question – why would a clump of leaves that
      <em class="calibre8">looked</em> like a fox have anything to do with
      opportunity?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do fairy-tales have evil stepmothers? Why do stories have
      beginnings, middles, and ends? Why do birds fly in flocks, and why
      are buildings made of bricks? The fox is a unit, a symbol of the
      deep subconscious, and it is only through contextualising it,
      <em class="calibre8">renewing</em> it, as a symbol of opportunity or betrayal that
      it acquires a meaning, Mr. Dwimmersmith."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you could contextualise the fox to mean <em class="calibre8">anything</em>,"
      he argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Trelawney smiled for the first time he had seen her.
      "Precisely. Now, suppose a blacksmith wanted to know where he ought
      to set up shop in France? Would 'opportunity' and 'betrayal by a
      friend' suit his purposes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't think so." Ozland leaned forward, thinking
      intensely. "Oh, so you're constructing new interpretive systems.
      Ones that need more than one cup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Precisely. What you see in front of you, Mr. Dwimmersmith, is a
      General Diviner." The Divination Professor sat back, seeming
      utterly satisfied, and then suddenly frowned. "Or, at least, the
      beginnings of one. I suspect a few thousand more cups will be
      needed. The issue, unfortunately, is any system I design, I'll have
      to be able to remember in complete detail while I'm stirring the
      teacups – but a Universal Diviner would require a very large system
      indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's quite the conundrum," Ozland said sympathetically. "Will
      this set-up be able to tell me about what career I should
      choose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Career?" Professor Trelawney said, blankly. "Oh, yes." She
      lazily motioned with her hand, and a sheet of paper flew from the
      ceiling. "I'll just need to refresh," she murmured, scanning over
      the paper. "It's the trouble, every meaning-system has to be
      simultaneous and relational, so you won't ever be able to extract a
      simple English sentence from a Specific Diviner – all the
      tea-leaves settle down into clumps at the same time, after all. And
      each symbol-combination has to relate to the meaning
      <em class="calibre8">somehow</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Trelawney put the paper down, closing her eyes and
      seeming to concentrate. "<em class="calibre8">Twenty-five, up, stir, drain</em>,"
      she commanded. Half of the cups rose into the air and did exactly
      that. What was left was an enormous marbled pattern that stretched
      across a table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The witch peered at the cups, consulted the notes, and looked up
      once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a long silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, dear. This has never happened before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">#######</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
