<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 11: Winning and Losing, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Winning and Losing</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During his second year at Hogwarts, Harry is still concerned
      about the fate of the world, but has made significant progress:
      Hermione has obtained a phoenix and destroyed Azkaban's dementors,
      and Acting Chief Warlock Bones is grudgingly taking his cues on
      national policy. Progress toward a functional Philosopher's Stone
      based hospital at Hogwarts has stalled due to ward
      incompatibilities and a temporary solution has been set up in the
      now-abandoned Azkaban tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprout received a mysterious gift, the long-lost and apparently
      cursed Hufflepuff Cup, and displayed uncharacteristically
      aggressive behavior afterwards. Moody detected evidence of dark
      magic on her but it was inconclusive. Since then, Moody has
      researched more specific spells for detecting horcrux effects and,
      as one might expect, Hermione tested positive. Draco, after finding
      the Riddle Diary, showed some very dark-wizard-like thoughts and
      behaviors such as working to amass power and followers for himself,
      and brutally knocking down anyone who gets in his way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna demonstrates uncanny knowledge even though she's obviously
      not a real seer. Moody has hypothesized that Defense professor
      Gilderoy Lockhart is incompetent and relying on liquid luck for his
      accomplishments. Bellatrix is still at large and able to appear in
      public despite topping Magical Britain's most wanted list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry has a relatively long list of things he intends to
      investigate, including big picture items like Merlin's Interdict,
      prophecy, time-turner paradoxes, magic-technology interactions, and
      helping Dumbledore, as well as smaller scale things like looking
      into Ravenclaw's Diadem or whether the potion liquid luck is a real
      thing or a cover story. Magical interferences with technology are
      proving more difficult to pin down than he had hoped.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"You ssaid no time," came the snake's hiss, "but plan iss
      for you to rule country, obvioussly, even your young noble friend
      hass undersstood that by now, assk him on return if you
      wissh...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Learn all that I have to teach you, Mr. Potter, and you
      will rule this country in time. Then you may tear down the prison
      that democracy made, if you find that Azkaban still offends your
      sensibilities. Like it or not, Mr. Potter, you have seen this day
      that your own will conflicts with the will of this country's
      populace, and that you do not bow your head and submit to their
      decision when that occurs. So to them, whether or not they know it,
      and whether or not you acknowledge it, you are their next Dark
      Lord...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"To free yoursself, to gain power in Britain, you musst
      again be sseen to defeat the Dark Lord. You are kidnapped from
      Hogwartss to public location, many witnesssess, wardss keep out
      protectorss. Dark Lord announcess that he hass at long lasst
      regained physical form, after wandering as sspirit for yearss;
      ssayss that he hass gained sstill greater power, not even you can
      sstop him now. Offerss to let you duel. You casst guardian Charm,
      Dark Lord laughss at you, ssayss he iss not life-eater. Casstss
      Killing Cursse at you, you block, watcherss ssee Dark Lord explode
      -"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Casst Killing Cursse? " Harry hissed in incredulity. "At
      me? Again? Ssecond time? Nobody will believe Dark Lord could
      posssibly be that sstupid -"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The snake swayed thoughtfully. "Could write different
      sscript for play, if you wissh. Whatever sscenario, sshould leave
      open posssibility Dark Lord might return yet again - nation musst
      think they are sstill dependent on you to protect them."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Too rissky," Harry said simply.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"If my plan iss not to your tasste, what iss
      yours?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"If necesssary - sstay at sschool ssix yearss and sstudy.
      Hogwartss sseemss fine place to dwell. Bookss, friendss, sstrange
      but tassty food." Harry wanted to chuckle, but there wasn't any
      gesture in Parseltongue for the kind of laughter he wanted to
      express.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The pits of the snake's eyes seemed almost black. "Eassy to
      ssay that now. Ssuch as you and I, we do not tolerate
      imprissonment. You will losse patience long before sseventh year,
      perhapss before end of thiss one. I sshall plan
      accordingly."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly opened his eyes, then closed and rubbed them. He
      sighed. Voldemort's claimed goal for him bore an uncanny
      resemblance to the current reality: he had apparently defeated
      Voldemort, though he'd given Hermione public credit. He had a seat
      on the Wizengamot (and was secretly its Chief Warlock). He had
      access to a surprising amount of powerful magic (including the
      Philosopher's Stone, the Mirror, two Deathly Hallows, two
      phoenices, and Hogwarts itself). Harry decided to raise his
      probability estimate for the hypothesis that Voldemort was still...
      active, which also raised the probability estimate that he was
      responsible for the events at Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort had once promised (in Parseltongue) not to harm him,
      so long as he didn't attack Voldemort. Even though Voldemort had
      apparently planned for Harry to attack him and then kill Harry (or
      have death eaters kill him) all along. Had that deception been
      carefully worded enough to be permitted by Parseltongue, or was it
      evidence Voldemort had found a more general way to lie in
      Parseltongue?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if Voldemort had heard a prophecy implying Harry would do
      something apocalyptic, prophecies weren't known for providing
      useful specifics, like names and dates. Therefore Voldemort
      would've had to consider every possible interpretation, including
      the possibility that either the subject of the prophecy was someone
      else or the meaning was something else. And Voldemort had already
      guessed that Dumbledore had a source of information about the
      future, so it should have raised a red flag that Dumbledore (who'd
      let his own brother die rather than negotiate with Voldemort) would
      sacrifice himself for Harry (and not even to guarantee Harry's
      safety, but to give Harry a chance as a hostage of a mass murderer
      rather than a certainty of being locked outside time). Strangely,
      Voldemort had not only been unsurprised, his plan had depended on
      Dumbledore's decision. In retrospect, it couldn't have been more
      obvious that Dumbledore considered Harry the most important person
      in the world. And Voldemort had predicted that somehow. Had
      Voldemort determined details of the prophecies Dumbledore had heard
      by observing his prior behavior?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes widened as he bolted upright. Temporary memory
      charms existed; Dumbledore had used them to hide Narcissa.
      Voldemort had used a confundus charm to beat the ancient mirror.
      Obliviation would beat veritaserum. Was that all it took to lie in
      Parseltongue?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let out a brief laugh despite himself; it would be even
      more interesting if memory charms didn't fool Parseltongue because
      searching for differences between what one believed and what one
      could hiss out loud would provide a way to detect memory charms.
      Harry decided he needed to test this at his earliest
      convenience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled out of bed, deciding to put off homework until
      after breakfast. He wanted to spend a few hours practicing analytic
      charms and working on spells for some charmed objects he'd need
      later in the week. Because if Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres
      entered a competition, he meant to win.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">An artifact that just turns off lights? Why would Dumbledore
      make this? He could already dispel any magical light, extinguish
      any fire, cool anything incandescent, and interrupt any electrical
      circuit using basic charms. For him, such things wouldn't normally
      require anything close to his full power level. The object's
      existence was senseless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least Harry's vow was no longer pushing for its immediate
      destruction, as he was sufficiently convinced that directing it at
      the sun wouldn't disrupt solar fusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Knowing Dumbledore, it was probably a necessary component of
      some Rube Goldbergesque plan, without which all life would be
      doomed. Harry sighed, resting his forehead on his palm, and dropped
      the object into his pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cleared his desk, re-shelving a few books and leaning a
      long wooden rod against the wall. He pulled a hooded cloak from his
      pouch, spread it out on the desk, leveled his wand at it and began
      to concentrate.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"What in Merlin's name did I ever do to you people?", Neville
      asked exasperatedly. Facing three upperclassmen alone was the
      scariest thing he'd experienced in a while, but he was trying his
      hardest not to show it; Harry would never show fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick smirked, "Your choice of friends offends me. Also
      H-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville had been practicing dueling all summer, but he wasn't
      anywhere near <em class="calibre7">this</em> good. Luckily he'd planned ahead.
      "Earmuffs", he instructed his pouch. "Sorry, guys, Listening to
      idiots is bad for my health, so..." He quickly backed up and ducked
      around a corner, avoiding several spells which impacted the
      opposite wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After pulling on the earmuffs, all he could hear was the sound
      of blood rushing through his own ears. He clearly wasn't missing
      anything because the Slytherin, who had now turned the corner and
      faced Neville, was yelling enough to turn his face red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was brushing a finger against the pouch; Harry had
      taught him that he could retrieve objects by spelling rather than
      saying them. He lifted the pot with one hand, while uprooting the
      mandrake inside with the other. The other students instantly fell
      over, stunned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville hit each one with a stupify, just to be safe, before
      carefully replanting the mandrake and returning it to his pouch. He
      then collected their wands and applied sticking charms between
      their hands and the ground. "That should hold them for long
      enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Neville walked away, Draco stepped out from behind another
      corner, muttering to himself, "And I thought it would be suspicious
      for <em class="calibre7">two</em> second years to defeat more than three
      upperclassmen at once. I have to stop overestimating my minions.
      And think of some better plans. Enervate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they woke up, he continued, "Well, that was a waste. How am I
      supposed to rescue Neville from you people if he can handle you on
      his own? But because I am a reasonable lord, I will release you
      from the trap you got yourselves stuck in. This time. Finite
      incantatem." He walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, what happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are our wands?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville walked toward the Great Hall, passing the Weasley twins
      along the way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Fred, George. Do you guys have any fast-acting glue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred narrowed his eyes, "Yeah, what do you need it for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trust me, if this works, you'll want to see it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George shrugged, "Well, I'm curious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me, too", Fred agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville pulled out the three wands and set them on the floor. He
      held the first wand by its handle in his left hand and applied a
      liberal coat of glue to about a third of the opposite end. He used
      his own wand to cast a hover charm at it and propelled the wand to
      the ceiling. After holding it for thirty seconds Neville canceled
      the hover charm, "finite incantatem... Cool, that actually
      worked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you only put glue on the front of the wand and not the
      handle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, snapping a wand is one of those things you just never do
      to someone. But if they're stupid enough to snap their own wands by
      yanking on them hard enough, that's not technically my fault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George stared at the ceiling for a second, blinked,
      then simultaneously exclaimed, "My turn!", grabbing one of the
      remaining wands. A minute later, all three wands were solidly glued
      to the high ceiling of the Great Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville, that was brilliant!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We really need to step up our game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's too bad Filch isn't still around. He always deserved
      anything we came up with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe we should check up on his replacement?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, Neville, whose wands were those anyway?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise set up a poster containing a large grid and yelled out,
      "Bets! Place your bets here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Members of the Gryffindor quidditch team arrived at the front of
      the crowd, betting on Ron by between one and three seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hufflepuff team evened things up a bit, betting anywhere
      between Harry by two seconds and Ron by two seconds, except for
      Cedric who bet on Harry by two to three seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory bet Harry by three to four seconds, which Vincent
      matched. Theodore followed them, betting on Harry by four to five
      seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory frowned, "Ron's flying a Nimbus 2000. No matter how well
      someone can fly, I can't see them beating a Nimbus by more than
      maybe three and a half seconds on a flight this long. Do you know
      something I don't or are you just hoping to win the pot if Ron
      falls into the lake or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender added, "Yeah, I know Harry's good at flying, but he
      can't be <em class="calibre7">that</em> much better than Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore shrugged, "I don't know anything you don't. But it is
      General Chaos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma added, "Yeah, Harry will always do something
      unexpected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory appeared offended as Seamus bet next, on Harry to win by
      five to six seconds, and Tracey bet on Harry by six to seven. "What
      are you people thinking? You know how brooms work and-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender interrupted, "Wait, if you expect him to do something
      unexpected, then is it-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean interrupted, "At least you're all allowed to bet. Stupid
      conflict of interest. That's what I get for agreeing to help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy and Penelope walked over and inspected Blaise's betting
      board.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Penelope frowned at Blaise, "There are rules against betting on
      Hogwarts sporting events."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise smiled broadly, "While this competition may or may not
      meet the definition of a 'sport' (which by the way, is not clearly
      defined in the Hogwarts handbook or supporting documents), it was
      neither organized nor sanctioned by the school and is therefore not
      a Hogwarts sporting event."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A technicality-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all, the rules ban gambling only in certain specific
      circumstances, such as Hogwarts official sporting events, or when
      and how Defense professors will turn evil. That implies that
      gambling in any other context is acceptable. Also, I'm donating 10%
      of all bets to a charity. You wouldn't want to deprive those war
      orphans of food would you? I can tell you wouldn't do that; you're
      definitely not a monster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Percy asked, "Your options only go up to the 'nine to ten
      second' box. What happens if no one wins? You keep all the
      money?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise frowned, "It's impossible for anyone to win by more than
      ten seconds no matter how badly they screw up. I suppose the giant
      squid could grab one of them or something, but I'm sure in that
      case, they'd re-run the race."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy replied, "Then you should say you'll refund all the bets
      if someone wins by more than ten seconds. Or, if you change those
      boxes to say 'nine or more seconds', I'll put a galleon on
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise and Penelope looked at Percy, surprised. Blaise replied,
      "Oh, sorry, I didn't realize this was a business negotiation. I'd
      be happy to let you place that bet." He inked a quill and quickly
      amended the 'nine to ten seconds' heading to 'more than nine
      seconds' and Percy handed him a galleon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Penelope looked at Percy questioningly. He shrugged, "He's
      right; it's not actually against the rules. And how often do you
      find a sure thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George glanced at each other, then handed Blaise more
      coins, gesturing at the 'more than nine seconds' box.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey, Seamus, Nott didn't have more money on them, but
      attempted to change their bets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No refunds or transfers", Blaise announced. "Also, betting is
      now closed; it looks like the race is starting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean attempted to yell over the multiple conversations until
      Harry cast a sonorus charm on him. Dean's voice then carried
      easily, "Okay, today we're going to have a broomstick race out and
      back over the lake. I'm Dean Thomas and I'll be the judge and
      announcer for this event. Ginny Weasley and Colin Creevey are line
      judges at the far side of the lake; one of them will throw red
      sparks when Ron reaches the edge of the lake, and the other will
      throw blue sparks when Harry gets there. Oh, right... Your
      contestants for today are Ronald Weasley of Gryffindor on a brand
      new Nimbus 2000, and Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres of Ravenclaw
      on a... something that looks more like a coat rack with a bowl
      stuck to it than a broom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lifted the broom and pointed. Dean reads out, "It's
      apparently a model 'UR2L8'... oh, I get it... Anyway..." Dean
      lifted into the air on his broom and called, "Contestants to their
      starting positions!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron called 'up' and quickly darted to where Dean indicated the
      starting line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held out his broom and tapped it with his wand. He then
      climbed onto it, rotated the parabolic pusher plate to point down
      and quietly cast 'ventus' against it. He slowly rose into the air
      after them and, after some maneuvering, took his place at the
      starting line, though he wasn't quite pointed in the correct
      direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron pointed and laughed, "Beating you on that... piece of trash
      won't even be fun. I thought you delayed this race so you could get
      a real racing broom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "It's a magically propelled vehicle. If you'd
      like to challenge whether it meets the rules, please do that now,
      before the race."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron just scoffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Dean called the start of the race, they both shot out over
      the lake. For the first few seconds, they were dead even, though
      Harry's broom fish-tailed disconcertingly. Then Ron's Nimbus
      reached its maximum speed and Harry's broom pulled ahead, still
      accelerating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later, Harry saw the blue sparks around him and the
      broom instantly stopped. Then it accelerated backwards, spinning
      around and oscillating briefly before stabilizing. Harry rotated
      the pusher plate to the left and cast ventus against it, giving him
      a larger margin of safety from Ron's flight path as they quickly
      approached each other. Harry passed the finish line and immediately
      stopped. He then turned the parabola upward and cast ventus into
      it, causing the broom to slowly descend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later, Ron landed, yelling, "You cheated!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "I told you that's what you would say; that's why
      I made you write out the rules. And <em class="calibre7">I</em> haven't broken even
      one of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what was the official time?", Tracey called to Dean.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, technically, the race isn't over yet. No red sparks means
      Ron never actually made it to the far side of the lake." He turned
      to Ron, "Right now, you're thirty seconds behind. Are you planning
      to finish, or do you just want to give up now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron stormed off angrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred puts arm around Percy, "We need to get you to gamble more
      often", while George hold his hand out to Blaise, "You have our
      money yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy pulled away from his brother and quietly addressed Harry,
      "So, we haven't covered brooms yet; what exactly is that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it's not exactly a normal broom. I used the hover charm
      from the target drones (which I assume brooms also use), added an
      'arresto momento' to stop it, and other than that, there's just a
      spell that makes it accelerate north, and a spell that makes it
      accelerate south. I have to cast 'ventus' on it to do anything
      else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What about turning?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't. It just goes north and south as quickly as
      possible, which was optimal for the rules Ron wrote. It doesn't use
      spells to control its attitude either; these tail surfaces use
      aerodynamic forces to keep it pointed in the right direction once
      it's moving fast enough. Ron's rules only required it to be
      propelled magically, not for it to be stabilized magically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy shook his head, "We'll have to discuss this again once we
      cover the broom chapter. It's suddenly more interesting to me than
      it was before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I look forward to that."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean Thomas noticed Harry walking toward him and stopped, "Hey
      Harry, what's up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then noticed Harry was carrying what looked likea torture
      device for candles: a wax cylinder with a long bolt running through
      its axis and into a motor and a needle sticking into the side of
      the cylinder. "And what's that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled broadly, while holding the needle away from the wax
      and twisting the bolt. When finished, he gently placed the needle
      back onto the cylinder and started the motor, "... Harry, what's up
      ... nd ... ats ... that..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can do sound recording and playback. It's not the greatest
      quality, but how well can you really expect wax to store analog
      audio data?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cool. What does that mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The bottom line is, I don't know what will happen to a cassette
      player at Hogwarts, but it's definitely possible to play records
      here. So if you still want music, it's doable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's great!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, I was wondering if you could help me with a related
      experiment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, sure. What do you need?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On your trips home and back for Christmas break, take something
      electronic along and keep an eye on where it works and where it
      doesn't. I want to know as accurately as possible where the
      boundaries are. Electronics will work at your house, and not work
      at Hogwarts or the train platform. I'm not sure about the train
      itself or how close you can get to Hogwarts or the train station
      before things stop working."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Okay, I can do that. Have you found anything else
      interesting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I tried to make a telegraph. Everything worked, while it was in
      my office anyway. When I tried to connect a few different rooms
      together, everything inexplicably failed. It worked again when I
      dragged all the parts out into the hallway. I hypothesized that
      maybe circuits only work when the operator has a line of sight with
      all parts; most of the things that worked for me were basically
      laid out on breadboards, while my commercial watch and calculator
      are in plastic cases. But I quickly ruled that out because my AM
      transmitter didn't work, and that was on a breadboard. Then I
      thought about how radio waves travel through walls, and
      hypothesized that I may need a line of sight with all the effects
      of a circuit. But that still doesn't explain why ICs work despite
      being encased in plastic. I tried taking the circuit board out of
      the calculator, just in case that explanation was close to whatever
      is really going on, but that didn't help either. Next, I think I'll
      try to build a digital clock from components, then check individual
      sections of the circuit to see where it breaks down. But I think
      I'm going to take a break from circuits for a while. Some other
      projects I've been working on have been more rewarding
      recently."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart smiled brightly, "Welcome to the first meeting of the
      Hogwarts Dueling Club! We'll wait a few more minutes for stragglers
      to arrive, then get started."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender smirked, "What is with that cloak? It looks ridiculous.
      Is that even a real color? I didn't know blue could look like
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, "Yup. I'm aware of this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Parvati added, "And you wore it on purpose? And what's with the
      triangles? Wait, they're not triangles, they're pyramid shaped
      dents. That's got to be uncomfortable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "The biggest problem is that it's too hot. I
      have to keep casting cooling charms on it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron smirked, "It's still not as bright as Lockhart's robe. Maybe
      this is Harry's way of sucking up to the Defense professor this
      year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's Hermione?", Susan asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's not coming. I don't really blame her after her last
      experience with dueling", Padma opined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry forced himself to nod along, despite strongly suspecting
      that Hermione would have loved a chance to show off; it was just
      too soon for her abilities to become publicly known and she wasn't
      that good at acting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart clapped once and announced, "Okay, let's get started.
      For now, we'll just get a feel for where everyone is. First to
      disarm or stun your opponent wins, and don't use anything dangerous
      or you'll be banned from the club. All of you, line up along that
      wall. You and you, and all of you, line up there. Spread out evenly
      and face your first opponent. Let's start out at a distance of
      about 10 meters. That should be close enough to be a targeting
      challenge for some of you, but close enough that you'll have to
      dodge from the first shot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked across the room and saw Ginny. He muttered, "Come
      on, is this a joke? Fighting a firstie? Give me a real
      opponent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart was walking nearby and overheard, "We'll rotate in a
      moment. But don't underestimate. Rule #5: it's better to be lucky
      than good." Lockhart laughed as if someone had told an hilarious
      joke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes after Lockhart resumed walking. Then he
      smirked, pulled a book from his pouch, sat down, and began reading.
      He surreptitiously pressed his wand against a scrap of parchment
      he'd dropped a moment earlier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny frowned, "Are you forfeiting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm still here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you aren't ready. You aren't even standing up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just do what you've got to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's not a fair fight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, you never had a chance. Blame Lockhart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny scowled. As soon as Lockhart announced the beginning of
      the first match, Ginny cast a somnium while dodging. Harry ignored
      her and turned a page.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny sighed and walked up to him, with her wand pointed at his
      head. Harry raised his arm in front of his face. Ginny called "Ma
      Ha Su", then yelped and dropped her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up, "That counts as a disarm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's next opponent introduced himself as Mike the Hufflepuff.
      Harry didn't remember him participating in an army the previous
      year and decided to stick with the same tactic. It was a calculated
      risk, as an upperclassman could potentially cast something that
      would win. But students hadn't seen Harry do anything impossible in
      a while and he felt it was past time to remedy that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Lockhart started the match, Mike immediately cast protego
      then expelliarmus. The bright pulse of magic struck Harry directly
      in the chest but reflected back exactly along its initial
      trajectory. While the magic flew back toward him, Mike tried to
      think of something better to cast while anticipating the spell
      dissipating against his shield. Unfortunately for him, it was his
      own spell, and he either forgot or didn't know to alter his shield
      harmonics. His wand flew across the room as his shield dropped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry easily caught it and tossed it back, smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next, Cedric stood across from Harry, "That's interesting; I've
      never seen a shielded cloak reflect curses like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, "It's a useful property of mutually perpendicular
      mirrors. Actually, one of the first experiments that muggles left
      on the moon-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric continued, "But I wonder what its overload limit is? I
      guess I'll have to find out the hard way. That should make this
      match more interesting, at least. And thanks for that; dueling
      younger students so far has just felt <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled and stood up, "I don't think you'd have a problem
      overloading the shielding. Or dodging the ricochets. Even with the
      cloak, I know I can't beat you in a normal duel..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric's disappointment showed, "That's too bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart called the start of the third match and Cedric
      immediately cast a multi-layered protego shield. Harry gestured
      with his left hand, calling "Evard's Black Tentacles!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Six tentacles sprouted from the floor <em class="calibre7">inside</em> Cedric's
      shield, wrapping around his torso, wrists, and angles, lifting him
      off the ground and pulling the wand out of his hand. Cedric
      exclaimed, "This isn't dueling." Harry simultaneously finished,
      "...so of course I wasn't going to fight a normal duel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not even a real spell", a nearby student interjected,
      appearing offended by the seeming violation of magical rules.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure it is, you just watched me cast it. Maybe you should spend
      more time in the library. It was invented by the great wizard Gygax
      the Dungeon Master, and perfected for use in combat by Milo
      Naturalis-Viginti."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those aren't even real people!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to tell me what in Merlin's beard that was, or
      we're going to have a problem", Cedric demanded after Harry let him
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked over and lowered his voice, "That's what happens
      when I don't have to cast any spells for two matches in a row, when
      there's plenty of time to prepare a transfiguration. I transfigured
      this scrap into a thin, transparent layer covering the floor, then
      reshaped the part you were standing on into the tentacles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a massive transfiguration for a second year to shape
      that quickly even with the prep time. And more massive than you
      should have been able to hold for even fifteen seconds or so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled, "Not as massive as you'd think. They were
      inflatable, so I only transfigured the outer skin. Stretching and
      tensioning that skin made the tentacles move."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart loudly announced, "As you'd expect, many of these duels
      have been pretty one-sided. Let's try some closer match-ups. For
      example, we seem to have two undefeated second-year students. Harry
      and Draco, if you wouldn't mind stepping over here and giving us a
      demonstration."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two students stepped into an empty area in the center of the
      room, while everyone else gathered around. They watched each other
      carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart smiled, "Alright, ready... go!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't bother casting a shield, but instead quietly cast a
      variety of relatively harmless, low-powered spells as quickly as he
      could, with an occasional shield-breaker thrown in. Harry cast a
      stupify, which Draco easily side-stepped. Harry attempted to dodge
      most of the spells, but his cloak was able to reflect those he
      couldn't avoid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Draco roared, "Serpentsortia" and a large constrictor
      landed about halfway between them. They continued casting spells
      and dodging as the snake shook itself off and began closing the
      distance toward Harry. Draco continued to conjure snakes whenever
      the opportunity arose, making them smaller and putting them closer
      to Harry each time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's room to move quickly decreased as the snakes surrounded
      him and closed in. Getting frustrated, he hissed, as quietly as
      possible, "<em class="calibre7">go harasss the annoying blond child</em>", while
      subtly gesturing at Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the snakes turned and moved away, Harry dove and rolled, came
      up casting a levitation spell, which he swept from left to right,
      catching Draco's legs and knocking him on his back. A follow-up
      somnium kept him there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let out a sigh and stood up then looked around and saw
      everyone staring at him. Over the silence, one quiet voice was
      audible, saying "Go away... Please go away." Everyone turned and
      saw the half-dozen snakes backing Luna into a corner. Neville
      quickly cast a series of sleeping spells until they stopped
      moving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart called out, "Well, I think that's enough excitement for
      today. You should all get back to your common rooms for the
      night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory walked next to Draco and whispered, "You look
      surprisingly happy; you know you lost, right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter won the game he was playing and I won the game I was
      playing. But my game was better."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A few hours later, Vincent waved Daphne and Tracey into the
      room, "Mr. Malfoy was delayed. He should be here for the meeting in
      just a moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. Theodore and Millicent should be on their way from the
      common room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne walked in and sat down, while Tracey went to the desk,
      "Looks like Draco just started his homework for Transfiguration. I
      didn't picture him procrastinating more than I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looking. Oh, Draco keeps a diary. I didn't expect that
      either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop snooping", Daphne hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey turned, pushing her bag behind her back and trying to
      make the movement look casual. She stuck her tongue out at Daphne,
      while slipping the diary into the bag.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And stop acting like such a child."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine." Tracey walked over and sat down next to Daphne, "Not
      being a child is boring. So, another Silvery Slytherins meeting.
      When is this group going to do anything interesting or useful,
      anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne rolled her eyes, "If you don't understand it, why are you
      here? Anyway, it's important to improve the reputation..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The next morning, a dead unicorn was found in the Forbidden
      Forest.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
