<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 12: One Level Higher, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: One Level Higher</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Note: some of the dialog in this chapter was inspired by/stolen
      from The 7th Horcrux (s/10677106)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During his second year at Hogwarts, Harry is still concerned
      about the fate of the world, but has made significant progress:
      Hermione has obtained a phoenix and destroyed Azkaban's dementors.
      Progress toward a functional Philosopher's Stone based hospital at
      Hogwarts has stalled due to ward incompatibilities but a temporary
      solution is operational in the now-abandoned Azkaban tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprout received a cursed Hufflepuff Cup, and displayed
      uncharacteristically aggressive behavior afterwards. Moody detected
      evidence of dark magic on her but it was inconclusive. Since then,
      Moody has researched more specific spells for detecting horcrux
      effects and, as one might expect, Hermione tested positive. Draco
      found the Riddle Diary, and began plotting to amass power and
      followers for himself. Then Tracey 'borrowed' the diary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna demonstrates uncanny knowledge even though she's obviously
      not a real seer. Moody has hypothesized that Defense professor
      Gilderoy Lockhart is incompetent and relying on liquid luck for his
      accomplishments. Bellatrix is still at large and able to appear in
      public despite topping Magical Britain's most wanted list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry has a relatively long list of things he intends to
      investigate, including big picture items like Merlin's Interdict,
      prophecy, time-turner paradoxes, magic-technology interactions, and
      rescuing Dumbledore, as well as smaller scale things like looking
      into Ravenclaw's Diadem or whether the potion liquid luck is a real
      thing or a cover story. Magical interferences with technology are
      proving more difficult to pin down than he had hoped, so he has
      focused more strongly on learning arithmancy, which involves
      putting spells together to achieve novel functions.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Now come with me, help me to obtain the Stone, and I will
      resurrect Hermione Granger on your behalf. Her death has had
      unfortunate effects on you, and I would not mind undoing
      them."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Is he really going to do this? Really? There had to be a
      catch and Harry just couldn't see it. Voldemort had said that
      neither he nor any of his would harm Hermione, that her body and
      mind would be her own – why?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">There iss more work I intend to do, to give her besst
      chance of continued life. There iss old, losst ritual to ssacrifice
      magical creature, transsfer magical nature to ssubject.
      Limitationss are great. Transsfer iss temporary, only few hourss.
      Ssubject ssometimess diess when transsfer wearss off. But Sstone
      will make permanent. Girl-child sshall gain troll'ss power of
      regeneration. Transsfiguration ssicknesss iss nothing before that,
      if perchance it wass not fixed by previouss ritual. And no knife
      sshall sslay girl-child, nor cutting cursse, nor ssicknesss take
      her. Have not the tiniesst intention of letting girl-child die
      again, after going to ssuch lengthss to ressurrect her."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry swallowed. "I'm very confused." Was Voldemort
      practicing being nice? This hypothesis did not seem like a
      sufficient explanation. I'm seeing the Dark Lord Voldemort going to
      enormous lengths to resurrect Hermione Granger and keep her alive.
      It's like he thinks that his own life depends on Hermione Granger
      being alive, somehow.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I would never want you to be deprived of Hermione Granger's
      counsel and restraint, not ever while the stars yet live. Thiss
      iss, indeed, horcrux of girl-child, my ssuperior verssion." In his
      other hand appeared a parchment. "Thiss iss ritual for
      ressurrecting her, if it musst be done again. Insstructionss are
      honesst, no trapss. Remember that girl-child'ss sspirit cannot
      float free like ghosst, Ressurrection Sstone iss my horcrux, not
      herss. Do not losse her horcrux, or her sspirit may be trapped
      within it."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Dark Lord was now regarding Harry with a grim look.
      "When girl-child died, wass in company of sschool'ss Sseer, heard
      prophecy sspoken that you would become force of vasst desstruction.
      You would become threat beyond imagination, beyond apocalypsse.
      That iss why I went to ssuch lengthss to undo my killing of
      girl-child, keep it undone."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry's voice went up an octave, "I really really wouldn't
      do that, seriously!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Ssilence, fool. Remain ssilent unlesss given leave by me to
      sspeak. Keep your wand pointed down and do not raisse it unlesss
      told. Elsse you die upon the sspot, and mark that I ssaid that in
      Parsseltongue."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Today we are doing Merlin's work, my Death Eaters. Yes!
      Before us stands a great danger, who in his blundering folly has
      been prophesied to wreak destruction such as even I can scarcely
      imagine. You will swear, Harry Potter, not to destroy the world, to
      take no risks when it comes to not destroying the world. Unless
      this very Vow itself is somehow leading into the destruction of the
      world, in which case, Harry Potter, you must ignore it in that
      particular regard. You will not trust yourself alone in making such
      a determination, you must confide honestly and fully in your
      trusted friend, and see if that one agrees."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry awoke from the nightmare, groaning loudly. He now
      understood that there was a terrible flaw in the vow Voldemort had
      designed: Hermione was a single point of failure. Astrophysics
      implied that the world would inevitably end. Dumbledore's final
      message implied that Harry would have to hasten its end in order to
      save humanity. That couldn't happen without Hermione's agreement,
      therefore she was just as necessary as he was to guarantee
      humanity's long-term survival.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Granted, Voldemort had made Hermione's death as unlikely as
      possible, but Earth's life expectancy was in the billions of years.
      Over that timescale, the normal definition of improbability becomes
      meaningless. And her death wasn't even the only apocalyptic
      scenario. Harry himself had become very dementor resistant, but
      didn't know whether Hermione was equally protected. And apparently
      it was also to suffer permanent psychological damage from the
      cruciatus curse or due to time-turner misuse. And of course, having
      a horcrux didn't protect someone from total obliviation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or did it? Harry had thought about that method of attack within
      a few hours of learning of the existence of Voldemort's horcrux
      network. How credible was the conclusion that Voldemort had never
      thought of it? Especially when the previous horcrux spell's
      explicit purpose was the preservation of memories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had no idea how memories propagated through the horcrux
      network. He had no reason to believe there weren't safeguards
      against passing obliviation or memory charms to the horcruxen. If
      putting his horcrux spell on the resurrection stone gave Voldemort
      the ability to call up his own ghost, would putting his horcrux
      spell on top of the original horcrux spell give him the ability to
      recover the memories in that horcrux? Same question for a vial
      containing a pensieve compatible memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned again. Such a system, once in place, wouldn't be
      merely a safety device: it could be used deliberately. Occlumency
      involved allowing telepathy to reach a fictional mind, rather than
      the real one. Occlumency had won the arms race against legilimency
      and would even fool veritaserum. But was the status quo really that
      solid? Harry had wondered if wizards ever tried using a confundus,
      muggle drugs, or even sleep deprivation to prevent someone from
      retaining the mental discipline to create an occlumency barrier.
      What would happen if someone were obliviated of their occlumency
      training? And of course Parseltongue was immune to occlumency, as
      was the Mirror. Other artifacts, such as Sorting Hat or the Elder
      Wand, may share that ability. But obliviating or memory charming
      one's self permanently would have to successfully fool such things,
      because it would no longer really involve fooling them; the new
      memories would be the truth as far as the mind in question knew.
      So, with an advanced horcrux, Voldemort could memory charm his
      brain as necessary, effectively using his host as a higher level of
      occlumency barrier with the ability to fool methods intended to
      penetrate ordinary occlumency, then recover his previous memories
      from the horcrux.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That made everything Voldemort had said in Parseltongue suspect.
      Voldemort would likely have applied the minimum number of memory
      charms necessary to accomplish his goal, to minimize the chances of
      that physical iteration of himself doing something contrary to his
      real goals. The natural candidate was the alleged prophecy, because
      that single memory was allegedly the motive for most of Voldemort's
      actions that night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had extensively researched the nature of prophecies and
      learned that they almost never include proper names, or specific
      useful details like times or places. That Dumbledore had been using
      such things successfully... it would have been surprising if he'd
      done that without becoming a bit nuts. If Voldemort had heard a
      real prophecy, he should not have been so convinced that it was
      about Harry, rather than someone else, such as Voldemort himself.
      At the mirror, Voldemort had been certain that Dumbledore would put
      more value on Harry's life than on the combined outcome of
      preserving his own life plus defeating Voldemort. This implied that
      Voldemort had known about the prophecy Dumbledore had heard about
      Harry ending the world but not life. Therefore, Voldemort must have
      replaced his memory of that prophecy with a prophecy of his own
      invention after defeating Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So Voldemort had changed his own memory of the prophecies at
      play such that he would try to kill Harry. He'd probably also set
      himself up to make irrational mistakes, most notably allowing Harry
      to hold onto his wand. Perhaps the plan had been the same one
      Voldemort had articulated earlier: for Harry to publicly defeat
      Voldemort, securing good publicity and future political favor. But
      would Voldemort have been that certain that Harry could defeat a
      dumber but still dangerous Voldemort? That wasn't something he
      could've left to chance. So obviously, he didn't. He could've given
      one or more of the Death Eaters special orders, but that wouldn't
      have been enough. He could've had another host hiding nearby or
      even under one of the death-eater robes, just as he'd worn a white
      robe while fighting for SPHEW. Harry had watched him cast a
      powerful spell on Snape, the effects of which had never actually
      been explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It all made sense. Well, almost. It still left the original
      issue: why had Voldemort made some of Harry's future actions depend
      on Hermione's judgment? Actually, why revive Hermione at all? Was
      it just because Voldemort doing something out of character would
      help sell the prophecy story? And on the subject of 'in character',
      if Voldemort had feared Harry would end the world, wouldn't he have
      made Harry vow to obtain Voldemort's own assent before doing
      something risky? It's not like Voldemort would've cared if
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> was the single point of failure; if he were gone, he
      wouldn't have cared what else happened because his plan would've
      already failed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry broke out in a cold sweat. Hermione had been surprisingly
      absent this school-year, spending an excessive amount of time alone
      either 'too busy' or 'too tired' to participate in various
      activities. To Voldemort, the only option better than forcing Harry
      to consult with him would be forcing Harry to consult with someone
      he trusted, but who was secretly controlled by Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before he could suppress it, a mental image came to Harry,
      showing Hermione find an empty room, cast a series of privacy
      charms, then sit quietly, drooling on herself. The troll strength
      and unicorn reflexes suddenly made sense: Voldemort wouldn't want
      to be trapped in a physically and magically weak body, so he
      provided some upgrades. And it explained the horcrux he made for
      her: it had made it impossible to check whether she was under the
      influence of Voldemort's horcruxen. She was the perfect host.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Hermione was still alive. Azkaban proved that... assuming
      Harry could trust those memories; that Harry hadn't destroyed the
      dementors himself and then been obliviated. No, that was too
      paranoid. Her phoenix was proof. She was alive; he'd just need to
      find a way to exorcise an immortal dark wizard and she'd be
      fine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A part of Harry interrupted this train of though and told
      himself not to panic; that he didn't have any real evidence for any
      of this. The rest of his mind acknowledged, then disregarded this
      thought; that was exactly what the wishful thinking part of his
      mind would say. And it just made so much sense. Either way, it was
      a scenario he needed to figure out a way to solve. Harry picked up
      his watch, checked the time, and thought for five minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed slowly. He wouldn't be able to tell anyone about
      any of this. Moody or Bones would want to permanently kill Hermione
      if they thought it would stop Voldemort's plan. Ignoring the
      obvious moral arguments, that was unacceptable because Hermione was
      necessary to humanity's future, and he didn't think they'd be able
      to appropriately weigh consequences that may not materialize for
      thousands or even millions of years. Not that they'd succeed
      anyway; if Harry told them and they reacted at all, the most likely
      outcome was that he would wake up obliviated of the last few days
      and Moody, Bones, and McGonagall would be dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's best idea was to somehow find and destroy all of
      Voldemort's horcruxen without Voldemort realizing it and without
      Voldemort making new ones faster than Harry destroyed them. To call
      this impractical was an astronomical understatement; Harry's
      best... well, only... idea to accomplish this was to destroy the
      world and start over. Which would require Hermione's okay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't see any possibility of falling back asleep in the
      near future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed and decided to go out and watch the stars. He climbed
      the stairs from his office to the roof, cast a warming charm on
      himself, and laid on his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some time later, he noticed an unexpected light in his
      peripheral vision and turned to identify it. He determined that it
      was coming from the astronomy tower a few seconds before the light
      went out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mildly curious, Harry got a broom and slowly approached the
      astronomy tower, navigating mostly by the outline of the castle
      against the sky in the moonless darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Hello, Luna. I guess I shouldn't be surprised that person
      out here at night turned out to be the one person I knew came out
      here at night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you shouldn't. It's more surprising that you're out on a
      broom at night. I don't think that's entirely safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I flew slowly so it wouldn't have been too serious if I bumped
      into part of the castle. What else would be dangerous out
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dragons, for one. Or any especially annoyed hippogriffs. Or
      thestrals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll be sure to watch out for those. Although I don't think
      thestrals can actually fly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless that's what they want you to think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh. I'll have to look into it. Who's 'they'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. That's always the question... I suppose it's not
      surprising after all; flying out here isn't any more dangerous than
      your usual hobbies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to have to explain that. Dangerous hobbies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a secret that you've been working with charmed
      objects. You should be more careful with them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Charming objects isn't normally considered dangerous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It depends on who charms them. That's how my mother died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I didn't know. I'm sorry about your mother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The aurors said she died researching spells because they didn't
      find any charmed objects nearby, but they're wrong. Her notes were
      vague and the aurors found a trace of unknown dark magic, so they
      assumed she cast something bad. But that was really from the
      artifact she found."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few minutes of platitudes and silence, Harry asked, "So,
      are there any astronomical objects you specifically wanted to see
      tonight? Recently, I've spent more time looking for satellites.
      It's nice, while I'm here in magical Britain, to get a visual
      reminder that there's a technologically advanced civilization
      nearby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's nice to look at the stars and imagine being far away from
      here. Though I think I like watching the stars better here at
      Hogwarts. They're more alive here than I'm used to seeing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Alive'? Last year, a centaur told me that they make
      predictions or prophecies or something based on how they see
      starlight flicker. Do you get information from the stars like
      centaurs do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know; I've never been a centaur."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, of course not; I meant... 'Being far away'? You think about
      getting away from here? Is something bothering you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna shrugged, "Many of the people here are less pleasant and
      enlightened than one would hope of intelligent magical beings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, "Can you be more specific?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't need to worry about it. I suppose it's not that
      important in the big picture."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If people are bothering you, at least that's a problem I know
      how to work with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna nodded, "True."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was still pre-dawn, but light was visible over the horizon
      when McGonagall's patronus came to Harry and announced an emergency
      meeting. He arrived at her office a few minutes later. McGonagall,
      Bones, Moody, and Hermione were already seated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall explained quickly, "A unicorn has been killed. Mr.
      Hagrid is on his way to give us the details."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The seat at the end of the table facing everyone was clearly
      intended for Hagrid. The only other seat open was next to Hermione.
      Harry sat, carefully controlling his breathing as sensing her
      magical aura triggered his fight-or-flight response rather than the
      usual sense of comfort. He tried to neither look to his left, nor
      make it obvious that he was deliberately not looking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seconds later, the door opened again, admitting Hagrid and
      Lockhart. McGonagall waved Hagrid to the remaining chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart spoke first, "So the first thing we-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones interrupted, "Why exactly are you here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart looked surprised but quickly recovered, "Uh... I'm the
      Hogwarts Defense Against the Dark Arts professor and you won't find
      anyone who has more extensive practical knowledge of or broader
      experience with dangerous magical creatures. I happened to overhear
      some things about the current situation, so when I happened to run
      into Hagrid on his way here, I thought my expertise would be
      appreciated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones shook her head, "Mr. Hagrid, please have a seat, and tell
      us what happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I got up to walk Fang and feed the thestrals this
      morning-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody asked, "About what time was that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe 5:00? Thestrals like to eat while it's still dark, so I
      always bring them-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones interrupted, "Okay, let's skip ahead. When did you first
      notice something wrong?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Fang started barking and ran off, but he does that
      sometimes. Aren't many things in the forest that scare old Fang.
      Anyway, I was following him, and I that's when I saw some silvery
      reflections on the ground. I could tell right away what it was, and
      knew Fang had found a unicorn, either hurt or dead. When I caught
      up with him, it was terrible. Another unicorn mostly eaten, just
      like last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody stared at Hagrid, "What are the chances your pet killed
      the unicorn?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid's head snapped around to look at Moody, startled,
      "Huh?... Oh, Fang would never do such a thing. For one thing, he's
      well fed and doesn't need to hunt. For another, he'd never catch a
      unicorn. They're too fast for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall asked, "Hagrid, what do you suspect was
      responsible?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er... nobody ever caught what was eating them last year. It's
      probably back, right? I never saw the sense of bringing in so many
      unicorns this year, with whatever it was still out there, but I
      figure Dumbledore must've had a plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall tried again, "How many things are even capable of
      taking down a unicorn?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart jumped in, "I suspect a nundu. Coincidentally, I've
      been looking forward to hunting one for quite some time, and am
      familiar with all the latest literature on the most effective
      tactics. I'd be happy to lead a group of..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He trailed off as he became aware of Moody staring at him
      intensely. After a few seconds of silence, Moody spoke, "There's
      never been a nundu attack in Britain. As far as anyone knows,
      there's never been a nundu in Britain." Lockhart nodded and opened
      his mouth to speak, but Moody demanded, "Did you bring one
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart shut his mouth quickly, paused, then answered, "Of
      course not. Someone would have to be totally irresponsible, or a
      complete idiot, to bring such a dangerous animal near a school." He
      smiled at Moody, "And of course, if I could work with those animals
      so easily, I'd have written about it. My skill as a nundu-whisperer
      would be common knowledge across the magical world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you directly or indirectly responsible for the death of any
      unicorns?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! Of course not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody grunted, but continued to watch Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall repeated, "Hagrid, what would be fast enough to catch
      a unicorn?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, the fastest things out there are the phoenix and the
      dementor, b-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Things that would take a bite out of a large animal", Bones
      snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, a nundu would, of course. Or a quintaped. And I suppose a
      hydra or dragon or occamy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall sighed, "Anything that would live around
      Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I a centaur could probably hunt one, not that they ever
      would. I don't know, maybe if a hippogriff got hungry enough...
      Those things are quick in a powered dive. Maybe a troll or a
      werewolf. I don't know that they could outrun one, but they might
      be able to trap one somehow. Though it's the wrong moon phase for
      werewolves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart interjected, "If a unicorn were injured somehow, or
      trapped, for example in a devil's snare or acromantula web, any
      number of things could finish it off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid nodded, "Or I suppose a large snake could ambush one,
      though not many reptiles would be out hunting before spring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry queried, "Not many or not any?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione turned to Bones and Moody and asked, "How sure are we
      that an animal was involved? I've read that dying dark wizards will
      often try to kill unicorns for their blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid frowned, "I don't think they'd take large bites.
      Something was eating it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry processed the simultaneous series of objections that
      arose, which resolved into a decision to remain silent.
      Fortunately, or unfortunately, Moody stated, "Unless a dark wizard
      were covering up their activities."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones added, "Or if it were scavenged after it died. Mr. Hagrid,
      have you seen anything else unusual in the forests? Specifically
      anything that would indicate the presence of someone who doesn't
      belong there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, the Forbidden Forest is never quite the same as the last
      time you saw it, but I haven't seen anything I'd call unexpected. I
      certainly haven't seen any dark wizards out there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones concluded, "Okay, thank you Mr. Hagrid, you may go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Hagrid stood and moved to the door, Lockhart walked forward,
      clearly intending to take the vacated seat at the table. The chair
      twisted in on itself and disappeared before he reached it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones stared him down, "You may go, Mr. Lockhart." He
      reluctantly walked through the doorway and the door shut itself
      behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones sighed, "So I assume we all agree that this is Voldemort's
      doing, correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry replied, "Well, it could be something else..." He trailed
      off and sighed upon seeing everyone else nodding in agreement with
      Bones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody asked Harry directly, "Is there anything else we should
      know, Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if Voldemort is killing unicorns, it means he needs
      unicorn blood, which implies his body, I mean his host's body, is
      dying. If we assume he was possessing Professor Sprout earlier this
      year, then he has the ability to move from person to person
      somehow. He claimed he could use the Resurrection Stone to move
      around as a ghost and possess anyone he wanted, but at the time he
      was trying to convince me that he'd immediately return if I killed
      him. Otherwise he would need someone to find a horcrux in order to
      possess them. Anyway, if he's already moving between hosts, unicorn
      blood would be redundant and killing unicorns would unnecessarily
      reveal his presence." As he said it, the thought completed in his
      head: unless Voldemort suspects we already know he's here, and
      killed the unicorn just to give the impression that he needed its
      blood. Everyone would falsely conclude he had a weakness and was
      not, in fact, using a host whose blood already incorporated unicorn
      healing factors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody asked, "So what's our next move? Voldemort could be
      possessing anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely he'd be more likely to possess some people that others",
      Bones argued. "A dark wizard would be most likely to possess a
      teacher, due to their higher magical strength and their privileges
      with Hogwarts' wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless that constraint made finding him too obvious", Moody
      retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones answered, "In that case, he'd want to possess someone with
      as much magical power and muscle strength as possible (which
      implies a 6th or 7th year with experience dueling, etc.). A wealthy
      family, noble or politically connected would also be useful in case
      he were caught doing something illegal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione suggested, "That could mean Cedric Diggory or Robert
      Jugson. I've heard Jugson has been acting strangely this year,
      though that could be explained by his... incident... earlier this
      year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody looked unimpressed, "So that's even easier to narrow down
      than assuming he's using a professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "A smart dark wizard might play at the next
      level and deliberately choose someone as weak as possible, like a
      first year; just to do the opposite of what we'd expect. And a
      smarter dark wizard might choose someone as average as possible;
      someone whose name most of us wouldn't even know. But strength,
      skill, and money would still be valuable, so they'd choose between
      a more average or above average individual based on how much they
      intended to hide or to fight. In that case, we could rule out
      anyone below average. Though a dark wizard operating at the level
      above that may deliberately pick someone below average to escape
      that scrutiny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So basically it could be anyone", Moody repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody continued, "We need to search the school; try to find his
      horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall sighed, "The school is huge and someone could easily
      lose something here for years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones added, "It would also give away what we know; make it
      obvious that we're looking for something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody nodded, "Okay, I propose that just before Christmas break,
      we tell everyone that there's an illness, a dragon-pox outbreak or
      something. So Pomfrey has to scan them before they go home, to
      prevent the disease from spreading. I'll polyjuice as Pomfrey and
      scan them for evidence of possession. Some disillusioned aurors can
      scan their luggage for dark magic. Then, after the students leave,
      we have some time for aurors to search the dorms, common rooms,
      offices, and commonly used classrooms. We can have the elves look
      everywhere else for anything that doesn't belong and bring it to
      the aurors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones replied, "I can't imagine Voldemort being caught by
      something that easy, but it could reveal something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall objected, "You're proposing to detect Voldemort in a
      group of students. There won't be any way to keep students safe
      when he starts fighting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody nodded, "Of course we wouldn't try to arrest him there;
      we'll signal aurors to follow anyone who tests positive and then
      call everyone to help bring him down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones concluded, "That sounds like a good starting point. Moody,
      work out the details, and pick some aurors to learn the necessary
      detection spells. I think we're finished here for today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones and Moody flooed away, Harry and Hermione walked toward
      the door. "Mr. Potter, a moment", McGonagall said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry asked, "Okay. Actually, I've been meaning to ask you: Has
      Hogwarts ever been struck by lightning, or do you know of any
      spells that protect it from lightning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? I've no idea. Why would you want to know that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the simplest reason I've thought of for why anyone to ward
      the castle in a way that affects electricity. Wizards wouldn't
      understand the physics behind what they were trying to accomplish,
      so such wards would likely be trial-and-error and do complex and
      unpredictable things, some of which would be helpful, and some of
      which would only cause side effects."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I said, I don't know what the castle does with lightning.
      Maybe it's protected somehow or maybe it just heals itself
      afterward. Anyway, I asked you here because I've heard you've been
      using Parseltongue in public, which I've warned you against doing.
      I suppose you may have thought out all of the possible outcomes in
      advance, and decided it was worth risking; is that the case? And if
      so, what were you hoping to achieve?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't believe anyone should have been able to hear me speak
      it. Well, except I accidentally let Draco hear it last year. But I
      didn't know Parseltongue was a thing at the time, so that shouldn't
      count."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been informed that you were seen commanding several snakes
      to attack a student at Lockhart's dueling practice. Have I been
      misinformed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, partially. There were quite a few snakes closing in on
      me, and I did tell them to leave me alone, but no one would have
      heard that. If I looked through the library, I'm sure I could find
      a dozen spells that would repel snakes just as effectively. And
      it's not like that would be a surprising thing for me to have done.
      Concluding that I have a rare snake-related ability wouldn't be
      rational. And I certainly didn't command snakes to attack
      anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes widened in sudden comprehension, "<em class="calibre7">Draco</em>
      sicced those snakes on me. He <em class="calibre7">planned</em> that. He must have
      had people start a rumor that I'm a parselmouth too. Of course,
      that's no excuse. It was just a school exercise, and I should have
      let myself lose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why didn't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have a good answer for that. I thought I'd learned that
      lesson after the first few times, but apparently it's something I
      still need to work on."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey strode into the Great Hall, eyes bright, head held high,
      and a hint of a smile on her face. She walked just quickly enough
      for the black cloak she wore over her robes to trail behind her
      like a cape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reaching the Slytherin table, she looked around suspiciously,
      then announced to the nearby second years, "Dumbledore is a far
      greater dark lord than I could ever hope to be. He's always fifty
      steps ahead of everyone else, so far ahead that once his enemies
      realize what his plan is, it's usually too late. Our best hope is
      to throw him off balance by planning zero steps ahead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory frowned, "Uh, Dumbledore's gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or that's just what he wants you to think. <em class="calibre7">I'm</em> going
      to be ready for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pansy shook her head, "What is wrong with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent grunted in agreement and added, "You were already
      annoying. When did you become a morning person too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey pointed at Pansy, "I've already taken your soul, but
      don't think that's the worst I can do to you. I could break you and
      rebuild you into a loyal minion, but I doubt you're useful enough
      for it to be worth the effort. Though I suppose I could lock you up
      and ransom you back to your family if you remain annoying. Be gone
      from my sight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pansy stared at her for a second, then got up and walked
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After she was out of earshot, Daphne laughed, "Okay, that was
      pretty good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey turned to Daphne and declared, "So, you wish to join me.
      Your foresight is commendable, and I assure you that, if you choose
      to be my minion, you shall share in my eventual glory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne scoffed, "I'm a Greengrass. Greengrasses are not
      minions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey frowned, "You will come to rue this day, in time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore grumbled, "You're seriously not going to play Dark Lady
      Tracey again this year are you? I was hoping you'd outgrown
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet, you. I <em class="calibre7">will</em> destroy your soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore rolled his eyes, "I was in Chaos Legion, remember? We
      were the ones who helped you prank Pansy the last time. You can't
      use the same prank on me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne changed the subject, "You were in the common room late
      last night. When did you go to sleep?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I didn't sleep. I had more important things to do, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how are you even awake right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey waved dismissively, "I've grown beyond such mundane
      concerns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cast innervate on myself whenever I got tired."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think that's a good idea. Humans need sleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and I think we've all established that I'm better than
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise announced, "Shh, he's here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They turned to watch Harry enter the hall. A small group of
      snakes followed him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Millicent shook her head, "It's like he's not even trying to
      keep people from thinking he's evil anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey agreed, "I fear that Harry may be the most evil of us
      all. That is concerning since I am the next Dark Lady."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise chuckled, "Compared to him, you're an amateur. But you
      could ask if he's looking for someone to be his sidekick slash
      comic relief."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey snapped, "You'll learn the consequences of such
      insolence." She then looked thoughtful, "But somehow you managed to
      include a decent point in your stupid comment, so I'll show you
      mercy for now. I should propose an alliance with Harry. For that to
      work out in my favor, I think I'm going to need some liquid luck.
      Does anyone have any blackmail material on Felthorne?" She looked
      around expectantly. "No? I guess we'll have to invent some."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey looked around again, while no one volunteered
      suggestions. She looked briefly at Draco, then turned to Daphne.
      She opened her mouth to say something, then stopped and stared at
      Draco for another moment before turning back again. "Oh Merlin, I'm
      pretty sure Lucius managed to clone himself. I wonder if he knew a
      spell to transfer his memories into the clone too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne replied, "I'm... Wait, what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked over at Tracey and growled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise stared at Draco, amused, "Did you just growl?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco grunted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grunting from a Malfoy? I'm shocked. You're lucky your father
      isn't around anymore." Draco scowled at Blaise and began to stand
      up. "By the 12th ruling of the 31st Wizengamot, if he saw you
      acting like this he could have disowned-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco vaulted onto the table, then dove across, tackling Blaise
      onto the ground and throwing punches at his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A series of stunners from multiple directions quickly ended the
      fight. McGonagall and Flitwick hovered them out of the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey announced, "Blinding fury is not conducive to good
      decision-making. I think I'll hold off on offering Draco a chance
      to become one of my minions."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
