<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 13: Shell Game, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Shell Game</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During his second year at Hogwarts, Harry is still concerned
      about the fate of the world, but has made significant progress:
      Hermione has obtained a phoenix and destroyed Azkaban's dementors.
      Progress toward a functional Philosopher's Stone based hospital at
      Hogwarts has stalled due to ward incompatibilities but a temporary
      solution is operational in the now-abandoned Azkaban tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprout received a cursed Hufflepuff Cup, and displayed
      uncharacteristically aggressive behavior afterwards. Moody detected
      evidence of dark magic on her but it was inconclusive. Since then,
      Moody has researched more specific spells for detecting horcrux
      effects and, as one might expect, Hermione tested positive. Harry
      has begun to suspect something darker: that Voldemort's plan had
      been to pretend to fail while preparing a powerful and immortal
      host for himself who Harry would trust implicitly (and explicitly,
      given the unbreakable vow).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco found the Riddle Diary, and began plotting to amass power
      and followers for himself. Then Tracey 'borrowed' the diary. Luna
      demonstrates uncanny knowledge even though she's obviously not a
      real seer. Moody has hypothesized that Defense professor Gilderoy
      Lockhart is incompetent and relying on liquid luck for his
      accomplishments. Bellatrix is still at large and able to appear in
      public despite topping Magical Britain's most wanted list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry has a relatively long list of things he intends to
      investigate, including big picture items like Merlin's Interdict,
      prophecy, time-turner paradoxes, magic-technology interactions, and
      rescuing Dumbledore, as well as smaller scale things like looking
      into Ravenclaw's Diadem or whether the potion liquid luck is a real
      thing or a cover story. Magical interferences with technology are
      proving more difficult to pin down than he had hoped, so he has
      focused more strongly on learning arithmancy, which involves
      putting spells together to achieve novel functions.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry entered the Great Hall, trying to ignore the group of
      snakes gathering behind him. He sat at the Ravenclaw table and
      began filling a plate with food. All nearby conversations had
      stopped as people stared at him, but Harry chose to ignore that
      too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anthony looked around at the others, and seeing no reaction,
      spoke first, "All right, I'll be that guy. Harry, what's with the
      army of snakes? How worried should we be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "I don't know. I don't know where they came from.
      I don't know why they're following me. I don't know what they'd be
      doing if they weren't following me. But I do know that if I tell
      them to leave me alone, everyone will blame me for whatever they do
      afterwards. I didn't ask them to follow me around, but it's almost
      certainly safer for everyone if they stay near me than if they go
      anywhere else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few minutes, Harry asked the students nearby, "Does
      anyone know about anyone who's been bothering Luna?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terry scowled, "What do you care? You set snakes on her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes, "Do you actually believe that? For what
      possible reason would I have done that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terry shrugged, "Who knows what you're planning? Maybe it was a
      misdirection so next week you can send snakes after, I don't know,
      Justin and no one will suspect you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, "That's insane. How would making people
      suspicious of me make people less suspicious? And why would I
      attack Justin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know! Why'd you attack Luna?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head again, "Your argument is circular."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, your argument is too thin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does that even mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This conversation still means something? I thought we were just
      saying words now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Around this time, they had both noticed that everyone else was
      silently staring across the room. Harry turned to see Draco and
      Blaise fighting. As McGonagall and Flitwick carried them out, Harry
      quickly got up and moved after them. The snakes followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey saw Harry and moved to intercept, "Hey, Harry! I'm
      formally offering you a position in my Darke (with an 'E'!) Army.
      Once we've taken over, you can be the leader of... um,
      Hogsmeade."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at her and forced a serious expression, "I think
      I'll hold out for a better offer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was just my opening. There's room for negotiation. What
      would you be expecting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll start getting interested when you stop talking about
      cities and start talking about continents. And important positions
      in the world government."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is no world government."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you wanted to be a Dark Lady."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey nodded, "You're right of course. And I assume you're
      looking for something more than Antarctica. There are probably
      about as many people living in Hogsmeade as there are living there.
      How does South America sound? And, um, Minister of Global Muggle
      Affairs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, "I was thinking more of Minister of Health,
      Science, and/or Magical Research... There are wizards in
      Antarctica?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I used to have a pen pal there. It sounds great, actually:
      there's only one little spot where you have to worry about the
      Statute of Secrecy at all. And there's no age limit for wands or
      any underage magic rules. Anyway, I'm willing to promise you all of
      those positions, and not just because you're the only one who would
      both want them and be competent to do them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded thoughtfully, "That makes sense. Of course, before
      I commit to anything, I'll have to see your ten-year plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten... years...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded again, "Honestly, I have some doubts about your
      commitment. You can't take over the world without a well
      thought-out plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have a ten-year plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "I've got the high-level outline. Many of the
      details are still hazy. It's my hundred-year plan that needs work.
      It's even less detailed than my thousand-year plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thousand-year? So you've found a way to become immortal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know there are some methods out there. I'm confident
      something will be available to me when I need it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Part of our plan should be to find all the spells and artifacts
      related to all of those methods as soon as possible. After all, one
      can never be too immortal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's very true", Harry agreed. "Anyway, I'm going to go find
      out what's going on with Draco. You didn't happen to notice
      anything before he went postal, did you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm, I was pondering if he were a clone of Lucius and the
      corollary of whether Lucius might have figured out a way to
      transfer his mind or memories into a clone. And I suppose he was
      less verbal than usual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh... Okay, I'll look into it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey looked around, and muttered quietly, "Neville... he could
      definitely be useful." She thought for a moment, then walked over,
      "Merlin bless the simple interactions of Hufflepuffs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville", she said sweetly, "Do you want to be friends?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, sure. Assuming we weren't already..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One condition. You have to swear a magical oath that you will
      never, ever harm me no matter what I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville looked mildly surprised, "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey burst into laughter. "Just kidding! Anyway, do you know
      any of the details of Harry's plan to take over the world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He frowned, trying and failing to determine the nature of the
      conversation that had been inflicted on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before he could form an answer, Tracey announced, "Kidding
      again!" and walked away quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville shook his head, "I'll never understand girls."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry reached the medical wing Moody was already scanning
      Draco. Draco awoke and Moody paused and stared down at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few seconds Draco yelled, "The Wizengamot will have you
      in Azkaban when they find you've used legilimency on a me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I very much doubt that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They would never tolerate someone violating the mental privacy
      of a member of a noble house!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody turned to McGonagall, "No evidence of dark magic, but he's
      had a huge number of memory modifications. Multiple charms per day
      over at least the past month."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco began, "I demand-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Malfoy", McGonagall interrupted, "You have been memory
      charmed by an unknown individual for an unknown purpose. I would
      think you would want to know what is going on and to have Auror
      Moody hunt down whoever is responsible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For all I know, Moody is the one applying memory charms.
      I'll-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assure you that he did not. This was the act of a criminal
      who has ill intentions toward you and likely toward the school as
      well. The Hogwarts board of governors will not tolerate an agent of
      a dark wizard with an unknown agenda to stay at Hogwarts. If you
      don't allow Auror Moody to determine the nature of those memory
      charms, you will not be allowed to remain here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you think I'm going to allow Dumbledore's followers access
      to my mind-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry interjected, "Does it have to be Moody? If that's the
      issue, we could find someone neutral, like Mr. Bester."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why would you suggest him, Potter? A secret alliance-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Petrificus totalus", Moody suddenly cast. "Stupid wanker just
      tried to draw on me." Moody gestured at Draco's hand, which was
      frozen in the act of pulling a wand from his robes. "No one
      searched him for a second wand? Well, luckily now he's awake, has
      his eyes open, and can't refuse legilimency." Moody began staring
      into Draco's eyes before Harry or McGonagall could react.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later Moody reported, "The last memory charm takes
      place in Hogwarts... and depicts the killing of Abigail Myrtle...
      He cast a spell first and then some kind of magic transfered to
      whatever he was holding... He never looked at it, but it feels
      fairly light and has a flat bottom... Stupify."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's eyes became unfocused but he didn't move otherwise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They followed Moody into another room, where he cast a set of
      privacy charms. Then a charm which made the snakes following Harry
      immolate. "I don't trust those things; I don't trust magical
      constructs in general, and there's no reason for those to be here.
      Also, you look ridiculous leading a flock of snakes like some
      demented Slytherin shepherd. Anyway... Someone was memory charming
      Draco to think he was Voldemort. And they knew what they were
      doing; that memory was consistent with what I know of the horcrux
      ritual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall frowned, "So you think Voldemort <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> us
      to believe Draco was possessed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry answered, "This actually sounds consistent with the basic
      horcrux spell (which is almost certainly what Moody is familiar
      with). It involves a device that stores memories and writes them
      into the victim's mind. The result is less of a possession and more
      of a hybrid personality, which gradually becomes more similar to
      the dark wizard as their memories are merged. The advanced horcrux
      ritual involves something more like possession but is more secret,
      so it's unlikely Moody has read any description of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody sighed, "So we might have a horcruxed wizard (who would
      seem to be under the imperius) using memory charms on Draco, a
      horcruxed wizard (who appears to be memory charmed) using the
      imperius on Sprout, or two Voldemorts with totally different
      abilities and possibly different plans and goals?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe that's an accurate summary of our current level of
      ignorance. But Occam's Razor suggests we assume one agent is
      responsible until we have evidence otherwise, and all of the
      advanced horcruxen should have been obliviated along with
      Voldemort", Harry gestured at the ring, "so I'd bet on option 2.
      But our response is pretty much the same regardless: find and
      destroy a horcrux. I suggest we proceed as if it were an outbreak:
      quarantine everyone who shows symptoms (in this case, violent
      behavior, evidence of dark magic, or evidence of memory charms),
      and check everyone they had close contact with for symptoms."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne sighed, "Tell me again: why are we sneaking into the
      library at night?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey smiled brightly and gestured with the diary she was
      carrying for emphasis, "I told you; there's information there
      that's critical to the fulfillment of my master plan for world
      domination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, really... This is the forbidden section! You're seriously
      breaking into the forbidden section? That's kinda over the line,
      even for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me tell you a story: this morning I was talking to General
      Chaos. It started as just a typical dark lady-dark lord discussion
      about taking over the world and stuff. But then, suddenly he almost
      had me convinced that I'm in over my head here. Of course, that
      tricky reverse-psychology stuff only works on the weak-minded, and
      it was sloppy of him to try a plot like that on me. But regardless,
      decisive action is required."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you stop and think for a second-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey waved dismissively and pulled a pair of books off the
      shelf, "Stop thinking like a Hufflepuff. When I rule this world, I
      will give you first pick of countries to control."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne sighed again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey smirked and muttered, "No one wants to be a Hufflepuff."
      She pulled another book off the shelf and flipped through it
      quickly, almost dropping the others in the process. She then
      stacked the four books on the floor and walked down the aisle,
      pulling another few texts off the shelf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne sighed and watched the doorway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey added another armful of books to the pile and continued
      browsing. As Tracey disappeared down another aisle, Daphne heard
      footsteps echoing down the hallway and held her breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The footsteps were getting closer. Daphne looked around, trying
      not to panic, wishing for some solution to manifest itself. If this
      were a battle, her next step would be... to hide the evidence and
      escape. She stepped forward, tucked Tracey's pile of books under
      her left arm and quickly moved in the direction Tracey had
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she, and the evidence, were out of view of the doorway,
      Daphne started to feel more confident. She frowned as Tracey walked
      toward her carrying another pair of books, then scowled as Tracey
      loudly announced, "Guess what I fou-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Somnium", Tracey fell. Daphne smirked, knowing that whoever was
      coming would probably stop searching after finding an unconscious
      student.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obliviate", Daphne frowned. She didn't remember learning to
      cast that spell. She shrugged to herself; this was no time to be
      solving mysteries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She put down the stack of books and cast 'quietus' charms on her
      hands, shoes, and mouth. She put a hand on the shelf but paused and
      returned to the stack of books. She pulled out the bottom book; it
      was the diary Tracey had been carrying everywhere since she'd
      stolen it from Draco. She shook her head, then paused in the motion
      of putting it back. She was strangely hesitant to leave it behind.
      She carried it with her as she climbed the bookshelf and lied flat
      on the top. A moment later, McGonagall entered the library and
      moved toward the restricted section.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As McGonagall walked around the bookshelf, Daphne climbed down
      the opposite side and silently sprinted down the hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall quickly approached Tracey, noted the pile of books,
      and cast 'innervate'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey rubbed her eyes and sat up, "Oh, hello, headmistress.
      What's..." She looked around, "What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was my question. Why are you here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't remember."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the last thing you remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Leaving Charms class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Friday afternoon? You don't remember any of Friday evening or
      Saturday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh... that sounds like something I wouldn't have expected until
      I was older... Although drinking butter-beer and sneaking around at
      night does sound fun. I'll be annoyed if that happened and I forgot
      about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're going to see Madame Pomfrey. She'll figure out what
      happened."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall concluded, "...so now Tracey has been obliviated. I
      suspect it's the same as what happened to Draco, but whoever is
      responsible has started trying to cover their tracks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody grunted, "So we can conclude it's a professor. Call
      Lockhart in here and I'll get some answers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, the wards recorded an unauthorized obliviation, so
      it's most likely not..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was interrupted as one of the objects in the office emitted
      a high pitched siren. McGonagall tapped it with her wand and it
      became silent. "There have been two more unauthorized obliviations
      near the Great Hall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They simultaneously moved toward the door.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne casually walked toward the Gryffindor table, tapped
      Lavender's shoulder, and whispered, "I need to talk to you. Wait
      about 30 seconds and then follow me. I'll be just outside the
      doors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later, Lavender bounded excitedly through the doorway
      and whispered, "Is it a secret mission? We haven't even a quest yet
      this year, not even a boring or easy one. Will it be dangerous? Or
      will-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Confundus", Daphne pushed the diary into Lavender's hands.
      Lavender turned and walked back into the hall. A moment later, she
      returned, empty-handed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girls raised their wands at each other and simultaneously
      cast, "Obliviate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment, they blinked and looked around, then turned back
      to each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What in Merlin's hat just happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where did you come from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think my stomach just magically filled itself with food. Is
      that a real thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did I get here? Actually, what day is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall and Moody, who had arrived in time to catch part of
      this quasi-conversation, exchanged glances and escorted the girls
      to the hospital wing.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paced back and forth in his office. Despite nearly a dozen
      disillusioned or polyjuiced aurors present, and nearly all of the
      aurors in Britain prepared to time-turn to provide backup, it was
      still too dangerous for him to personally observe the hostile
      wizard detection and containment exercise (as Mad-Eye had termed
      the effort to scan the students for legilimency, memory charms and
      possession as they left for the train). He had to hide out here and
      wait for the results. And he'd been unable to convince anyone that
      Hermione should remain at Hogwarts over the break (the argument
      that she hadn't seen her parents in nearly a year had proven
      superior to anything he could make himself say out loud), so he
      strongly suspected he knew what the results would be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was convinced that Voldemort, while possessing Hermione,
      was pretending that one of his old type1 horcruxen was loose in the
      school, in order to cover up his actual presence and distract from
      his real plan. At some point, he could produce a fake (or real)
      type 1 horcrux and allow it to be discovered and destroyed, thereby
      apparently ending the current emergency. So far, this faux-crux had
      allegedly affected Draco, then Tracy, then Daphne (who's memory had
      been wiped back to before Tracey had been obliviated), then
      Lavender. Therefore it was likely that someone who knew Lavender
      (and probably also Daphne) would show traces of memory charms or
      obliviation. Maybe this person would even have a suspicious
      artifact (which would likely be destroyed before it could be
      carefully scrutinized). After that, there would be no more
      suspicions (except from Mad-Eye, who was suspicious of everything
      on principle), and Voldemort would be able to continue operating
      freely with his super-powered host.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
