<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Bonus Chapter (Omake), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17: Bonus (Omake)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">I've posted these things on Reddit, but I've decided to repost
      them here before they become lost to time. If you haven't read it,
      it's new to you.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A draft chapter from Harry's second year</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three students had been petrified. Petrified as in transfigured
      into stone. McGonagall announced that the transfiguration could be
      reversed safely with a potion, unfortunately that potion required
      some dangerous and rare ingredients that would take most of the
      school-year to prepare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's group, the Curious School Inquirers, who had taken it
      upon themselves to look into mysterious aspects of Hogwarts, had
      thus far been unable to find an explanation. Even Draco's new habit
      of carrying a muggle magnifying glass and wearing a deerstalker hat
      had proven insufficient to bring the situation into focus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried, unsuccessfully, to convince Hermione to stop trying
      to confront the mysterious dark force. While a troll's
      auto-transfiguration would likely prove immune to the effect, Harry
      couldn't avoid the obvious parallels to his method of neutralizing
      Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, like Draco, Hermione had been unable to discover what was
      going on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided to take a quick break from researching spells and
      artifacts that could cause petrification transfigurations, either
      as a primary goal or potential side effect, and look into alternate
      ways to help those who were affected. While being petrified for 6
      months wasn't nearly the worst thing that could happen to someone,
      those students would ultimately have to repeat the year. Harry
      sympathized with being separated from familiar classmates and
      friends, given that, though he was taking second year charms and
      defense, he was taking 4th year potions, runes, and transfiguration
      and 6th year arithmancy. He began thumbing through some of the more
      obscure potions texts he had accumulated, looking for alternative
      cures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, he found an arcane transfiguration reversal potion,
      based primarily around a magical plant known as a phoenix-feather
      reed, which needed to be harvested in a very specific, careful way
      in order to transfer its magical properties to the potion. The
      downside was that it wasn't guaranteed to work; the odds of
      successful transfiguration reversal were related to the weight of
      the reeds used in the potion, but it never got above 80%. Still,
      there were no obvious downsides, so Harry decided to pursue it. He
      discovered that those reeds grew among the plants around the shore
      of Hogwarts lake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After talking to Professor McGonagall, Madam Pomfrey, and later,
      the entire school, he had a small army of volunteers to help. He
      made sure all of them knew how to identify the correct plant, and a
      smaller number knew how to correctly harvest it. The larger group
      of students cut down the weeds and tossed them into a pile,
      allowing the smaller group to access and careful harvest the
      phoenix-feather reeds. Harry, meanwhile, transfigured a thin layer
      of metal over a natural depression in the ground, creating a huge
      cauldron, and began preparing the rest of the potion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few hours, Harry had the cauldron ready. The students
      had made their way around almost half of the lake and prepared a
      small bundle of plants for the potion, yet Harry calculated that it
      was only enough to give the potion a 10% chance of success. He made
      a noise of disgust, almost giving up on his plan. Then his eyes lit
      up, and he grabbed armful after armful of the non-magical plants,
      and tossed them into the cauldron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione saw what he was doing and yelled, "Harry, that's not
      what the instructions say. What are you doing?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't it obvious?" He replied, "The weeds of the many outweigh
      the reeds of the few."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">originally posted at (HPMOR 314xg1)</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">After actually_just_idiot posted "And the mirror will be
      suspended above a fiery wasteland. Not because they moved it,
      that's just what Hogwarts became in Harry's 4th year." (at HPMOR
      2y3gv2 cp5wfrf) and gameboy17 replied "Turns out a Hogwarts science
      fair was exactly as bad as his parents would have guessed. " (at
      cp5wm14):</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Hogwarts had a science fair...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Entry 41: Harry James Potter Evans-Verres, "Magical Artifacts
      Applied to Preliminary Terra-Forming"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Materials: one pair of vanishing cabinets, one phoenix</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theory: Mars has too little greenhouse gas to be habitable.
      Venus has too much. Obvious solution is obvious. Phoenixi are
      capable of near-instantaneous (it has yet to be determined how
      their speed compares to the speed of light) teleportation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Procedure: The doors of both cabinets were removed, creating a
      stable wormhole between the two artifacts. A phoenix was instructed
      to put one cabinet on the planet Mars (this process took several
      days). After returning, the phoenix was given a few days off and
      then instructed to put the other cabinet on Venus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Results: A phoenix can apparently only travel a few hundred
      million kilometers before regenerating; a limit that was previously
      unknown due to the fact that wizards have only used them for travel
      near Earth's surface, where the maximum travel distance is less
      than 13 thousand kilometers. This limit requires further
      experimentation to precisely determine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gas instantly began flowing from the high pressure atmosphere of
      Venus to the low pressure atmosphere of Mars. Currently, large
      vortical storm systems are centered around the cabinets on both
      planets. After the pressure equalizes, flow will stop and stage 2
      (the selection and transplantation of appropriate extremophiles)
      can begin. I've been informed that NASA's planetary protection
      committee is very upset by the contamination of Mars and will
      likely oppose stage 2 as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes' current location is unknown. Due to the well-known
      regeneration abilities of phoenixi (and witnesses seeing him with
      the headmaster several times in the past few days), this researcher
      suspects he is hiding from me; apparently saving a phoenix' master
      from magical solitary confinement only goes so far for those
      ungrateful fire-chickens.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">originally posted at (HPMOR 2y3gv2 cp5yhmt)</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In response to someone who posted the title "Chapter 123 " with
      the text "Just kidding. " shortly after HPMoR concluded (at HPMOR
      2z31zg):</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just for that, this is what you get:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chapter 123: Futility</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry awoke the next day, eager to eat breakfast and study with
      Hermione. As he arrived in the great hall, an owl arrived and
      presented him with a letter. He opened the envelope and frowned
      when he pulled out a second envelope. He began to tear open the
      inner envelope when he felt the pull of a portkey. "Dumbledore
      can't inspect and return my mail anymore", he realized. He landed
      in a small room, lit by a dim blue glow coming from nowhere or
      everywhere. There was only one door, and Harry walked over and
      opened it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sealed horror flowed out of its prison, snapping Harry's neck
      with two of its tentacles. It then began tunneling upward out of
      the room. Civilization didn't survive long after that.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
