<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 19: Recklessness, Pt 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19: Recklessness, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During his second year at Hogwarts, Harry is still concerned
      about the fate of the world and, though Hermione has obtained a
      phoenix and destroyed Azkaban's dementors, work on the
      Philosopher's Stone based hospital at Hogwarts has stalled due to
      ward incompatibilities and the temporary hospital in Azkaban tower
      has been shut down after being compromised by Bellatrix. Many
      aurors were killed or fatally injured and are in
      transfiguration-based stasis awaiting treatment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody detected evidence of horcrux possession on Hermione and
      probably on Sprout. Draco and other students demonstrated unusual
      behavior and were later found to have been memory charmed. Harry
      thought of potential countermeasures Voldemort could have used
      against parseltongue and obliviation and suspects that Voldemort
      survived, that his plan had been to pretend to lose while preparing
      a powerful and immortal host for himself who Harry would trust
      implicitly (and explicitly, given the unbreakable vow).
      Unfortunately, that same vow prevented Harry from sharing his
      suspicions, until Moody revealed that he'd been thinking similar
      things. Thus far, efforts to locate a horcrux at Hogwarts have been
      unsuccessful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna demonstrates uncanny knowledge even though she's obviously
      not a real seer. Moody has hypothesized that Defense professor
      Gilderoy Lockhart is incompetent and relying on liquid luck for his
      accomplishments. And obviously plotting something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry has a relatively long list of things he intends to
      investigate, including big picture items like Merlin's Interdict,
      prophecy, time-turner paradoxes, magic-technology interactions, and
      rescuing Dumbledore, as well as smaller scale things like looking
      into Ravenclaw's Diadem or whether the potion liquid luck is a real
      thing or a cover story. Magical interferences with technology are
      proving more difficult to pin down than he had hoped, so he has
      focused more strongly on learning arithmancy, which involves
      putting spells together to achieve novel functions.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If you think hard enough you can do the impossible.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">(It had always been an article of faith with Harry. There'd
      been a time when he'd acknowledged the laws of physics as ultimate
      limitations, and now he suspected there were no true limits at
      all.)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If you think <em class="calibre7">fast</em> enough you can sometimes do the
      impossible <em class="calibre7">quickly</em>...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...sometimes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Only sometimes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Not always.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Not <em class="calibre7">reliably</em>.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">With Professor Flitwick gone, Harry had asked Professor
      Vector if there was any way to detect damage to the wards around
      the crystal cases, verify the residue that a real duel should have
      left behind. Harry had raced through the Hogwarts library looking
      for spells to tell the difference between old fingerprints and new
      fingerprints, or to detect lingering exhalations in a room. And all
      those attempts at playing detective had failed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There were no clues, none that he was smart enough to
      find.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Professor Snape had said that the portkey led to an empty
      house in London, with no sign of anyone or anything else.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Professor Snape hadn't found any notes in Hermione's
      dorm.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Headmaster Dumbledore had said that Voldemort's spirit was
      probably hiding out in the Chamber of Secrets where the Hogwarts
      security system couldn't find him. Harry had snuck into the
      Slytherin dungeons under the Cloak of Invisibility and spent the
      rest of the afternoon looking through all the obvious places, but
      he hadn't found anything snaky that answered back when spoken to.
      The entrance to the Chamber of Secrets, it seemed, hadn't been
      meant to be found in a day.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry had talked to all of Hermione's friends that would
      still talk to him, and none of them had remembered Hermione saying
      anything specific about why she'd believed that Draco was plotting
      against her.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry had used up all six hours from his Time-Turner, and
      there were still no clues, and he had to go to sleep now if he
      wanted to be functional at Hermione's trial the next day.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Boy-Who-Destroyed-A-Dementor was standing in the middle
      of the Hogwarts trophy room, his wand dropped at his feet.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">He was crying.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Sometimes you call your brain and it doesn't
      answer.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">After awaking, Harry sighed softly, then stunned himself
      back to sleep.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stated, "Headmistress, I have a meeting with Arthur
      Weasley at the Ministry this morning, so I won't be in the castle
      for a while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, "You think he can help you study how muggle
      artifacts work with magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe, but I doubt it. I mostly wanted an excuse to see the
      Ministry of Magic without the Acting Chief Warlock thinking I'm
      checking up on her or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sometime later, he flooed into the Ministry atrium. Harry had
      nothing to compare it to, but it looked to him like business as
      usual was occurring. Some people were standing around talking while
      others appeared to be in a hurry to go in various directions. A
      receptionist asked Harry why he was there and then provided
      directions to the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts office. Harry thanked
      him and walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then began exploring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked through random hallway after random hallway. Harry
      quickly noted that the layout was more sensible than Hogwarts, the
      automatically supplied the phrase "damned with faint praise".
      Occasionally a doorway was labeled with a name he recognized from a
      newspaper or a conversation, but mostly the building was a large
      collection of anonymous offices. Harry had decided against walking
      into the Department of Mysteries without an appointment, but he
      couldn't resist visiting the Wizengamot chamber, that symbol of
      current political power and lost magical power, which was likely
      the reason why the Ministry of Magic was located in a densely
      populated muggle city. After standing behind the Chief Warlock's
      podium and looking down at the chamber, Harry paused for a moment,
      then checked his watch and moved toward the exit, backtracking and
      navigating the the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knocked on the door of Arthur's office, and was quickly
      invited in, "Oh, Hello Harry. Sorry about the mess, I had to move
      everything in here so the DMLE could use my department's other
      rooms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. I didn't notice anything wrong at all with the building, so
      I kind of assumed they'd already repaired everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, they just put up illusions in some hallways to hide the
      damaged areas. It's good enough to fool anyone who doesn't come
      here often; they don't want to look weak to representatives of
      foreign governments. Anyway, I've been looking forward to talking
      with you. I heard some things about how you were using muggle
      devices in those dueling sessions last year. Can you tell me a
      little more about that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed a sigh and began answering questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sometime later, Arthur added, "It's too bad they made you stop.
      That's exactly the kind of thinking we need in the Department of
      Misuse of Muggle Artifacts. I don't suppose you've given any
      thought to your future career?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually... I'm not really sure what your department does."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, the mission statement is pretty vague, but it's
      intentional. Originally 'Misuse of Muggle Artifacts' was intended
      to prevent wizard culture from becoming more like muggle culture.
      Dumbledore couldn't get rid of the department entirely, so he
      changed it to be about preventing wizards from making magical
      objects that muggles might stumble across."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you have staff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not... currently. When I need help with something important,
      I've been able to get a few aurors on temporary assignment.
      Assuming the DMLE isn't busy... Anyway, I also heard you have a...
      radio working at Hogwarts? So muggle studies can listen to actual
      muggle news reports and such?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it's just a simple crystal radio. It picks up strong AM
      broadcasts. Though if a calculator works here, you can probably use
      a normal AM/FM radio, or even a TV. That will pick up a lot more
      stations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur looked at him with blank expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry clarified, "Just get some muggle money from Gringotts and
      buy stuff in London."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur nodded, then exclaimed, "Oh, I think you wanted to see my
      calculator. This thing is a life save when I have to do
      accounting." Arthur frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned forward and saw that the calculator was not
      functioning. He retrieved his own, with the same result. He was
      disappointed, but not particularly surprised by this result.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur shrugged, "Sometimes it doesn't work here. I don't know
      why, but it usually fixes itself within a week or so. Almost always
      works at home, though, so if you want we can try there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps another time. I do have classes to attend."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"A new bright star mysteriously appeared? You'd think we'd have
      read about that in the news", Terry smirked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna explained patiently, "It didn't just appear; it's been
      there for years. It's just not there during astronomy class. Or
      whenever I look at the sky above Hogwarts. Maybe there's a ward
      here to hide it for some reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione suggested, "Astronomical objects bright enough to be
      seen without magic or technology have been pretty well mapped for
      centuries. Maybe you saw a plane or a satellite? Though I'm not
      sure why you'd always see them in Gemini"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terry exclaimed, "That's what I'm saying. A mystery star is
      crazy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny looked up, "Who appointed you arbiter of sanity?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terry rolled his eyes, "This is the Ravenclaw table. Go eat
      dinner with the other Gryffindors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny smirked, "Who put you in charge of assigning seats?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shrugged, "Anyway, I have to get back to work on
      something." She got up and left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without turning her head, Luna's expression had changed and it
      was clear she was no longer following the conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat down/partially collapsed into a seat nearby and began
      absently piling food onto a plate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Harry?", Harry looked up from the plate. Terry continued,
      "How would you explain it if someone claimed they saw a really
      bright star that no one else knows about and isn't always
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged and returned to gathering food, "Venus and
      Jupiter are the brightest objects in the night sky, and I've read
      that they're frequently misidentified by people who don't pay much
      attention to the sky. And planets change position relative to the
      stars; it's actually how they were named. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terry smirked at Luna, "No reason."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A group of Slytherins had Neville surrounded and disarmed.
      Peregrine Derrick laughed then cast hover charm, "How high do you
      guys think he'll bounce?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Across the Great Hall, Harry sighed and rhetorically asked the
      nearby Ravenclaws, "Do any of you ever think of something you
      *know* is a bad idea, but it's just so awesome that you have to go
      through with it anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma frowned, "No. Knowing something is a bad idea is what
      happens before the decisions you don't make."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, removing his glasses and casting luminos onto both
      lenses, "Solid point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna smiled, "If I didn't act on bad ideas, I'd never get
      anything done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled, "Interesting perspective". He replaced his
      glasses, tapped them with his wand and muttered a sticking
      charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anthony shook his head, "There might be a reason for that. What
      exactly are you planning Harry..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't paying attention then because he was already in the
      air. A wave of silence spread out around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the Slytherin table, Lesath gasped, "My lord!", and fell to
      his knees. Those around him glanced around at each other nervously.
      More than a few followed Lesath's example.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred whispered to George, "Marauder Junior's really got us this
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George whispered back, "Seriously. We're never going to top this
      one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma whispered to Anthony, "Invisible broom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anthony whispered back, "That's got to be it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick's voice carried easily through the quiet hall, "You
      think you're so great, Longbottom. I wonder, can you fly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry drifted over and put Neville's arm over his shoulder,
      preparing to support his weight, "I actually haven't taught him
      that yet. But trust me, it's on my list." He forced a maniacal
      laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick released the hover charm and cast a stupify at Harry. It
      reflected off of his robe and stunned Derrick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the others slowly put his wand away, then raised his
      hands, "Lord, forgive me, please show mercy." The rest hesitated,
      then followed suite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snapped, "Just get out of my sight. And get <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      out of here." He gestured at Derrick's body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry brought Neville safely to the ground, then canceled the
      sticking charm and red glow on his glasses, laughing (normally this
      time).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron leveled his wand at Harry, hand visibly shaking, "Drop your
      wand and surrender."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George quickly approached Ron, "Hey, put that down."
      "What on earth do you think you're doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He can fly. No one can do that other than Voldemort. Didn't you
      see his eyes glow red? What else are we supposed to believe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy stood and casually hurdled the nearby tables, bouncing up
      from his landing and hanging in the air looking down at Ron. "If
      that's all it takes, you can address me as Dark Lord Weasley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George laughed, allowing themselves to fall to the
      floor and roll back and forth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too much... Too much..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just imagine... Percy..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A dark lord..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Ron... the dark wizard hunter..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Imagine if someone made that a play..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should write that... Imagine how many tickets we could
      sell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron opened his mouth to reply, then paused. He looked around the
      room at the other students. Some were laughing. Others had their
      wands out and shields in place. Yet others were on their knees. All
      were staring at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall's voice blasted through the tension, "Everyone go
      back to your common rooms. Mr. Potter, to my office now."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall shook her head sadly, "How are you able to be so
      smart and yet so dumb?".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "After failing to get the hospital running for so
      long, after... everything... I just really needed a win somewhere.
      Permanently ending the bullying at this school seemed like a good
      thing to try. I know it wasn't the most well-reasoned idea, but all
      I really did was hover around a bit with my glasses glowing red;
      how bad could it possibly turn out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall shook her head, "I know you've been putting a lot of
      pressure on yourself. Go back to your room and try to get a full
      night's sleep. I'm sure you'll feel better in the morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and walked to the door, whispering to himself,
      "Yeah, I'm sure <em class="calibre7">that</em> will happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And of course, it didn't.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A young Hufflepuff whose name he couldn't remember smiled
      brightly, "Thank you so much for walking us back to the common
      room, Cedric. We wouldn't have wanted to lose points getting caught
      out past curfew on our own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric shrugged, "It's no problem. And I'm sure no one would
      have a problem with the group of you being out a few minutes late.
      And you were coming straight from the library. Studying magic is
      pretty much the point of this school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another shuddered, "Not to mention the <em class="calibre7">other</em> people who
      might be out here at night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric nodded, "Yeah, that can be a problem. It's good to keep
      safety in numbers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you hear that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No? What was it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I'm not sure. Maybe someone breathing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only if it was really loudly and slowly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric held a finger to his lips, and listened while the group
      stopped talking. After a moment, he concluded, "I don't hear- Okay,
      I heard that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It sounds like there's someone nearby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It didn't sound like footsteps."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it was more like shuffling or dragging."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Over there! ...I saw something move down that hallway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something like what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, just a dark shape. But it was pretty short, not
      like a person or anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is someone over there?", Cedric called out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair warning: if you attack us, I will have to hurt you", he
      added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could anything bad happen to us with Cedric around?",
      someone asked, attempting a casual smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric smiled back, stoically trying to hide his
      nervousness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric released a breath, "Stay here. I'll check it out." He
      cast a light from the end of his wand and strode forward...</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
