<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 2: Zimbardo's Methodology was Flawed, Pt 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Zimbardo's Methodology Was Flawed, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shortly after the story in HPMOR, Harry remains deeply concerned
      about the fate of the world, despite Moody having made progress
      toward a functional Philosopher's Stone based hospital, and Bones
      apparently grudgingly willing to take his cues on national policy.
      Although, she's very concerned that they're hiding something about
      that policy from the others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco is concerned about his future; his father is gone, his
      family has lost a significant amount of money, and because Harry
      has been so distant, Draco is convinced Harry's and Lucius' deal
      (for Draco to become leader of Magical Britain) has fallen through.
      Draco then finds a secret cache of dark and powerful objects his
      father had squirreled away, including the diary of one Tom Marvolo
      Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody is suspicious of Gilderoy Lockhart, McGonagall's new hire
      for Defense professor. But that's nothing new, and Moody has found
      no evidence of wrongdoing in spite of putting some effort into
      investigating him. Moody, Bones, McGonagall, and Hermione are all
      concerned about Harry's apparent desire to release Voldemort from
      the ring in order to question him about the mirror and help rescue
      Dumbledore. Sprout has mysteriously received a gift: the long-lost
      and apparently cursed Hufflepuff Cup.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow, this place is huge!" Dean exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville looked embarrassed. Susan elbowed Dean.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, happy birthday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked outside to the even larger yard where the party was
      happening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah walked over to the group, "Everyone in Hufflepuff missed
      you after you left Hogwarts last spring. Are you coming back this
      fall?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I'll be back. I mean, there's no reason not to, with
      Voldemort gone (again). There's no way this year will be that crazy
      or dangerous. We'll lose another defense professor but that will
      probably be it. I wonder what Harry and Hermione will be doing,
      though. They've apparently been studying all summer to take their
      OWLs early."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore shook his head, "I'm betting on multiple deaths and
      mysterious resurrections. Whatever happens has to top last
      year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey laughed, "Of course Harry and Hermione will be back. Can
      you imagine either of them as Hogwarts dropouts? That would take a
      confundus charm powerful enough to cover the whole school and last
      for decades."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know about that", Ron replied. "I never thought I'd
      look forward to going back to school, but the underage magic law
      makes everything else so boring. If I could lose one summer
      studying and then be able to do magic anywhere and not have to
      study ever again, that would be bloody brilliant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey smirked. "You stopped doing magic over the summer? Ha
      ha."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron indignantly demanded, "You've been doing magic this whole
      time!? How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey just pointed at him, still laughing. Neville shrugged and
      offered, "Longbottom manor is warded against lots of stuff. The
      ministry can't detect anything within the house unless someone
      calls aurors through the floo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're lucky", Seamus said. "I had to 'accidentally' switch
      wands with mom so many times before the aurors stopped responding
      when she cast spells with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Susan frowned, "Yeah. That happened. My aunt says they pretty
      much ignore reports of underage magic unless either someone does
      something stupid or a Wizengamot member requests reports on
      someone. Malfoy and his faction used to prevent their enemies' kids
      (and muggleborns) from using magic, but the rule didn't really
      apply to anyone else. This summer, I don't think the DMLE followed
      up on anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh... Then I guess the aurors must have come because of the
      fire damage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah", replied everyone else, nodding in understanding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron turned back to Tracey, who had recently stopped laughing,
      "So what was your brilliant method for not getting caught."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey shrugged, "I'm friends with Susan. Oh, Harry and Hermione
      are here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Harry", Neville waved him over. "After you pass your OWLs,
      are you coming back to Hogwarts for classes or are you going to
      drop out to teach the rest of the world the true meaning of
      chaos?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry feigned offense, "You don't think I can do both?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione answered, "Seriously, though, we'll be taking Defense
      and Herbology with the second years, Transfiguration, Arithmancy,
      and Divination with the third years, and Potions and Astronomy with
      the fourth years. We might sit in on a Charms class, but we aren't
      magically powerful enough to take the fourth year class right
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you were taking your OWLs. Why aren't you taking 6th
      year classes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry answered, "We scored enough As to be able to vote in the
      Wizengamot, but there's a huge difference between passing a test
      and being competent at something. And it's important that we're
      proficient in most subjects. For example, there are about a dozen
      charms and a dozen potions that they've rotated through for the
      bulk of those OWLs for several decades so you don't need to learn
      much to pass. Professor Sprout was away or busy all summer, so we
      didn't get any practical Herbology training at all. And for some
      reason, they don't let anyone test out of Arithmancy; people have
      to actually go to every lecture. It's annoying because I'm sure I
      could have passed the NEWT for the math that wizards use. Though,
      it's great to be done with History forever, with 'forever' defined
      as 'as long as Binns is still teaching."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Neville was talking to Harry, the rest of the group had
      slowly dispersed. Harry expected people to lose interest in
      conversations about school, but he felt oddly suspicious. He turned
      around to get an overview of the rest of the party-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surprise!", yelled everyone. A banner changed its text from
      'Happy Birthday, Neville' to add 'and Harry'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked back at Neville and whispered, "you know I'm going
      to get you back for this, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville just smiled and nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes and shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked toward the snacks and drinks table and glancing at
      the butter-beer tap, he suddenly had a thought. He didn't know
      exactly what would happen, and if his working hypothesis were
      correct, it would literally have no effect. But he found himself
      unable to resist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later, he returned, handing Hermione a mug and taking a
      sip from his own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some time later, Fred and George ran up to Harry, followed by
      Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need your help", George began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, Ginny demanded we introduce her", Fred interjected.
      "She's your biggest fan but you probably already knew that from
      that picture in the Prophet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny looked at Harry and opened her mouth to say something, but
      apparently forgot her lines. Then she stomped on Fred's foot and
      chased him as he hopped away while George continued, "The
      'entertainment' here is for babies. Children's songs, jokes for
      little kids."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah", Harry answered. "Did you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Think about the problem for five minutes? Yes. Our best
      solution was to ask you to snap your fingers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused for a second, then solemnly intoned, "By my
      god-like authority, I command the universe to rain chaos and fun
      down on this party", then snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's when a pigeon flew overhead and crapped on Augusta
      Longbottom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madame Longbottom had been standing on the conjured stage,
      beginning to introduce the group she'd hired when the white liquid
      hit her shoulder, splashing onto her cheek and dribbling down her
      robes. About half the children laughed. and a few choked on their
      drinks. She hastily cast a pair of cleaning charms and concluded
      the introduction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The group began playing the music for their first song,
      amplified through a pair of stones radiating a constant sonorus
      charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just before the first lyric, the singer tripped, knocking heads
      with one of the musicians, who fell, instinctively reaching out to
      break his fall, poking another musician in the eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the sonorus-speaker system transfigured into what appeared
      to be a pair of very small, very deformed dragons, which began
      roaring, drowning out the sound of children's laughter with an
      out-of-tune but recognizable version of the song that was being
      performed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The performers got up and talked privately for a moment. One
      walked over to Madame Longbottom, saying "We can't work like this;
      we'll send you a refund."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A while later, a silvery owl circled over the property once,
      then descended and approached Neville, offering a package. Neville
      read the note while feeding the owl a handful of snacks. "Oh, it's
      a birthday present from Draco. That was nice of him; I don't really
      even know him very well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bird flapped its wings and launched itself into the air. It
      disappeared quickly into the sky, but not before crapping on Madame
      Longbottom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's enough of that", she announced. "I'm staying inside for
      a while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She went inside and took a seat near a window where she could
      continue to watch everyone outside. As soon as she sat down, her
      hat vulture struggled and let out a cry. It then crapped, the
      liquid splattering the side of her face and the front of her robes.
      Everyone began laughing, some choking, and others laughing at those
      who were choking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry", Neville asked, after he'd located Harry and caught his
      breath, "I think this has somehow been both my best and worst
      birthday party ever. Did you snap your fingers or what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand completely. And I can neither confirm nor deny
      whether I got you back-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione interrupted, "Harry, knock that off. What did you
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just smirked, reaching into his pouch and tossing her an
      empty can of comed-tea. "It's a definite possibility that the
      drinks at this party have been spiked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry found himself confused. It strained credulity that all
      of this was already coincidentally going to happen in one time and
      place, such that someone could be compelled to give everyone
      present a comed-tea. But that left him with the original, even less
      probable, idea, that comed-tea altered the universe to produce
      comedy set-ups. There had to be something else going on here. And
      perhaps more strangely, comed-tea mixed with butter-beer apparently
      produced humor of a much more slapstick variety than pure
      comed-tea. For the latter, Harry decided, he could at least tell
      himself that the comedy adapts to its audience, but the former was
      going to bother him until he understood it. Maybe Fred and George
      had staged the whole thing and only asked him to snap to create
      plausible deniability... Harry smiled; the more creatively those
      two learned to think, the more formidable they would become.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Hermione were on the roof of Harry's office. It wasn't
      as comfortable as his office for getting work done, but it was far
      more inspiring, especially at night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, would you mind reading over this for me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, Harry, what is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm writing a speech for Bones to give to the Wizengamot to
      convince them to decommission Azkaban. I've gone through the most
      inspiring and persuasive speeches in muggle history, and tried to
      replicate what makes them effective. I'm not very optimistic, but
      I'm running out of things to try."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took the parchment and read for a moment, while Harry
      laid on his back watching the stars, "It reads like a speech. I
      can't think of how to improve it. But I doubt it will change
      anything either. Some social changes just require a new generation
      in power before they can happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty to forty more years of those abominations destroying the
      life and magic of human beings? There must be a better solution
      than that. Peter Pettigrew has been out of the prison for over a
      month. I've been told he's been healing but still hasn't spoken,
      and his magic should be slowly returning, but he hasn't cast
      anything, even accidentally. There are probably others who are also
      innocent, and there are certainly people who were cruelly sentenced
      over accidents, all overlooked by a system that cares more about
      inspiring fear and obedience than administering justice. You should
      read about the Stanford Prison Experiment. It basically showed
      that, under certain conditions, most people can be turned into
      monsters. I suspect-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have read about it, actually. Including lots of criticism of
      the methods and conclusions, from bias in selecting participants,
      to relying entirely on subjective observations, and a total lack of
      control groups or blinding. The simplest explanation seems to be
      that Phillip Zimbardo was a sociopath and a handful of the
      participants were strongly influenced by conformity effects to
      behave as they believed he wanted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief pause as Harry considered this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could always order them to close the prison and destroy the
      dementors yourself if they refuse", Hermione suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled sadly, "You have no idea how many times I've
      thought about doing exactly that. I really should have done it the
      first time I had the chance... Anyway, killing a dementor is not
      without risk. Killing all of them... I can't risk dying to end one
      problem in one small corner of the world when I'm responsible for
      saving all of civilization and possibly all life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could teach other people how to kill dementors, and go in
      with a small army. Then everyone would face a lower risk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's currently plan A, but finding people who are trustworthy
      takes time, determining that they're capable of learning the
      necessary spell takes time, and waiting for them to learn
      occlumency takes time. It will take years to prepare that
      army."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said you'd teach me after I learned occlumency. How long do
      you think it will be until I've learned it well enough?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, uh, I think you've stopped getting better at
      occlumency. Not everyone has a personality type that can become a
      successful occlumens. But I've been thinking this over: you can put
      up an almost-complete block, which is enough to stop most
      legilimens, the Wizengamot can't legally force one of its own
      members to take veritaserum, and Mad-eye can hunt down and
      obliviate anyone who gets the secret. It's a risk, but I think it's
      worth it. This part should be easier for you than learning
      occlumency; first you have to solve a riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at him incredulously, "Riddle? I have to solve a
      riddle to kill dementors? Where are you getting your 'mysterious
      old wizard' instructions?" She paused, then looked slightly scared,
      "Dumbledore didn't write a manual for you, did he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll understand when you understand. I'm looking for an
      abstract concept: what do people fear, but not animals? What is
      impossible to kill? What is so horrible that the mind refuses to
      process it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to say 'trolls', but that isn't a concept. At least not
      'troll' the animal; 'troll' the grade fits... But I'm guessing
      'death' is the answer you're looking for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, frowning. "My next question was going to be 'what
      dark creature best fits that concept' but you already got that
      answer wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Professor Quirrell called dementors the second most
      perfect killing machine, and that's obviously what we're talking
      about. Oh, this makes sense: that's why people see them as
      waterlogged corpses. And I suppose it makes sense, as far as magic
      ever does, that distracting yourself with happy thoughts calls up a
      magic animal which is immune to the fear of death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded again, smiling this time. "Not everyone who can't
      produce a patronus is unhappy; many of them are the kind of person
      who can't use a happy distraction to escape an unpleasant
      truth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you haven't told people this because the knowledge might
      prevent them from using a patronus at all." It wasn't a question.
      "So what's the solution; you can produce a patronus anyway,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The answer is obvious: you don't try to distract yourself. You
      stare death in the metaphorical face, comprehend it, fill your mind
      with happy thoughts, then cast a patronus using the thought of
      conquering death, of a future where death is just a bad memory. My
      first time I was staring into a literal dementor, but I suspect
      that you can imagine staring death in the face easily enough
      without one. Anyway, I ran through every happy thought I could,
      then finished with picturing the earth among the stars, and the
      future of human civilization, having inherited the galaxy and
      having advanced far beyond anything so mundane as a dementor.
      Expecto patronum!" A flash from his wand formed into a silvery
      humanoid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued, "That produces a better type of patronus: it
      can blind, disable, or even permanently destroy dementors. It lets
      you put a lot more into it", the patronus brightened until it was
      painful to look at, "but that's also dangerous because it's powered
      by one's life as well as magic." Harry let the patronus fade
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later there was a new silvery humanoid on the roof.
      Hermione sat down, hard, next to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So that's the secret to destroying dementors. And you said it's
      powered by life. So someone could die by putting too much life into
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a definite risk. If it were safe and easy, I'd hunt
      dementors as a hobby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were both silent for a few minutes, watching the stars.
      Harry saw the light moving in the sky, and checked his watch,
      smiling. Hermione noticed it a moment later. "Harry, what is that?
      It looks like it's headed here." Harry nodded and climbed to his
      feet, Hermione stood as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix slowed to a hover in front of them and cawed loudly
      at Hermione. She turned to Harry, "So I'm the one who has to be the
      hero. I'm going to go, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded again, "I know; it wouldn't be you if you could make
      any other choice." Hermione touched the phoenix's talon and they
      disappeared in a fiery flash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let himself show a mischievous smile and reached for his
      time-turner. He mentally checked off the 'obtain a phoenix for
      Hermione' part of his master plan, and moved on to the next item:
      he intended to test the hypothesis that phoenices came from the
      mirror. But before he could activate the time-turner, he was
      interrupted by the flash of the phoenix returning. Alone. The
      phoenix called out, looking around, appearing confused. "What the
      hell did you do?" Harry demanded.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Chief Warlock (as far as everyone knew) Bones didn't even try to
      hide her exasperated sigh from the assembled Wizengamot. She had
      naively hoped the absence of the usual evil faction would allow the
      rest of the assembly to get useful things done. Unfortunately, even
      though they weren't murderous bigots, they were still
      politicians.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To make matters worse, that kid, despite clearly believing in
      this cause, had ordered her to sabotage it if necessary "for now".
      He had made the dubious claim that her efforts either way wouldn't
      matter in the end and this way she could possibly gain the trust of
      the new Wizengamot dark faction. Then he had ominously added 'also,
      other reasons', which especially does not inspire confidence when
      said by a dark-wizard generated possible ticking-time-bomb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why should we prepare to transfer anyone to a different prison?
      We have a perfectly good one already", asked some nameless
      businessman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tiberius Ogden responded, beginning to lose his temper, "I told
      you why: one, dementors are a disgusting punishment, fit for only
      the worst of the worst offenders and everyone knows it. And that's
      not just bleeding-heart sentiment; there are real-world
      consequences. It hurts our international credibility: other
      countries don't trust our motives when we try to build
      international coalitions against threats. They were even willing to
      ignore Voldemort at his worst. Two, we have a higher crime rate
      than most countries because petty criminals (such as unregistered
      animagi or ward-breakers-for-hire) are allowed to operate with
      impunity; sending them to Azkaban would be unjust so such sentences
      are rarely applied. And that's not even addressing the issue of
      falsely imprisoned innocents, such as Mr. Pettigrew. Three,
      dementors do not make a secure prison. They're not trustworthy
      without a relatively large group of specially trained aurors. And
      they prevent most other defenses from being employed effectively.
      Bellatrix Black escaped and is still at large. No one has escaped
      Nurmengard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As Director of Magical Law Enforcement, you told us that you
      fixed the security problems. Is that accurate?" Umbridge addressed
      Bones with a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you already know", Bones began with a glare, "the addition
      of new wards and precautions should prevent that method from
      working again. All prisoners are now checked for animagus forms
      when they enter the prison and the time visitors can spend there
      with patroni is strictly limited. The anti-flight wards were
      upgraded to cover all unauthorized magical flight, and a device was
      added that casts 'arresto momento' on all unauthorized objects or
      individuals a few times per second. Mr. Weasley at Misuse of Muggle
      Artifacts has thus far been unable to procure a suitable device for
      testing those wards, but we believe they will be sufficient." After
      Dumbledore's disappearance, she had personally added a ward to
      prevent phoenices from teleporting into the prison while allowing
      the individuals transported by the phoenix a one-way trip, but she
      had decided that no one needed to know about that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the prison is still largely dependent on dementors", Ogden
      replied. "A modern magical prison, with solid walls and doors,
      locked with colloportus, and covered with various shielding charms
      and tampering alarms would be far better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how much would renting space in a foreign prison and
      transferring all those people cost? Or worse, constructing a new
      prison?" asked Lady Greengrass, playing the role of someone
      competent and prudent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge interrupted, "That's a great question, but I know what
      we could do to improve security for free: order the dementors to
      keep at least one of their number in the prison at all times, with
      orders to kiss anyone caught outside of the cells. Visitors must be
      escorted by aurors at all times. We can charge the visitors for the
      cost of any additional aurors required."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones fought down the familiar urge to punch Umbridge in the
      face or try futilely to teach the idiots about single point
      failures or always fighting the last war, took a deep breath,
      tapped the Line of Merlin against the podium, and called for a
      vote.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Note: Skepticism has been expressed for Amelia Bones' ability to
      create a phoenix ward so quickly, given that phoenices are so
      powerful. I don't believe this is an issue because 1) HPMOR doesn't
      operate on a power hierarchy, it operates on the principle that
      'even the greatest artifact can be defeated by a counter-artifact
      that is lesser, but specialized' 2) Amelia Bones is one of the
      smartest and most knowledgeable characters in the story, and 3) she
      was annoyed by Dumbledore's ability to show up wherever he felt
      like, so she was likely investigating phoenix warding on and off
      for the past decade even if she decided against implementing it
      until after he disappeared.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
