<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 22: Conclusion, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 22: Conclusion</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast a stupify at Ginny to ensure she was unconscious. He
      put her wand in his pouch then searched her and found a backup
      wand. He partially transfigured part of the floor into handcuffs
      (still attached to the floor) and restrained her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He used a hover charm to pull the diary from the basilisk's
      mouth, cast analytic spells until he was convinced that the venom
      had neutralized the magic, then put the diary into his pouch as
      well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tore a sheet of paper from a notebook and cast Flitwick's
      mapping spell with vitalis revelio. The paper exploded and fibers
      shot off in all directions, bouncing around corners and leaving the
      room. A moment later they returned equally quickly and formed a
      representation of the nearest few rooms. There were two red spots
      in the neighboring room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he stepped through the doorway, nothing was immediately
      visible. Harry brandished the elder wand and cast the most powerful
      finite incantatem he could manage. Hermione became visible and
      dropped to the ground as the transfigured chains holding her
      reverted. A large, bubbling cauldron also appeared on the floor
      nearby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry... I mean... thanks for the rescue, but you could have
      dispelled the disillusionment and reversed that transfiguration
      without cuttings my hands off." While talking, she jumped to her
      feet and kicked the cauldron over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought it best to make sure any booby traps were dispelled
      as quickly as possible." Harry stared at the smoking, pitted floor
      where the cauldron's contents had spilled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, now mostly healed, reached into the cauldron and
      retrieved a gold egg speckled with red spots. "Fake Ginny knew
      about Crookshanks somehow, so when he came to rescue me, she
      trapped him in an acid bath. He burned up and regenerated as an
      egg. The egg hatched a few times but just burned up and turned back
      into an egg each time. And Ginny kept refilling the acid as it
      boiled away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started walking back toward Ginny. "That's actually a
      pretty smart way to neutrali- Crookshanks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I finally found a name my phoenix liked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crookshanks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would you name a phoenix? Blood commando?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "You must have really enjoyed that argument the
      first time if you want to have it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's just get out of here. I don't suppose you know where my
      wand is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh... yeah, I think I know where it is. I'm going to..." Harry
      pulled a mirror out of his pouch and opened it, "Mad-Eye, I'm in
      the Chamber, headed to an exit in the first floor girls' bathroom.
      I destroyed a horcrux, but Ginny Weasley had been possessed by it,
      so I need someone to guard her and take her to... wherever they
      treat this sort of thing. Also, Hermione is down here with me,
      conscious and unharmed. Harry out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He put the mirror away, cast another stupify at Ginny, then cast
      a hover charm and moved toward the exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they passed the potions table, Hermione stopped and looked
      over it. "Harry, my wand isn't here either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on, I'm going to take Ginny upstairs. I'll be back in just
      a second." He hovered Ginny up the pipe and floated after her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He set her on the ground, cast another stupify, then turned to
      go back down the tunnel. He was startled by Hermione standing
      behind him. "How did you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I climbed up. Because I can do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." He levitated Ginny again, opened the door, and walked out
      into the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione followed him out, "Harry, stop. You've been acting
      distant and weird for months. What is going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry froze for a moment. He tried to think of things that he
      would say to either Hermione or Voldemort pretending to be
      Hermione, "Well, you've been acting unusual too, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever happened today doesn't count. You know that was her
      polyjuiced as me, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah, <em class="calibre7">Everyone</em> noticed 'you' acting strange
      today. But all year you've been, well, 'distant and weird' is a
      good description. You've barely been around except for classes and
      briefly at meals; what exactly have you been doing all year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just working on a project. And don't think I haven't
      noticed that you changed the subject."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do do that sometimes but in this case I was acting weird
      around you because you were acting weird. And you know most of what
      I've been doing: I'm always busy working on stuff, like studying
      various aspects of magic and/or technology, trying to get a
      super-hospital running smoothly, or subtly puppet-mastering the
      national policy of wizarding Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed, "I don't know how you do it. All the secrets
      you have to keep, all the pressure you're under from the things
      you're trying to do, and you come downstairs every day and keep
      being Harry like everything is normal. It's easier for me to play
      normal when the other students aren't looking at me, expecting me
      to talk to them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to quickly estimate how likely it would be that
      Voldemort's model of Hermione would say something like that, and
      concluded that Voldemort could use that excuse to avoid frequent
      social contact but would likely prioritize keeping informed and
      building relationships of possible future value. "Hermione, are
      you... maybe, depressed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." She sighed, "Well, maybe. Who wouldn't be? I mean, how are
      you okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I'm having some problems. I have to use a few sleeping
      charms to get a minimum healthy amount of sleep in a night
      anymore." Harry sighed, "I have to keep going anyway. Everything
      doesn't magically reset to the way it used to be just because the
      good guys win. That only happens in stories. In the real world,
      people experience traumas that may never fully heal and have to
      live with consequences. I'm not immune." Harry remembered something
      that he had to inform Voldemort about, and could potentially end
      the current situation peacefully, "Actually, one of the things
      that's been bothering me is that I found a serious problem in
      Voldemort's vow for me to not end the world: Dumbledore said that
      the world is prophesied to end, that it's inevitable, and that
      humanity can only survive if I'm the one who destroys it. But
      Voldemort's vow only lets me take that action if you agree, so
      you're a single point of failure for... everything. For example, if
      Voldemort or someone else possessed you, you'd no longer be my
      trusted friend and humans are doomed to extinction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you're being silly. From what you told me before, he
      didn't specifically name <em class="calibre7">me</em>; you can discuss those things
      with anyone you trust and consider a friend. So basically, you need
      to make more friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled; he hadn't thought of that and considered it
      virtually impossible that Voldemort would suggest such a thing.
      Then he frowned, "The vow includes intent, and that was clearly not
      Voldemort's intent. It was your death that caused the apocalyptic
      prophesy he was trying to prevent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Voldemort's intent wasn't relevant. He wasn't a participant
      in the vow ritual. The death eaters didn't know about the prophecy
      and wouldn't have been thinking about me. So it's only on you: is
      that what you intended?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I'll have to think about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, this isn't just hypothetical is it? Do you think I'm
      Voldemort now?" Her voice had risen until to almost a scream for
      the last question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, we thought you were possessed by Voldemort. It seemed
      like the best explanation at the time for your behavior and other
      stuff that was happening. Also, it makes sense that he'd want a
      super-powered host that I would trust."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shuddered, "Well, I guess <em class="calibre7">that's</em> something I have
      to look forward to." She suddenly scowled at him, and
      almost-yelled, "Dammit Harry, you just said that Voldemort revived
      me to avert a prophecy and that he revived me so he could possess
      me. Those can't both be true." She continued in a calmer voice, "If
      you assume both of those things, because they're contradictory, you
      can reach any conclusion by the principle of explosion. So of
      course you've been coming to the most ridiculously horrible
      conclusions you can think of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well... Mad-eye also thought you were possessed. And the
      defense curse is at least partially responsible for anything dumb
      I've done this year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I bet Mad-eye has a list of reasons why Headmistress McGonagall
      is probably possessed by Voldemort. And why Hannah Abbott is
      probably possessed by Voldemort. There's a place where 'constant
      vigilance' becomes ridiculous, and I think Moody uses it as a
      summer home." She gave Harry a confused look, "And you are
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> the defense professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled, "I wonder- what are the odds that two weeks ago
      you'd have used Ginny instead of Hannah in that statement. And it
      turns out that it's not a defense curse in the strictest sense;
      it's just set up such that the people it affects correlate
      extremely well with defense professors. So if you're not secretly
      Voldemort, what is this secret project you've been spending all
      your time on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry... I've read everything the library has on unicorns and
      trolls. And then read other stuff based on what I learned. Because
      I don't know what I am anymore. I don't think I'm even human
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, you're being silly. You're the same person as always,
      you just have super-human powers now. I'm pretty sure the hospital
      will be giving everyone those upgrades in maybe a decade."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione growled and for a second, Harry was concerned that she
      was literally going to hurt him, "Is this 'silly'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione walked over to a window, and put her hand outside.
      Harry watched her hand turn gray, as if the blood had drained from
      it. She then knocked on the wall, making a distinct stone-on-stone
      sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My skin mineralizes in sunlight now. I can't go outside
      anymore. I had to wait for a blizzard for it to be safe enough.
      I've spent half the year reading books about dark creatures, trying
      to find the spell Voldemort used to protect his troll from
      sunlight. Just so I can maybe pretend to be normal and just do
      things that normal people do once in a while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That ca... I don't understand... I know I've seen you outside
      during the day before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It started after Azkaban. At first it was just like my joints
      were getting stiff but it got worse and I started avoiding direct
      sunlight. A week later, I went to the upper levels and tried to
      stand in front of a west-facing window shortly before sunset. I
      couldn't move away until the sun was mostly below the horizon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's think about this for a few minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think I haven't done that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ignored her comment, "Why would a troll turn into stone in
      sunlight? There must be a reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides 'magic'? There isn't always a reason; sometimes magic
      just does weird things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There must be reasons. We just don't know what they are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rolled her eyes, "Maybe someone created trolls to be a
      weapon and wanted them to have a weakness in case they turned on
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't make sense; the weakness would apply whether they
      were attacking hypothetical wizard's enemies or allies. And if he
      or she was using magic to protect them from sunlight, why not just
      require a spell to keep them functional regardless of the weather,
      like a magical dead-man switch. I think it's more likely a
      side-effect, like a magical allergy... Similarly, it's hard to
      imagine someone deliberately setting out to invent a spell that
      protected trolls turning to stone. It's more likely a spell used
      for some other purpose and troll day-walking is a side-effect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe you're right, but I'm not sure how to search the library
      for spells that have a side-effect no one else cares about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mentioned Azkaban. If we knew exactly what triggered it,
      that would be a useful clue. But you were exposed to a phoenix,
      dementors, and who knows what other magic at around the same time.
      Was there anything that seemed especially... I don't know, painful
      or hard to deal with? Or that had a lasting effect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lots of stuff was annoying, but I think the burns from the
      rocket launcher lasted longer than anything else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's familiar: fire and acid... What mineral is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? It was like four months before I ran out of better
      leads than that. I think it's chert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's interesting..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's really not. It's a relatively common rock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No? Doesn't chert mean flint? Like, the stuff that's really
      hard and therefore the material of choice for stone age tools and
      producing sparks to start fires? The fire connection seems like it
      might have some potions-magic related significance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, that... might be interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fire and acid..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would they slow a troll's healing process?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How quickly can <em class="calibre7">you</em> heal when you're on fire?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's kind of my point: I wouldn't. When most life is exposed
      to fire, cells are damaged and killed until they stop being exposed
      to fire. Troll healing is extremely fast compared to non-magical
      wound healing but it's not instant. In principle, if a fire is hot
      enough it should kill a troll's cells faster than it can regenerate
      them, and it should eventually die or even burn up completely. And
      if the fire isn't hot enough to kill a troll then the troll should
      regenerate cells more quickly than they're damaged, so the fire
      shouldn't do any noticeable damage. Same with acid, it should
      either progressively make troll-juice, or not do much at all. But
      that's not what happens. Instead, it just slows down the troll's
      healing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So something you believe is wrong. Namely, that... (the word
      hypothesis is probably being generous) you just made up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How does flint relate to acid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh- it's like a type of quartz, and silicates are usually
      pretty acid resistant, I think. Unless it's hydrofluoric?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it would actually be useful to have it over your skin if you
      were exposed to acid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except for the obvious practical problems, you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'd think pretty much any mineral would be better than skin
      against fire. What if it's purposeful? Like trolls transfigure a
      mineral layer when exposed to fire or acid to protect themselves
      from further damage, even though it delays their healing until the
      fire or acid is absent? Like a magical immune system?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're about to suggest setting me on fire as an experiment,
      aren't you? I can tell because you still haven't given me back my
      wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right." Harry absently retrieved two wands from his pouch
      and tossed them to her, "It's probably one of those. And that
      reminds me..." He turned and cast a stupify at Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued, "Ultraviolet light is ionizing radiation. It
      can damage DNA and kill cells; that's what a sunburn is. Maybe
      troll magic interprets a sunburn as close enough to a regular burn.
      An overreaction of a magical immune system analogous to an
      allergy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed loudly, then pointed her wand at her other hand
      and cast incendio. "Huh. You may be right", she commented while
      tapping on the mineralized patch of skin that formed where the fire
      had impinged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you tried using the highest-powered sunscreen you can
      find?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or, there's probably a relatively common charm wizards use
      instead to keep from getting sunburned. That's probably what
      Voldemort used on the troll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know whether to hug you or strangle you right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I get that a lot. Also, as strong as you are, those really
      aren't mutually exclusive..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones shook her head sadly, "This is all such a mess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody looked pointedly at Harry, "Let this be a lesson: the next
      time you defeat a Voldemort mind-clone, just kill it. Everything is
      simpler before the damn bureaucrats get involved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "How was I supposed to know he was telling the
      truth about Ginny's... mind? identity? having being destroyed? No
      one else who touched the diary suffered permanent harm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody continued staring at Harry, "We don't know that for sure.
      I believe I broke Ginny's occlumency barrier. I determined that she
      found the diary while snooping in her brother Ronald's room. After
      interrogating him, I concluded that someone passed it to him, but
      it ended up in a junk pile under his bed apparently without him
      having touched it or payed much attention to it at all. But he did
      have some memories of having seen it so at least that much of what
      I got from Ginny is likely to be true. So the likely explanation is
      that the diary passed from Lucius to Draco to Tracey to Daphne to
      Lavender to Ron to Ginny, but there's no way to be sure no one else
      was affected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione added, "I've been talking to students about what they
      saw. Lots of people remember Ginny having the diary, and carrying
      it with her regularly, since January. No one remembers seeing Draco
      with it at all, so he must have only used it when he was alone and
      had much less exposure than Ginny. The others only had the diary
      for a few hours. There wasn't time for what happened to her to have
      happened to anyone else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody frowned at Hermione, "You're assuming duration is the only
      factor that's important."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall asked, "Isn't there some way to keep Ginny in DMLE
      custody until... I don't know, until someone decides she's safe to
      be around people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones groaned, "Her parents found out that she was at St.
      Mungo's and went to see her. Preventing a ministry department head
      from removing his child from custody when said child hasn't been
      formally accused of anything is... to be blunt, the first unanimous
      Wizengamot vote in history would be to remove the acting head
      Warlock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall countered, "But she <em class="calibre7">killed</em> people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones sighed, "Legally, a basilisk killed people. We can't prove
      she created the basilisk, we can't prove that she controlled it,
      and even if she did, she was under the control of the diary at the
      time and can't be held responsible. All you can do is... be
      vigilant. Get some evidence of her doing something wrong so we can
      do something about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody added, "Or, you know, just <em class="calibre7">handle</em> the situation
      before witnesses show up next time. It's a lot easier for the
      government to conveniently ignore lots of evidence than to do
      something without a mountain of paperwork."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry asked, "About the basilisk... why did Ginny/Riddle create
      one? What was the plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was one of the most ridiculous plans I've ever heard. It's
      part of why I'm suspicious that she may have only pretended that
      her occlumency barrier failed. But if my information is correct,
      she was trying to create a horcrux for Slytherin's basilisk by
      hatching and sacrificing her own basilisk. Because she believed
      Slytherin's basilisk would share Interdicted spells with her. She
      had no idea whether it's possible to create a horcrux for a
      basilisk, to use the death of a basilisk to create a horcrux, to
      create a horcrux for an already dead body, to revive a dead body
      using a horcrux rather than possessing a live person, or even if
      all of that worked, whether the result would retain Interdicted
      information it had died with. She was trying to figure out how it
      would all work, but rushed ahead after her basilisk escaped and
      killed those students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry exhaled slowly, "I believe Slytherin's basilisk is where
      Voldemort got much of his knowledge of Interdicted magic. I've been
      thinking about reviving it myself. Even after being dead for
      decades, it hasn't decomposed, so basilisks must be so toxic that
      even bacteria and fungi can't survive on them. Therefore its brain
      may still be intact. And I'm a parselmouth, so the danger of it
      killing anyone is negligible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone shouted variants of, "no, that's crazy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione added, "Harry, don't start creating new monsters. We
      already have enough problems to deal with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry conceded, "Fine, I'll wait to bring it up again until we
      have fewer problems. Or an urgent need to learn Interdicted
      spells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a pause, McGonagall asked, "What about Lockhart? Was he
      kissed by a dementor, or can the healers do something to help
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They can't help him. He never had liquid luck. He inherited an
      unregistered time-turner a few years ago. He'd been using it so he
      could invisibly watch dangerous situations first, then go back and
      act. So he always knew what was coming, what he had to do, and what
      he could get away with. And, understandably, he considered being
      Hogwarts defense professor dangerous, so he tried not to stay in
      the castle for more than six hours at a time. And if he hadn't
      spent an extra six hours in Brazil, he may have been able to use
      the same trick to avoid getting possessed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, "That explains a lot. I wonder if everyone who
      claims to be able to brew 'liquid luck' is just covering up a
      secret time turner, like an advanced model spimster wicket."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones questioned, "And what happened to that horcrux?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody sighed, "It flew away. Literally. Voldie drove Lockhart to
      the tower with the owls. He handed the Hufflepuff Cup to an owl and
      it took off. Lockhart was free from Voldie, but not from time. The
      last thing he'd seen before time-turning was a dementor advancing
      on his future self. He was compelled to walk into our trap,
      thinking he was going to die. He has a serious case of temporal
      psychosis. Really, what's surprising is that he didn't go nuts
      earlier with the way he was playing with time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we'll add the Hufflepuff Cup to the ever-growing list of
      artifacts we have to track down. And presumably someone has
      obliviated Lockhart of Voldemort's memories?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That won't help temporal psychosis. And the cup doesn't seem to
      overwrite memories like the diary. It just takes over, leaving the
      victim aware of what's happening but unable to do anything about
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry added, "That implies that the Cup is Voldemort's new type
      of horcrux. The diary was clearly the original type, presumably
      made while Riddle was still was a student. And that implies that
      Voldemort wasn't really obliviated, and you guys can destroy
      this-", Harry removed a ring and sat it on the table, "-at your
      convenience. His horcrux network has some defense against
      obliviation, either blocking that spell from traveling through the
      network, or leaving a backup occasionally in case something
      defeated the network. He would have been careful enough to leave
      such a backup before that night last year, and probably would have
      left it with Bellatrix. The bottom line is that Voldemort is still
      out there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody nodded and picked up the ring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione asked, "Harry, you seem to be making a distinction
      between Voldemort and Tom Riddle. Aren't they the same person?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed humorlessly, "Yeah. By the way, you can probably
      take Ravenclaw's Diadem off your list of artifacts. I'm pretty sure
      I know what happened to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones looked surprised, "You know where it is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not exactly. If I had to guess, I'd say either the bottom of
      the ocean or deep underground. Or deep under the bottom of the
      ocean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not particularly helpful. Unless you think that means
      Voldemort will never get it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know I haven't actually interacted with young Tom Riddle,
      because it was always some Riddle personality merged with some of
      his host's personality, But there was enough of a pattern.
      Voldemort made a few comments about how he was stupid when he was
      younger and I had assumed he was talking about the standard process
      of learning and gathering experience that people do as they age,
      but after meeting his younger self, I realized it's something else.
      He was needlessly violent, had no self-control, spent little time
      planning, and was just... dumber. I think Draco-Riddle was
      significantly smarter than Ginny-Riddle, enough that I think Draco
      is smarter than original Tom Riddle was. And also, Voldemort once
      claimed that adding the resurrection stone to his horcrux network
      would allow him to possess people without requiring them to touch a
      horcrux. Either it didn't work out for him or he wants us to
      believe it didn't work, but the point is that his new horcrux spell
      allows him to use the magic of the objects he horcruxes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Therefore, I think Riddle found Ravenclaw's Diadem. And rather
      than just putting a standard horcrux (which would overwrite anyone
      who tried to use it) he decided to use it for himself. He wanted to
      be truly immortal, and found the old horcrux spell inadequate
      because of the merging effect and the loss of Interdicted
      knowledge. And he would've wanted to find a way to ensure he'd
      always be able to use the Diadem. The advanced horcrux spell he
      invented solved both problems: he was permanently linked to his new
      horcruxen so they updated their copy of his memories and kept his
      consciousness alive, and by making the Diadem a horcrux, he
      remained permanently linked to it as well. We don't urgently have
      to keep it away from him because he's effectively never taken it
      off. And that's why I make a distinction between pre-Diadem Tom
      Riddle and post-Diadem Dark Lord Voldemort. This year the later
      operated invisibly, mostly planting remote sensing devices to watch
      us, while the former was actively trying to obtain power and become
      Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked concerned, "Um, Harry, what about you? Does that
      mean we can't kill Voldemort without you getting dumber? And being
      unable to do world-saving stuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've never been linked to the horcrux network. He created a
      basic horcrux on me while he was linked to the Diadem. I believe I
      got a permanent copy of that effect: just like a portrait of a
      confunded person stays confunded, a horcrux of a Diadem-using
      person retains that ability."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody asked, "Isn't that academic? You don't have a way to
      actually find and destroy all of his horcruxen, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started casting privacy spells. After 15, he asked Moody
      to cast as many more as possible. While Moody complied, Harry cast
      the wide-area confundus detector.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After he was satisfied that everything was safe, Harry replied,
      "I think Luna can find them. I don't think Voldemort knows that or
      she wouldn't still be alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed, "Not this again. Harry, she's not a seer. She's
      said some things that were surprising or coincidental, that's
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, "You're half-right. She was never a seer,
      but she has a sense we don't. I suspect that her mother died trying
      to remove a horcrux spell from something, and it resulted in Luna
      being able to see through the horcrux network. Everything she's
      seen or known is something she could've seen through a horcrux or
      something Voldemort would've been spying on himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what evidence do you have for that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll admit it's mostly circumstantial..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded and smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except for one thing..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her smile faded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I got some of the details that I didn't hear originally about
      her mystery star that can't be seen in the Hogwarts' night sky.
      It's the sun... as seen from Pioneer 11."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">As they walked down another flight of stairs, Harry glanced out
      the window. "Why is it snowing outside? It's June!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody smirked, "You're asking me? I was going to ask for your
      theory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough. I wonder what would happen if I flew outside and
      looked back at the castle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know but I'd recommend against it. Is this the highest
      you've ever been in Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably. I can't see the ground anymore through the snow, so
      this is probably high enough. Let's set up on this floor.
      Fawkes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix cawed and burned away. He quickly returned with a
      few of the healers Moody had recruited. A second later, Crookshanks
      arrived with Hermione and the rest of the healers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So no problems getting here, I take it?", Harry asked
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head, "I don't know how it works, but they can
      either follow each other or communicate a destination somehow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry addressed the healers, "I'm going to teach you all a new
      healing spell today-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone interrupted him, "Mad-eye, did you bring us here to be
      lectured by a ten-year-old?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody scoffed, "I brought you here because this place is now
      more secure than Azkaban ever was. Phoenix travel is the only way
      in, and phoenix or portkey are the only ways out. I'm thinking that
      time here isn't even synchronized with the rest of the world.
      Anyway, have fun." He triggered a portkey and was teleported back
      to the empty hospital front at the edge of the Hogwarts
      grounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued, "I probably should have asked earlier; can any
      of you cast a patronus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They looked at him skeptically, but shook their heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not surprised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that supposed to mean? You don't think healers can be
      good or happy people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing like that; let's go over the wand movements..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A short time later, Harry was satisfied, "Everything I'm about
      to tell you is covered under your non-disclosure oaths. Dementors
      are a magical representation of death and animal patroni represent
      a kind of immunity-by-ignorance to the fear of death. Healers are
      regularly confronted with death, so it doesn't surprise me that you
      can't just forget about it with happy thoughts. There is a stronger
      patronus charm which is powered not by hiding from death but by
      defiantly confronting it, and that's the form you will all need to
      learn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The healers appeared skeptical, but they were listening
      carefully. Harry un-transfigured a stretcher, then took a coin from
      his pouch, placed it on the stretcher and un-transfigured it as
      well. It was Cedric's corpse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The healers stepped forward, casting analytic charms. One stated
      the obvious, "He's dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued, "Yeah, a basilisk killed several students this
      week... The mission of this hospital isn't merely to heal the sick
      and injured. It's not even to heal people who can't be healed
      anywhere else. Its mission is nothing less than to defeat death. We
      aren't done until no one dies ever again. So we're going to revive
      them. Pay close attention; I suspect this moment will be your
      patronus-powering-happy-thought for the near future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got into the patronus charm starting stance. Fawkes flew
      over, perched on his left shoulder, and screeched confidently.
      Harry moved his wand, then shouted, "Expecto patronum!". Cedric lit
      up from inside. Harry could feel... life flow from Fawkes through
      himself and into his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again, the healers stepped forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's breathing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His heart rate is 50 beats per minute and climbing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His internal temperature is rising fast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry interrupted, "We have 5 more students and even more aurors
      from Bellatrix's attack. We may not be able to revive all of
      them... today. But it's a step forward."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The esteemed members of the Wizengamot were bickering as
      usual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An institution that exists solely to help people, healed dozens
      of presumed-dead aurors, and you want to destroy it with
      bureaucracy. What the hell is wrong with you?", Ogden demanded
      angrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge smiled, "With all due respect, I don't think you
      realize how improper it is to have an organization that powerful
      working independently of the Ministry. Would they even obey the
      orders of the Wizengamot? Other countries are starting to contact
      them. It's undermining our foreign policy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never thought I'd see the day", Harry began. "I've mostly
      only read about you, of course, but it's a day for the history
      books when you and the Goblin Nation are on the same side of an
      issue. People may expect a kid like me to be afraid of a goblin
      army, but I thought you'd be all 'let them come, we've put down
      rebellions before and will do it as often as they make us.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge turned toward him and sputtered for a few seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry began again "Or is it something else? Would you support
      the hospital if they were willing to fix that human-toad thing
      you've been cursed with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A large portion of the Wizengamot, an organization known for its
      pretense of dignity and solemnity, erupted in a very undignified
      laughing fit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the laughter died down, Harry spoke again, "Weren't we going
      to talk about werewolves today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone nearby replied, "Oh, no. That was just added to the
      schedule a few days ago. We won't get to it for weeks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone else added, "We should really talk about the goblins. We
      need to find out what they have against a wizard hospital and then
      decide how many of them we have to kill to make a point..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a flash of regret, not for the first time, that he
      hadn't cleaned out the governing body with a dementor when he'd had
      the chance.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry! I was hoping I'd find you after the Wizengamot meeting
      was finished."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's thoughts could best be summarized as a resigned, "Oh,
      crap." It was Arthur Weasley. Harry turned to face him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur continued, "Thank you so much for saving my daughter. If
      there's anything I can do for you, don't hesitate to ask."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... I was told that I was too late..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nonsense. I know my daughter. She's been through a lot but
      she's already mostly back to her old self. All she needed was some
      time back with her family."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry attempted to find an expression more appropriate than a
      blank stare, but was unable to think of anything appropriate other
      than 'totally horrified'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur continued, "In fact, I think you should come back to my
      house to dinner to meet my family. I mean, you know most of us
      already, so I guess, just meet Molly. And I have lots of muggle
      artifacts that I'm sure you'll find interesting. I insist!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After more time during which Arthur said irrelevant things and
      Harry was unable to tell the man he was harboring a monster in his
      home, Harry found himself flooing to the Weasley home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron scowled at Harry, "What's <em class="calibre7">he</em> doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Manners, Ron!" Arthur chastised. "Where's your mother?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron shrugged, "Everyone else went... I don't remember. It wasn't
      Diagon Alley or Hogsmeade. They would have been fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur pulled a calculator from his robes and began tapping at
      it. "Oh, Harry, I'm so sorry. It's not working. I swear this hasn't
      not worked here in years. Not since my son Bill still lived
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron frowned, "I remember that summer. Bill didn't play with us
      at all because of that arithmancy tutor. He spent the whole summer
      at the kitchen table doing homework so he could take the second
      year arithmancy elective with his friends. And you spent the whole
      summer complaining about things not working."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down at his pouch, "I do have an arithmancy book
      with me. Maybe it matters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur shrugged, "Try putting it in Bill's room, and we'll see
      what happens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry walked to the stairs, Ron got up and followed him,
      quietly warning, "You'd better not try anything. I'm onto you."
      Harry rolled his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they reached the second landing, Arthur called, "It works
      now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry set the pouch on the stairs, and he and Ron began
      descending again. Arthur called out, "now it's off again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry backtracked and Ron followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought for a moment. "Ron, walk about halfway down the
      stairs. We have to determine if it's you or me or both."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron scowled, "Of course it's you." But he turned and took a few
      steps down. While his back was turned, Harry pulled the Elder Wand
      out of his robes and put it into the pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron called, "Dad, it's still working, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron turned back to Harry, "Told you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged and walked toward him, "How about now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's still on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pushed past Ron and ran back to the kitchen. He typed a
      calculation into the device to confirm the result and exclaimed,
      "This is big! What's the fastest way to the ministry?" He ran back
      up the stairs to retrieve his pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur asked, "I don't... You want to talk to Minister Fudge? I
      don't know if this is something he'd be interested in, but I could
      introduce you..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While running back, Harry replied, "No, I have to tell Chief
      Warlock Bones about this."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You requested an urgent meeting, Mr. Potter?", Bones asked, not
      bothering to hide her annoyance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We just made an important discovery. You know how muggle
      technology doesn't work at Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and I know how obsessed you are with that stuff-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not all magic; technology only seems to be affected by
      objects and texts covered by Merlin's Interdict!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh...", Bones straightened in her chair, giving them her full
      attention. "So muggle devices can be used to determine whether
      something is genuinely Interdicted or a forgery? Or determine if
      something valuable is nearby?" Harry had started nodding while Bone
      was talking. She continued, "How close do they have to get? Is it
      the same for all muggle devices? Is there a way to include a
      point-me spell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those are questions that it would be a very good idea to find
      answers for. I suspect some things, like cameras with telephoto
      lenses or laser range-finders or parabolic microphones may
      experience a directional effect at longer ranges, but that will
      require some-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Mr. Weasley, I'm going to have Fudge assign additional
      personnel to your department to take over... your department's
      usual functions, so you can make this your highest priority. Do you
      understand what's required of you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur stared forward, his mouth opening and closing as he
      struggled for a sentence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a pause, Bones continued, "Well, feel free to address any
      questions to Mr. Potter. And make an appointment as soon as you
      have something the aurors or unspeakables can field test." After
      another pause, she added, "Was there anything else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arthur shook his head and backed out the door. Harry met Bones'
      eyes and inclined his head slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outside the office, Arthur still had a slight deer-in-headlights
      look. Ron inquired, "What happened in there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, I'm not totally sure, but I think I got promoted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inside the office, Bones stared at Harry, "What else do you
      need, Mr. Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you've studied a lot of old texts looking for forgotten
      magic. I assume you're familiar with the pattern of spells having a
      second and more powerful hidden version?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones nodded slowly, "I'd ask how <em class="calibre7">you</em> know that, but I
      suppose it's one of those many things Voldemort managed to tell you
      during those brief hours you were with him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you ever heard of a second level fidelius charm? A
      confundus that, rather than hiding a specific, relatively small
      area from detection, can hide information? For example, the
      instructions to a spell? And is powerful enough to cover the whole
      world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones smiled slightly, "The first person wise enough to discover
      such a spell would likely use it to hide knowledge of itself. What
      would be written down?" Her smile faded and her eyes widened, "You
      think it was Merlin. A higher level fidelius that blurs information
      unless a secret keeper gives one the secret. One living mind to
      another. It does fit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If someone tries to use a spell to copy an Interdicted text, is
      it copied, or does the spell fail to produce anything useful?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are spells that can copy Interdicted texts, but both
      texts remain Interdicted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does it matter whether the person casting the copying spell has
      the secret or not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At the DMLE, I've seen copies of things in evidence that I
      could read and know that the aurors who made the copies could not.
      It's not a transfer of information to a living mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin knew. That's the only explanation. The disruption of
      technology isn't an accident or side-effect of something else. It's
      a deliberate part of Merlin's Interdict. That makes the pattern
      obvious: only technology capable of storing or transmitting
      information is affected in order to prevent it from storing or
      transmitting Interdicted information. That's why I could
      transfigure working calculator circuits but a commercial calculator
      didn't work: I made a calculator that used combinatorial logic
      while everyone else makes sequential logic calculators. You type a
      number and it has to store it while you type another number. It
      explains why radio receivers work but not transmitters. Centuries
      earlier than everyone else, Merlin knew that muggles would develop
      technology that could break his Interdict unless he took steps to
      prevent it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's face took on a look of determination, "I don't know how
      to break the Interdict of Merlin, but for the first time, I know
      something about what that solution will look like."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
