<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 5: Azkaban 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Azkaban 2.0</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During the summer after the events of HPMOR, Harry remains
      deeply concerned about the fate of the world, despite Hermione
      obtaining a phoenix and destroying Azkaban's dementors, Moody
      having made progress toward a functional Philosopher's Stone based
      hospital, and Bones apparently grudgingly willing to take his cues
      on national policy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody is suspicious of Gilderoy Lockhart, McGonagall's new hire
      for Defense professor. But that's nothing new, and Moody has found
      no evidence of wrongdoing in spite of putting some effort into
      investigating him. Moody, Bones, McGonagall, and Hermione are all
      concerned about Harry's apparent desire to release Voldemort from
      the ring in order to question him about the mirror and help rescue
      Dumbledore. Sprout has mysteriously received a gift: the long-lost
      and apparently cursed Hufflepuff Cup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco is angry at the world; at the perceived failures and
      betrayals of everyone around him. In a flash of incite, Draco
      concludes that Harry is Voldemort and is the biggest threat to
      magical society. He begins planning to amass power for the
      inevitable battle.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry nodded, a slight shiver going through him. "Um, when
      you told me about what happened in Godric's Hollow, on Halloween
      night, in 1981 I mean, um... I thought I saw another flaw in your
      reasoning. A way you could have avoided disaster. But, um, I think
      you have a blind spot, a class of strategies you don't consider, so
      you didn't see it even afterward-"<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry swallowed a lump in his throat. "There wass way for
      you to tesst your horcrux ssysstem without dying. The general
      lesson is important. Do you see it now?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"No," Professor Quirrell said after a while. "And I do hope
      your lesson is a sensible one, for your sake."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Suppose, Professor, that I learned how to cast the improved
      horcrux spell and I was willing to use it. What would I do with
      it?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Professor Quirrell answered at once. "You would find some
      person whom you found morally abhorrent and whose death you could
      convince yourself would save other lives, and murder them to create
      a horcrux."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"And then what?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Make more horcruxes," said the Defense Professor. He picked
      up a jar of what looked like dragon scales.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Before that," Harry said.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">After a time the Defense Professor shook his head. "I still
      do not see it, and you will cease this game and tell me."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I would make horcruxes for my friends. If you'd ever really
      cared about one single other person in the entire world, if there'd
      been just one person who gave your immortality meaning, someone
      that you wanted to live forever with you -" Harry's throat choked.
      "Then, then the idea of making a horcrux for someone else wouldn't
      have been such a counterintuitive thought." Harry was blinking
      hard. "You have a blind spot around strategies that involve doing
      nice things for other people, to the point where it stops you from
      achieving your selfish values. You think... it's not your style, I
      suppose. That... particular part of your self-image... is what cost
      you those nine years."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I see..." the Defense Professor said slowly. "I see. I
      should have taught Rabastan the advanced horcrux ritual, and forced
      him to test the invention. Yes, that is supremely obvious in
      retrospect. For that matter, I could have ordered Rabastan to try
      marking himself onto some disposable infant, to see what happened,
      before I took myself to Godric's Hollow to create you." Professor
      Quirrell shook his head bemusedly. "Well. I am glad I am realizing
      this now and not ten years earlier; I had enough to chide myself
      for at that time."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"You don't see nice ways to do the things you want to do,"
      Harry said. His ears heard a note of desperation in his own voice.
      "Even when a nice strategy would be more effective you don't see it
      because you have a self-image of not being nice."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"That is a fair observation," said Professor Quirrell.
      "Indeed, now that you have pointed it out, I have just now thought
      of some nice things I can do this very day, to further my
      agenda."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry just looked at him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Professor Quirrell was smiling. "Your lesson is a good one,
      Mr. Potter. From now on, until I learn the trick of it, I shall
      keep diligent watch for cunning strategies that involve doing
      kindnesses for other people. Go and practice acts of goodwill,
      perhaps, until my mind goes there easily."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Cold chills ran down Harry's spine.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Professor Quirrell had said this without the slightest
      visible hesitation.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Lord Voldemort was absolutely certain that he could never be
      redeemed. He wasn't the tiniest bit afraid of it happening to
      him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry awoke with a groan and checked the time. Four o'clock in
      the morning. Harry pushed himself to his feet, groaning again. At
      least he'd be able to get some work done before Moody arrived and
      prevented him from doing anything useful for the rest of the
      day...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The silence in Harry's office was interrupted by a pop as a
      short, long-eared creature appeared. "What the hell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hogwarts is being too dangerous, Harry Potter must leave
      Hog-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The creature teleported away just in time to avoid the burst of
      stunners aimed at and around it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cursed as she metamorphosed into Auror Tonks, while Harry
      pulled back the hood of his invisibility cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, "That was new. I was expecting something
      to take advantage of the interruption in the wards, but certainly I
      wasn't expecting that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks smirked, "I thought being a body-double slash body-guard
      for a twelve-year-old was silly before, but now that I know Moody
      sent me to protect you from rogue house elves... Yeah, that's
      probably the weirdest thing I've seen this week. It's been a slow
      week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's been a pretty full week for me, though that's probably in
      my top ten. It could have been much worse; Moody was probably
      expecting some new incarnation of Voldemort to appear and that
      you'd have to sacrifice yourself to fake my death or at least stall
      the attack long enough for him to bring reinforcements."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks frowned, "That... is probably closer to the truth than you
      think it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm still surprised he, and the headmistress, agreed to allow
      the warding specialists to interrupt some of the wards to study how
      they interact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, and it's really too bad the creature detection ward is
      down. It would have been nice to know where that elf came from or
      ran away to. People always make investigations harder than they
      ought to be."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones stepped through the floo and glared at Hermione,
      specifically, at her phoenix. "Of course you two were responsible
      for Azkaban. I never doubted it for a moment, but there's the
      smoking responsible adults cleaned up your mess without incident
      <em class="calibre7">this time</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Hermione, "Yeah, you probably need to keep the
      phoenix hidden from teachers, students, etc. for a while. Like
      until the next time you do something heroic and dangerous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess even Fawkes wouldn't go along with a prison break",
      Moody added. "How did you get another phoenix, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry answered, "The normal way; when someone plans on doing
      something heroic and crazy and dangerous, one shows up somehow. I'm
      still investigating the details. Also, since when has Azkaban
      blocked phoenix travel? I remember Fawkes took Dumbledore
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if <em class="calibre7">someone</em> had told me about what you were
      planning, I probably would have explained the new wards. It's not
      like I can predict what crazy things you're going to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "Fair enough-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione interrupted, "Fawkes probably would have helped. We
      could have waited and come up with an actual plan and found out
      about the anti-phoenix wards and the tripping jinxes and everything
      else.I didn't think about it at the time, but it really wasn't
      urgent that I left at that second."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones added, "Or if we'd seriously tried, we may have been able
      to convince the Wizengamot to close the prisonwithout the
      vigilantism."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes, "It was urgent. You only get one chance
      to accept a phoenix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione scowled, "I thought you guys tried to get the
      Wizengamot to close the prison. And basically concluded it wasn't
      going to happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, I just had Bones say that so you'd be in the right
      state of mind to attract a phoenix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you lied to me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's very, very important that you have a phoenix. The
      safest way to get one is to plan a mission one believes is urgent
      and dangerous but really isn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should have asked first; you promised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That wouldn't have worked. For a phoenix to show up, you need
      to believe you're doing the right thing, that it's going to be
      dangerous even with help from a phoenix, and again, you only get
      one chance. And I wish someone had manipulated me into getting a
      phoenix. Although if I'd known your phoenix would be defective, I
      might not have bothered with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As glad as I am to have Hermes, you have to stop manipulating
      people like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been meaning to ask about that name; the messenger of the
      gods. Does that mean you've found a new ambition?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't change the subject, Harry-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall interrupted, "Actually, if you can postpone this
      fight until later, I assume there are more important topics on the
      agenda?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones nodded, "Bellatrix was at Gringotts. The goblins have been
      spectacularly unhelpful but we've been able to determine that she
      flooed in a few weeks ago, accessed her vault, and left without
      incident. The floo system reported unexpected activity at the Black
      family home to the DMLE, but it looked like she had moved on at
      least a week earlier and there are no further leads and no usable
      witness reports."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned, "No one saw her at Gringotts? She was there
      during normal business hours, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones scowled, "We've tracked down a few people who apparently
      saw her. You'd think people would recognize the most wanted woman
      in magical Britain, but apparently not if she dyes her hair
      blond."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry asked, "Not even with a missing arm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"According to the witnesses, her limbs were intact and there was
      nothing suspicious about her. Basically no one knows anything
      useful. The bottom line is you should stay inside the wards here
      until she's apprehended."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of the which, did the ward specialists learn
      everything they needed to know to set something up at
      Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody chuckled, "The only thing they learned was how much they
      don't know. They said they'll need to investigate for at least a
      year to be able to make even simple modifications."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scowled, "That's totally unacceptable. How about this as a
      temporary alternative: We build the arrival and departure rooms
      outside the wards as planned, with hallways that lead underground.
      But instead of building an underground hospital, we just leave it
      as two rooms, from which Hermes teleports people to random rooms in
      Azkaban. Fawkes holds the Philosopher's Stone and takes it to the
      rooms where it's needed. We recruit someone in each of the world's
      major magical hospitals to report their terminal patients, after
      which someone stuns, time-turns, and then teleports them to the
      arrival room. After treatment, they're taken to wait in the
      departure room and returned to the hospital the instant they
      left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody nodded, "The basics sound workable; Azkaban does have
      pretty solid warding to start with. I'll work out the details for
      the hospital liaisons, which will take a little time, but I should
      be able to get St. Mungo's on board within the week. International
      hospitals may present some issues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Other governments have three general options: to cooperate, to
      stall, or to actively try to attack or sabotage the hospital. We
      need a situation where cooperation is the Nash equilibrium choice
      for each government. Countries shouldn't interfere if the likely
      outcome of that interference (including reactions by other
      countries) is worse than the status quo. I'll have to think more
      about it, but I'd guess that threatening to withhold treatment from
      leaders of countries that do annoying things would probably be
      sufficient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones smirked, "You make it sound like politics should be an
      arithmancy exercise. Let me know how that works out for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know there are more details to work out there, and your
      advice would be appreciated. Take some time to think it over and
      we'll talk about it later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones nodded unenthusiastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there any news about Peter?", McGonagall asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones sighed. "At the moment, no one knows where he is. As you
      know, Peter Pettigrew was taken from Azkaban to St. Mungo's weeks
      ago. Physically, he was reportedly recovering, psychologically, not
      so much. He hadn't spoken or demonstrated any magical ability,
      including metamorphosing back to his original form. Then he
      disappeared from the hospital."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh...", Harry began. "Wait, never mind..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he was Sirius after all then", Moody concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones replied, "Well, the investigators can't be sure it was
      really Sirius who was killed by Voldemort. They don't know
      anything. That's not in report i mean, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can certainly understand someone who was imprisoned for a
      decade without a trial fleeing magical Britain at their earliest
      opportunity," McGonagall argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry concluded, "There are four general possibilities, between
      which I can't distinguish with the current evidence: One, Sirius
      became a death eater, betrayed my parents, then got Peter
      imprisoned in his place. Two, Sirius was a death eater, but ended
      up in Azkaban while metamorphosed Peter was killed by Voldemort
      that night. Three, Peter was the traitor but was smart and/or
      cowardly enough to use Sirius' form to do illegal things,
      eventually getting Sirius arrested in his place. And four, Peter
      used Sirius' appearance as a death eater, but Sirius then got Peter
      justly arrested. So basically, I think we know less now than we
      thought we knew a few weeks ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think that changes anything", Bones replied. "Aurors
      will continue to search for him, and we'll get it settled after
      they apprehend him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He could be a security threat, but with reduced magic and
      likely limited mental function, he's unlikely to be more dangerous
      than anyone else", Moody added. "Speaking of suspicious and
      probably dangerous people, what are you planning to do about
      Lockhart?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall answered dryly, "pay him to teach defense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a mistake. That man is either into something so dark I
      don't know how to detect it or he's just been lucky. Either way,
      he's a bad choice for a defense teacher."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry interjected, "I'm surprised you believe in luck,
      actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody's human eye stared at Harry, "It'll be in your 6th or 7th
      year potions text. Only a few wizards have ever been able to brew
      it, so I assume he bought, inherited, or stole some."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lowered his face into his hands. "A potion that makes
      luck? You've got to be kidding me. With instructions that everyone
      knows about but almost no one can use? Why does that sound
      familiar? It's got to be another cover story for some secret
      artifact. I guess that's another entry for the list of artifacts we
      need to collect." Harry looked around the room, "So is there
      anything else we need to talk about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones shrugged, "It's probably nothing but you get weird about
      these things. Some aurors reported a glowing person rising through
      the core of Azkaban after the dementors disappeared. One of the
      muggleborns referred to it as an angel and a handful of people are
      convinced it's part of some muggle end-of-the-world prophecy and
      are taking the whole thing far more seriously than I'd consider
      healthy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A messenger of a different god", Harry smirked. "Hermione, I'm
      definitely noticing a pattern..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione walked down a random hallway. She was trying to decide
      for how long she should refuse to speak to Harry, or if there were
      a more effective behavior modification method, when Professor
      Sprout walked through an intersection and paused to talk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, I'm sorry I haven't been available much this summer.
      I don't know how I got this busy. I heard you passed a fair number
      of OWLs anyway, so congratulations; that's very impressive. Anyway,
      one of the projects I've been working on involves some really
      interesting charms research that I could use some help with, if
      you're interested..."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
