<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest - Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest Chapter 12, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Chapter 11</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Idly tapping his cheek, Tom was sitting at his desk, looking
      down at the pages of the old potions book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That might do. If done correctly it should all seem very
      natural.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He committed the relevant text to memory before closing the
      book, then walked to his trunk, but hesitated to replace it in its
      hiding spot. Should he burn the book instead? The hidden
      compartment would only react to his own wand, true, but couldn't
      they take it from him? He wouldn't put it past Dumbledore to look
      everywhere, if it came to light that such a plot existed. Assuming
      that he could really hide anything from Dumbledore was foolish,
      even back at full strength...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet, burning the book and vanishing the ashes seemed like a true
      crime. Silly things like blackmail or appropriate killings were
      irrelevant. Burning this valuable book would actually be a crime.
      There was little if any chance of ever replacing it, and even if he
      never truly needed the book again in his life, it was always better
      to be able to read a book than not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm going to need an appropriate hiding place outside of the
      school for my more valuable things. I should have had one already,
      it's foolish to assume my wards can't be broken into.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom set the book down on his bed, considered, then set his wand
      down beside it. He then leaned forward and performed the
      appropriate rites that opened the hidden drawer of the trunk. It
      contained a couple of books and a few more questionable items:
      ward-breaking glasses, maps of a few of the known passages out of
      the school, his spare invisibility cloak, and one of those
      ridiculous fanged Frisbee's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked at the Frisbee for a moment and let out a small
      chuckle. Anyone who did find the hidden compartment would not look
      twice, the toy was against the rules, and that was why it was
      hidden. Unless they happened to think about why Tom Riddle would
      have a novelty toy. Against the rules, yes, but not at all
      something Riddle would have owned. He pulled it from the drawer and
      held it up in front of his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"A wizard isn't born into the world possessing magic; rather
      he is born into a world full of magic to possess."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Marwyn's writing. He let the forming incantation slip from his
      mind. There was magic all around him, the stones of the castle
      themselves heated the air with a faint tingle of magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom let go of the Frisbee as he closed his eyes, and it floated
      perfectly still in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Fire…</em> There was fire in the room; the torches on the
      wall had inherent power that most people would never realize. The
      room seemed to heat up a few degrees at the thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom simply pictured ghostly translucent flames being drawn from
      thin air toward the toy, and suddenly he felt the heat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He opened his eyes and smiled as he watched it burn up into
      nothing, as the device let out a quiet but pained scream. That made
      Tom laugh out loud, and he found himself with a new appreciation
      for whoever created the toy. Perhaps he should get another after
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He returned his gaze to the apparent last drawer of his trunk.
      Closed his eyes briefly, and sensed nothing. Not being able to even
      detect your own enchantments was a very good sign; the concealment
      seemed secure. Then again, the school seemed secure; Tom knew all
      too well that security could be exploited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt around the bottom of the drawer, pushing things aside to
      rub his fingers along the seams. Ignoring the texture of wood on
      his fingers he focused on any note of lingering magic he could
      find.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I can't even feel it; there is no way to open it. The
      contents will burn up if any serious tampering happens.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But was that really good enough? Tom had apparently been playing
      too fast and loose. It seemed he had Dumbledore's attention now,
      and leaving any sort of loose ends within his grasp would be a
      mistake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No matter, nothing significant enough has happened to
      warrant this type of paranoia yet. There is plenty of time to cover
      my tracks once things are in motion.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom resolved to continue trusting in his hidden drawer for the
      moment, but to find a suitable place where he could hide anything
      he didn't want to have to destroy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grabbed his wand from his bed and pressed it to the bottom of
      the drawer, which gave off a faint blue glow as it lifted from
      place to reveal a much larger hidden compartment. He had already
      put <span>Ancient Secrets</span> back where it was accompanied by
      half a dozen other books with which he wouldn't want to be caught.
      Tom carefully placed <span>Potions of Old</span> into the
      compartment and took a quick mental inventory of what he had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The contents could raise a lot of questions, and somebody
      who cares to investigate properly could put me into some hot
      water…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom thought about what conclusions one might draw from the
      contents as he picked up the .45 semi-automatic pistol from the
      corner. He pressed the button to drop the magazine and check it to
      make sure that it was still fully loaded and hadn't been tampered
      with. He then pulled the slide back in one smooth practiced motion
      and caught the ejected cartridge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom stood and spun on his heel, swinging the pistol towards the
      door. He stopped with the sights directly lined up with the center
      of the frame, and he pulled the trigger three times in quick
      succession, <em class="calibre8">click click click.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a smirk he re-inserted the magazine and replaced it among
      the books, vials of multi colored potions, bracelets, rings and
      some other fun things that might prove useful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After resealing the drawer, he took a seat on his bed. He
      planned to leave a couple hours after curfew, when all the boring
      people were confined to their dorms, to explore the school and
      whatever happenings may or may not be happening. He was fairly sure
      he knew what to expect: Burke and his goons, going about scaring
      children who wandered the halls, calling it an "epic prank". Unless
      having a number of scared children was a necessary component to
      some larger plot, having been called into question over something
      so mundane was contemptible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What if it is a part of a larger plot? I hardly believe
      those morons are capable of stringing things together with any type
      of proper execution, but...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It all seemed like harmless pranks, reports of children chased
      off by a terrifying monster with no actual attacks or even real
      sightings. That could be a good cover up for something else,
      something darker. The administration certainly wasn't taking it too
      seriously, so a competent Dark wizard could hide nefarious goings
      on with an innocent explanation. Of course, he was the only
      competent Dark wizard among the student body - not that everyone
      else wasn't Dark, just not capable of what he was seeing. On the
      other hand, the Professors were more powerful, but he didn't think
      any of them were Dark. But that could just be prejudice. If it was
      a teacher, any of them had more access to the school, and more
      clout to get away with -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom shook his head. Then suddenly it struck him, if it was
      indeed a professor, one of them could be trying to get people upset
      only to "resolve" the situation later, in a grand heroic
      fashion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But who? Professor Merrythought? He had a slow-cooking plot to
      sabotage her reputation, but she hardly could seem more secure in
      her position. Still, on a quick skim of the staff, she would be the
      most likely to do something like that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then again, not everything was a plot orchestrated by some
      master player. As much as he wished life worked like that, more
      times than not he had to work to get himself involved in any
      interesting activities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What if there truly is some monster running around the
      school at night?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had to at least consider the surface story. It seemed
      ridiculous; there were wards against that type of thing, he knew
      all too well. Any creature that could be dangerous to the students
      shouldn't be able to get in without alarm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In theory. In practice, Tom had found quite a few loopholes in
      the wards, and he hadn't even considered exploiting the magical
      creature wards. Still, even if you could bring in something
      dangerous, why expose it by letting it scare children?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wiped his face. Thinking about it was all well and good, but
      no one could enumerate every possibility in the short time left
      before he was going to go and actually find out for himself. He was
      feeling a bit more wary, now, though. Especially as he was probably
      as powerful as an average third year at the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo would surely say that his recovery was going remarkably
      well, all things considered. Tom himself was unsatisfied; he had
      given up his Muggle weight training because he didn't have the
      patience for the slow results. He certainly wouldn't give up his
      magical training, but it had to happen more rapidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After his Animagus transformation, he had nearly depleted
      himself, but it had rushed back like a tidal wave, boosting him to
      a new apparent plateau. It had been incredible for the short time
      he was wielding his might against a powerful foe. He would not be
      satisfied until he not only reached that peak again, but surpassed
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if he was capable of transforming to a snake right now, it
      would do him no good. The actual effort of the first transformation
      had pushed him over some edge. There had to be other ways to
      expedite the process…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If I did get out of the castle and transform, I could hunt a
      unicorn… I'm not near death but it would likely restore my
      power.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom frowned and put the idea aside, he hardly needed more
      darkness start surrounding him at the moment. He could barely
      remember his brief scuffle with Monroe, since at the time he had
      hardly considered his actions, going off reflex, intuition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, damn," he said softly. Monroe was a prefect, after all,
      what if they ran into each other tonight? After all, it would
      hardly be surprising to see Monroe bullying scared children. If
      only the boy wasn't so bloody infuriating! The hostility between
      them really had to come down to a more reasonable level, and that
      wouldn't happen if they interacted tonight. He would simply avoid
      him, no matter what. Anyone else who saw him, he'd just say that
      since he had slept most of the day, he was restless. <em class="calibre8">That
      should end any questions or line of conversation.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After exiting his room, Tom warded his door quickly and walked
      towards the common room. A single person remained in the large
      room; Tom mentally kicked himself for thinking Monroe was the only
      person who could press his buttons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix Black was sitting in a chair near the fire, holding a
      book. Facing Tom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix. I had hoped that of all people, you would know
      better than to try and poke your nose in my business. Yet I cannot
      look at a mirror without seeing your head clumsily darting out of
      view."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix tried to seem taken aback. "I was not waiting for
      you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never said you were waiting for me. But, why were you waiting
      for me, Bella?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix stood up, the glare of the fire reflected in her eyes.
      Except that she wasn't facing the flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you'd want to know, Monroe is in the hospital wing!
      His girlfriend cursed him somehow, and broke two of his ribs!" She
      exclaimed with brief enthusiasm before calming to watch Tom's
      reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well, I did kick him from a full sprint… I probably should
      have considered healing him a little. I can't believe he would
      degrade himself by saying that he was defeated by a small girl,
      when he could have said he'd stood up to Tom Riddle! He could have
      even had me brought in front of Dippet... He must be afraid of me.
      Of course he is, but these seem to be actions that say "I've had
      enough Tom, you win." Or, it's a feint. Does he plan to strike in
      some other way perhaps?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom noticed that Bellatrix was still staring at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very good Bella, that is indeed humorous," he said, turning and
      walking away. After a few steps, he could tell Bellatrix was
      following him. He turned to her again and snapped, "Are you
      lost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's blank expression changed significantly and she
      sighed. "Yeah, I guess you could say that…" With that she turned
      and made her way towards the stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Strange girl… Though I will need to make use of her soon,
      it's a bad idea but I will approach it differently this time. Leave
      no room for misinterpretation or error on her part.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom shook his head at the difficulty that would present. He
      pushed that thought aside and started out on his way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If I was the average Hogwarts student trying to play shady
      games in the night I might consider the dungeons as an appropriate
      staging ground. I can also have a preliminary talk with Slughorn
      while I am down there. It will need to be done carefully, very
      natural and unassuming. I can't draw attention to the real
      question.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn leaned away from the pewter cauldron and
      wiped the sweat from his brow; it would do no good to let his
      fluids taint the work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three turns widdershins…" he recited from memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seventeen seconds of simmering… fifteen, fourteen..." He
      counted down to zero, when he emptied a vial of crushed leaves into
      the mixture and mashed them in carefully with a special wooden
      fork.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*<em class="calibre8">Tap Tap Tap</em>*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One moment!" Slughorn shouted to the door behind him as he
      swirled the potion from the center outwards, counting nine turns.
      The potion turned from a pale orange to a thick pus-colored fluid.
      The Professor extinguished the flames, admired the potion for a
      moment, and then turned to go to his door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hello Mr. Riddle. I had heard you were ill, shouldn't you
      be in bed so you're prepared for classes tomorrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy smirked at him. "Have no fear, sir, I'm always prepared
      for classes. Are classes prepared for me might be the better
      question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah hah hah!" Slughorn forced a laugh. The boy's arrogance was
      often amusing, and sometimes unsettling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was said that Tom had been exhausted from extensive study, so
      much so that he had missed classes today. Yet the boy looked more
      than fine. His mere presence seemed to dim the torches on the wall
      and cool the air, as though he drew power from it all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Over his years of teaching and personally knowing many powerful
      wizards, Professor Slughorn had an intuition for which students
      would do great things. He knew that Tom Riddle was a student with
      unmistakeable potential.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What can I do for you, ?" Slughorn asked, stepping from the
      doorway as Tom walked in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom walked in a few paces and sniffed the air. "That is foul,
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes it should be… You know, I think I burned out my nose
      long ago, Mr. Riddle." Slughorn sniffed the air and detected only
      the faintest odor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't," Tom said, sounding near annoyed. The boy pointed to
      the far end of the room with his finger and swept his hand across
      to the door as though he was ushering somebody out. As he gestured,
      a moderate breeze carried all of the smoke and fumes out the door
      and down the hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn blinked at that, and suddenly Tom's face was back to
      that of a calm and collected young man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom walked over to the cauldron and looked in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Careful, Mr. Riddle!" Slughorn said as he reached out to draw
      Tom away. He hesitated, however, and let his arm fall back to his
      side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't want to get any of that on you, my boy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom observed the potion for a long moment and then stepped back.
      "No, I expect not… Just what are you up to, Professor?" The boy
      cocked his head curiously as he looked into the professors
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah… Well you see, that is a potion for-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An extreme case of near untreatable itchy boils." Tom finished
      for him easily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn froze for a moment in fear. "Ha, ha well Tom, I guess I
      wasn't going to fool you by saying it was for growing hair… Even
      though the two are identical in smell, and close enough in
      color."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom waited a moment before speaking. "The length of your
      'moment' before you came to the door was far too short for it to be
      a follicle regeneration potion. That final step is forty-four
      turns, and a three minute simmering. But the fire was out when I
      came in. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn was taken aback. "Merlin save us! You really pieced it
      together from that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smirked for a moment and then sighed. "I'd love to say yes,
      but that only occurs to me now. Truthfully, I am familiar with this
      potion, and I noticed the faint orange swirls, which appear
      infrequently along the sides."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Slughorn replied, dazed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I actually wanted to have a conversation with you, sir,"
      Tom said before he turned away from the potion and took a seat on
      top of a desk at the front of the classroom. He gestured for the
      professor to take a seat at his own desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn was happy to oblige, and avoid any questions
      about why he was brewing such a nasty potion on his off time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Tom, what is it that I can help you with?" Slughorn pulled
      back his chair and took a seat at his large oak desk. He didn't
      fail to notice that he had to look up at the boy sitting on top of
      his own desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well sir, I spent today reading mostly, and I came across some
      interesting potions. Some of which I wouldn't believe existed,
      except for the fact that their creation seems plausible under the
      right circumstances."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn chuckled, "Ah yes, there are some curious ones." He
      leaned back and thought for a moment. "Felix Felicis comes to mind
      instantly. If we are to believe 'liquid luck' ever existed, then we
      are to believe that the potion literally created itself through
      sheer luck. One version of the tale has an earthquake knocking a
      certain ingredient off the shelf into a pot of poorly homebrewed
      fire whiskey. It then shook the ingredients together just right.
      Then, the would-be drunkard just happened to decide to use a
      special freezing charm on the potion and the fire in his
      kitchen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He chuckled again. "He didn't understand the effects. He knew he
      was lucky, but he kept testing it in insane ways. They say he ran
      around for days chasing thunder storms. He would stand in the open
      as he watched lightning strike birds landing near him, or confused
      people who wandered over to ask him for directions to the quidditch
      world cup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom's face was blank. "What do they say happened to him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn shrugged. "His luck ran out I suppose! He was struck by
      several bolts at once during one of his experiments. It would seem
      almost as though the storms were taking vengeance on being
      manipulated." That idea made him laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom did not laugh; instead a serious look came over his face as
      he seemed to consider the idea for a moment. He then looked up.
      "That is a good one, sir, though I've heard of an even more
      interesting one. Very creative, the witch who made it was a genius.
      She managed to save her own life by creating it in a single week
      with nothing but knowledge and purpose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm, I'm not sure I am familiar with this, Tom, do go on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well sir, I hope you're not squeamish." He looked back towards
      the cauldron. When he looked to the professor again he had that
      smirk on his face again. "The potion does involve blood as the main
      component…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn lit up at that. "Ah yes, now I remember. That tale is
      even more fascinating than the luck potion, because we know it to
      be true! It was a shame how it all turned out in the end, very
      messy affair…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom left the office feeling content with his plan; Slughorn had
      alleviated all of his concerns. Not only that, it had been good
      timing to walk in on him brewing illegal potions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He is probably making all kinds of fun things for people
      with coin… Even if he ends up suspecting me because of that
      conversation, he knows that I am aware that he has some skeletons
      in his closet.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if he didn't get any clues as to what was happening after
      dark during his stroll, this had already been an extremely
      productive evening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had been walking for several minutes lost in thought, when
      suddenly he could feel somebody approaching around the corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">They must be powerful if I can feel them when I'm this
      weak…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom took a few steps back and moved into the center of the
      hallway. At the same time, he stretched his wrist back and forth a
      couple of times to loosen it up for a flawless wand-draw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A girl came around the corner, a sandy haired 4th year by the
      look of it. She was briefly startled when she suddenly walked into
      Tom standing his ground, but the look passed and she seemed
      annoyed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing?" Tom put authority into his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She flinched momentarily but regained her composure. "What are
      you doing? You're not a prefect…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well she obviously knows who I am; can't return the
      favor.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that's David Monroe. He apparently was cursed into oblivion
      by a young girl in a hallway. Maybe it was you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl laughed at the accusation. "Sam didn't curse him! He
      just got her angry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wanted to smile at that. The girl could have easily turned
      Tom in; she had to know that it was his doing that put Monroe out
      of commission. She was at least smart enough to keep her mouth
      shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I ask again, what are you up to at this hour? Miss…."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Brown."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom waited till she sighed and gave up. "I was going to say I
      have Dippet's permission, but I get the feeling that won't
      fly…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom nodded in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I'm not causing trouble, I just have business outside the
      school, ok?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom locked onto her gaze to see if she would flinch. Instead, in
      her eyes he found flashes of a young boy waiting outside the
      schools wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He blinked and the vision was gone; he hadn't really meant to
      probe her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That came a little too easily.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl didn't seem to notice that Tom had just peeked into her
      mind. He was unsure what to make of her, so he decided to make
      nothing of her for now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok, ok. I don't really care what you do." He stepped aside and
      let her past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she was a dozen paces away, Tom raised his wand, pointed at
      her boots and closed his eyes. He felt his magic flow out and embed
      itself in the fabric of the laces in her boots. They seemed to
      almost glow for a moment, but it faded as she turned a corner. She
      would never notice, but Tom could get a general idea of where she
      was tonight if he needed to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wards prevented student from tracking each other by all
      means of which Tom was aware. His magic wouldn't stick on to
      students themselves, or their wands (which would be the most
      effective way), or the clothes on their bodies. Yet the laces in
      their boots were fair game for some bizarre reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom put it down to a shift in style; the school boots probably
      didn't have laces in the start when the wards were set in the
      stones, simply because there's no use for laces in magical boots.
      Over the years however the style of clothing changed and started
      incorporating more things just for looks. Every time Tom thought he
      knew something about the schools wards he just found more
      questions, so he tried to not think about it too hard right
      now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It works, that's all I need to know at the moment.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He continued on his way around the castle, working his way up.
      Since he had bumped into "Miss Brown," nearly an hour had passed
      without event. The girl herself had left the wards and not
      returned, as far as Tom could tell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was making his way up a staircase when he heard muffled
      sounds around a corner a couple of floors up. He started to sprint
      up the stairs, and he caught a glimpse of a giant shape hauling
      something behind him. It disappeared around a bend, but Tom could
      still hear strange noises and grunting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was three steps and one leap away from the landing when the
      staircase suddenly moved beneath him and started swinging around.
      He had too much momentum to stop so he kept on, leapt for the
      ledge, and missed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the floor came rushing to meet him, Tom realized he didn't
      have time to use any magic, so he simply decided to roll into the
      landing as best he could. He did make the roll, but into a wall,
      and at a high speed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had always liked the dark humor in the idea of the moving
      staircase killing that girl, but he hadn't actually believed it.
      Now he was certain there was a horrible conspiracy to hide how
      bloody dangerous this thing was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">One thing at a time now… First of all, what in Merlin's name
      is that oaf up to?</em> Tom asked himself, as he slowly got up from
      the ground while wincing from the effort of it.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
