<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest - Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest Chapter 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Tom Riddle and Defense
      Class</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">note: Bellatrix Black is a contemporary of Tom Riddle in
      this story.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter Three – Tom Riddle and Defense
      Class</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Merrythought was of the opinion that in order to be a
      true warrior, you needed discipline in everything you do: be
      precise with everything, from the way you draw your wand, to the
      way you brush your teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom agreed fully with her on this point. Discipline made you
      learn self-control, made you harder and stronger. <em class="calibre8">Discipline
      makes you more dangerous.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom forced himself to practice constant vigilance. Even now,
      before anyone else had arrived to Defense, he scanned the room
      deeply, not just with his eyes, but also feeling for any hint of
      hidden magics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Probably at one point, the professor had held herself to the
      high standard she liked to stress. It was clear that her passion
      for battle had left her years ago, but her knowledge and insight
      never would. At least she had a clue what she was talking about.
      She also appreciated and rewarded enthusiasm and competence in her
      classes, unlike most teachers, who didn't seem to care one way or
      the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Truly, he didn't really like Professor Merrythought much. <em class="calibre8">If
      only the hypocrite still practiced what she preached</em>. It was
      obvious that she had in fact done some of the amazing feats years
      past - she often gloated them - but just as obviously, her days of
      slaying Inferi were over. <em class="calibre8">If only teachers took these things a
      little more seriously, perhaps the students wouldn't be so
      incompetent...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was certainly no Tobo Mott. Tom had learned far better
      lessons on how to stay alive in Mott's "extra-curricular
      activities" than any Ministry-approved Defence Against the Dark
      Arts class he had taken at Hogwarts. Tobo Mott was a man Tom could
      appreciate. He didn't look forward to the end of their "lessons"
      together, when he'd have to cast Tobo Mott down and Obliviate him
      into oblivion, or, more than likely, kill him. But the man knew far
      too much of what Tom was capable. <em class="calibre8">Not to mention, my payment
      for his lessons...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He did, however, look forward to the day when Headmaster Dippet
      would invite Tom into his office with a smile on his face. He would
      watch the crushing defeat in Galatea Merrythought's eyes when
      Dippet thanked her for her near 50 years of service, and informed
      her that Tom Riddle had shown the competence and aptitude worthy of
      usurping her position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom would enjoy that victory very much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor managed to walk in right as class was scheduled to
      start. Tom caught himself from visibly frowning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had been frequently late as of this term; she kept
      misplacing crucial things, it would seem. Things like her lesson
      plans, or her glasses, or her shoes. The students spoke during
      mealtimes of how forgetful she seemed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom hoped there had been a time when she would have gone above
      and beyond to cast wards to protect her living quarters from
      intrusion. But clearly that time had passed, as he had little
      trouble bypassing the superficial detection charms she lazily
      placed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For now these little dings in her reputation would do: late for
      class three times already this week due to misplacing things or
      having small "accidents". <em class="calibre8">I have a funny feeling there's going
      to be an urgent personal issue to force her to miss a few days of
      classes coming up...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Soon enough, people would start expecting her to mess things up
      more often, including herself. That unsure confidence would fester
      and cause her to get sloppier without Tom's further assistance.
      <em class="calibre8">Gently prod her in the direction of failure, and she'll walk
      straight into it. Dippet will not be pleased...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Taking her seat, Professor Merrythought ruffled through her
      papers, all out of order, for some reason, this morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had been quite careful to not so much as glance as them when
      he had rearranged today's lesson. He didn't have a moral problem
      with cheating, but he did have his own strange principles. His
      purpose was just to make Merrythought look bad, and if he took
      advantage of his strategies to, in this case for example, learn the
      lesson ahead of time, it would just make him - well, feel lazy.
      <em class="calibre8">Actually reading her notes is something</em>
      <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Monroe</strong></em> <em class="calibre8">would do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a loud crack from the Professor's wand. All the
      chatter in the class died down; all eyes focused on her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have three specific enemies! Who for unknown reasons, are
      looking to do you harm! They are clever! They may strike at any
      time! Despite knowing this, you have to go on living life... and
      you have a thirst."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom sat up straighter. He was now quite glad he didn't read the
      notes, as this class was going to be one of the wonderful times
      that Merrythought went off book. <em class="calibre8">She ought to do it more often,
      it actually makes her students think on rare occasion</em>. Despite
      her hypothetical situations frequently being illogical, it was a
      nice break from reading on how to deal with boggarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had paused to let the hypothetical situation take root in
      the class's imagination. "So! You decide you will go to the Three
      Broomsticks for a few drinks. No more than two, obviously you will
      not get drunk in your situation, but enough to take the edge off.
      After all, it's been a stressful day for you, and you need the
      drink and a social atmosphere... regardless of the dangers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked around the classroom, her eyes magnified by her thick
      glasses. "How do you do this? How do you do this
      <em class="calibre8">safely</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom hesitated to raise his hand - to him, the lesson was a
      little foolish. <em class="calibre8">You don't go out for any leisurely activities
      until you have slain your enemies! Unless you can combine the two,
      and make slaying your enemies a leisurely activity.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Merrythought wouldn't want to hear the simple, correct answer,
      however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Tom hesitated, she called on Cedric Bagshot to answer.
      "Yes Mr. Bagshot, go on then, tell me how you survive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Idiot, this should be hilarious...</em> Cedric took a moment
      to consider how to phrase his answer, and then simply said, "I'd
      pay the extra galleon to have the drinks delivered to my house, and
      let my home wards protect me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a few murmurs of agreement around the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wrinkled his nose. It was a halfway decent answer, assuming
      you had a fortress and took several other measures. But drinking
      something delivered by an unknown was nothing short of foolish.
      <em class="calibre8">In fact, why on Merlin's green earth would you want to dull
      your senses in this sort of situation? Unless you're
      suicidal.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Merrythought likewise poked holes in the boy's plan.
      "Even then, you would have to follow the delivery boy to be sure it
      wasn't an undercover reconnaissance mission."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy looked disappointed, when he should have been ashamed
      that he would have been killed. Cedric was a fool, and simply
      thought of this as a pointless game. <em class="calibre8">It does seem slightly
      ridiculous, but the thought experiment could turn out incredibly
      important.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Miss Black, you have a proposal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dark-haired danger put a sweet edge into her voice and
      asked, "How long have my enemies been out to get me?" Tom almost
      snickered; anytime Bellatrix Black opened her mouth in Defense
      class, something outrageous was sure to come out. If only she
      didn't so patently obviously have a crush on him, he would have
      considered her for Battle Magic fights... <em class="calibre8">Well, that, and she's
      more openly violent than I am.</em> Around her fiance she was
      calmer, at least, but she was the most aggressive girl in the joint
      Ravenclaw and Slytherin class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor considered the question for a moment and replied,
      in a creepy voice, "One year, these enemies know you, very well
      indeed." <em class="calibre8">Really now? Well, that changes my next
      idea...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An entire year you say, and they know me?" Bellatrix Black put
      a funny confused look on her face. "If that's the case, I would
      have to assume I was being paranoid by this point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Merrythought stuttered, "Wh-what do you m-mean, of
      course you should be p-paranoid if-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black cut her off again with that deceptively innocent voice, "I
      meant that my enemies would have been dead within a <em class="calibre8">month</em>.
      Or I would have been. If for some reason, they were still getting
      to know me after a <em class="calibre8">year</em>, they would stay well away." She
      sniffed, "There are no enemies to be afraid of here, it's a trick
      question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most of the class laughed out of amusement at the "joke", but
      some stayed silent, for the same reason Tom and two others chuckled
      darkly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">She would likely draw them all into open battle at once, and
      kill herself, along with everyone within a square mile, with some
      wild unpredictable magic.</em> The girl was arranged to marry
      Antonius Prewett, someone he could certainly manipulate, but he
      wondered if anyone could control Bellatrix Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Merrythought frowned, "Hmm, is there anybody in this
      class who could survive this encounter?" And she and the whole
      class looked pointedly at Tom Riddle. "Mr. Riddle! Please explain
      to us how to stay alive in this scenario."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, honestly Professor, if these enemies know me as well as
      you say, it would be as simple as doing something that they know I
      wouldn't do, more or less."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor was frowning again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, look. If they know me, and know I won't take any risks,
      which I wouldn't, then the obvious thing to do is go all out on a
      gamble." Tom thought for a moment and continued, "I walk into the
      bar, casual as you please, and have my drinks in peace. If they
      follow into the bar, they will either assume this person isn't
      myself, a distraction of some sort, and therefore flee, or they
      will assume that it is me. And, if they know me so well, they know
      I wouldn't just appear like that without some massive advantage
      ready to wield against them, and so, again they would flee."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Riddle, I don't think you can just make assumptions like
      that on how people will behave. You defeated the purpose of the
      lesson." The professor was shaking her head lightly. "You put
      yourself in incredible danger by bluffing like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom disagreed, "It wouldn't be a bluff, it would be a trap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How would you overtake them if they called your bluff, and fall
      into your 'trap'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic." Tom replied simply. This response got a laugh from a
      few people for some reason, but the Professor was unimpressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom sighed, "Fine, then, another plan. You can never have enough
      plans in place." The professor smiled at that comment, and Tom went
      on. "Well before you left your temporary safe house, you check to
      make sure your spare wand is still secure in the hidden holster.
      Hmm, enchanting a device for temporary superhuman speed wouldn't be
      a bad idea either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom paused to consider how else he'd prepare. "There a few other
      small devices I can think of which you may want to bring along as
      well, but I don't think I will mention them now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor tilted her head in curiosity at that, but before
      she could ask, Tom went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would then drink from one of your four Polyjuice vials,
      each of them containing a different appearance, nothing too
      obvious, but no-one overly ordinary either. That part may be
      tricky… Really, it would depend ultimately on whom you were trying
      to fool." Tom inhaled, then continued. "Then Disillusion yourself,
      and just for overkill, throw on an….. No, forget an invisibility
      cloak, not enough freedom of movement if you actually have to
      fight. Besides, if they already know who you are, and where you
      are, an invisibility cloak won't offer much concealment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Merrythought's grin grew even broader.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"From there, you Apparate to a random location, with no link to
      you. Then you can Apparate outside the bar. Then no one will know
      where you started<strong class="calibre7">.</strong> I know you can track a person,
      but I've never heard of a way to track where a person just
      Apparated from. But it's still possible…" He finished his thought
      almost as a question, as he stared into the air for a moment and
      tapped his cheek with his finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As expected the Professor chimed in, "Apparation tracking is
      quite advanced, and will only work in certain conditions, but even
      then it's quite difficult. I'll explain it a little to you after
      class, I'm sure you can work out the rest from there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom allowed himself to show a smile; he was providing exactly
      the type of ridiculously over-complicated answer that she wanted to
      hear, and he would be rewarded with extra knowledge. Professor
      Merrythought often had little gems of lore she would dish out to
      Tom if he could but push the correct button. Fortunately, she
      mostly seemed under the impression Tom was but a curious
      student.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The moment you arrived you would observe the scene closely,
      probably for an hour, at least, before you entered. Rather than
      cast detection charms, which might be noticed by a powerful
      opponent, you would have to feel around for magical resonance. Not
      as effective, of course, but it's better than the alternatives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Once you were sure that nobody else was in plain hiding, you
      could then very subtly slip the barmaid a pre-written note, in
      somebody else's hand, with your order, along with the exact amount
      of money. Do everything quickly and precisely, very subtle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was about to finish up but considered the situation further.
      "If for some reason after getting your drinks, you had to stay
      there to drink them, you wouldn't do it at the open bar! You would
      stay in the patio where there are fewer people to watch, plenty of
      escape options, and lots of room to fight if you have to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And no, I did not forget about raising shields, even invisible
      ones would be foolish. Any competent wizard would be able to detect
      the slight surge of defensive magic from an invisible corner. " Tom
      was now satisfied that if he followed that plan, and adapted to the
      situation as it played out, he could control the situation if it
      got out of hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Merrythought apparently agreed. "Well thought, Tom.
      Normally I would expand, and ask the student how they planned to
      fight possibly three strong opponents at once if they had to,
      however you seem confident you would simply 'Find a way' to do
      it…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom nodded, and Professor Merrythought shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are talented, Mister Riddle, but I think your ego is a
      little larger than it should be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">My ego is just the right size, thank you very much.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to address the class. "I am afraid we don't have much
      time left, and we have material from the book to cover yet, quite a
      lot in fact, so I'll have to put off the practical lesson I had
      planned till the next class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had been looking forward to a real Defense class where they
      got to cast magic; perhaps he was doing too good a job at
      disrupting Merrythought's job. He sighed as she pulled out the
      textbook; as with all of their texts, this one was full of
      inaccuracies and covered irrelevant subjects. Without better
      textbooks, proper teachers were imperative. <em class="calibre8">And this one is
      fading fast.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor held the book open to show the class a picture,
      talking about how to deal with some type of giant spider that Tom
      had read about once. Rather than listen, he probed his memory for
      anything of importance. They hadn't seemed fearsome enough to
      really need to worry about - some magical strength, but no real
      intelligence. <em class="calibre8">Not dangerous, to a trained wizard; perhaps a
      little girl might be in danger if she ran into one.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The underbelly is vulnerable to curses, and with so many legs,
      a strong tripping Jinx will get them into perfect position for a
      hard Stunner to the soft flesh of the belly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Back to the thought experiment, Tom decided that if you saw a
      giant spider and threw curses at it, the three others tracking you
      could come out and flank you, then overtake you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't likely to encounter one any place except its home,
      in a forest, or cave system, which would likely be full of traps
      and hard terrain to fight on. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And once you start to notice signs of their presence, you
      should simply apparate away. If you can't, forget the complex
      jinxes, there are two simple words that no magical protection can
      withstand, no matter where you strike it.</em> Even if a person
      wasn't capable of that curse, or unwilling to use it at the time,
      they could simply use some type of overpowered brute force magic on
      it. <em class="calibre8">Magical or no, it's still an insect, and it could be
      squashed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thinking of how flawed others' thinking was proved to be a great
      source of enjoyment to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Once I get this job, our first lesson will be Fiendfyre, so
      we can properly send these texts to the hell they belong
      in.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The professor continued to go on in detail about - something -
      for the next little while, and Tom observed his classmates. Besides
      the girls that tried to catch glances of him, almost all seemed
      absorbed and frightened while listening to the details; however,
      Tom noticed that Orego Burke was paying more attention to him then
      to class. Tom locked eyes with the boy for a few moments, he looked
      away, and that seemed to be the end of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Merrythought closed the book and put it down. "The
      acromantula living deep in our own forbidden forest have been
      growing more restless and wild over the last few years, according
      to the gamekeeper." The professor made it sound like this was
      worrisome news. "He says he has never in his life seen them change
      their behavior patterns so drastically, it's as though they have
      been preparing for a storm, or some other large event, for at least
      the last four years. There has been talk of bringing in researchers
      to study this new pattern of behavior it seems significant. I
      suspect their change would make for an interesting Care Of Magical
      Creatures class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom doubted that, who cared what the spiders were doing deep in
      the forest or why they were restless? <em class="calibre8">I'm not taking Care of
      Magical Creatures, can we shut up about these things?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After class he waited until everybody left to approach The
      Professor in regards to their unfinished discussion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So tell me, Mister Riddle, who is it you are hoping to track
      from place to place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was almost laughing, but there was a tinge of fear in her
      laughter. Tom was sure she wasn't completely sold on his innocence.
      He had to convince her he was simply eager to learn as much as
      possible for the sake of learning. It was the truth, but Tom could
      also see lots of other uses for tracking Apparation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not so much I expect I'll need to track anybody. I'm just
      curious how it would work exactly. You know, in case I ever need a
      drink while 3 enemies are out to get me," he joked back, hoping to
      put her at ease, then smiled his most charming smile. It apparently
      worked, because she waved him to a desk at the front of the class,
      and sat on top of her own to regard him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you well know Tom, all magic leaves traces, and nearly all
      magic can be sensed, if a person is sensitive enough to that type
      of thing. That's the basic principal behind tracking a person who
      just Apparated... do you see what I am getting at?" She cocked her
      head at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom considered it. "I believe I do. I've also heard powerful
      magic rubs off on a person, and lingers after they are out of the
      area."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor kept quiet and let Tom continue working it
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, say, your house has heavy wards, or it contains some
      ancient device of power? After you Apparated out, the magical scent
      would linger on you? A person can trace that?" Tom was very curious
      now, this sounded like something he would be particularly good at:
      his sense of magical resonance was strong, he could feel even the
      smallest traces of lingering magic in the air or on an object.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Merrythought nodded, "That's the essence of it, yes.
      I'm afraid I have to admit that I do not know how a person uses
      that to trace the original location. I have never been capable of
      it personally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She seemed disappointed in that, Tom could understand. Failure
      to learn an exotic magic would be a hard pill to swallow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With as much enthusiasm as he could muster, Tom replied, "Thank
      you, Professor, you have been very helpful. I always look forward
      to our chats."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Merrythought smiled, "As do I, Tom, you really are a
      talented young man. I wouldn't be surprised if you ended up taking
      my job one day far down the road, once you get some real world
      experience. And realize your own limits, since you don't seem to
      believe they exist at the moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom let the insult wash over him, since she had no idea he was
      already destabilizing her reputation and planned to take her job
      far sooner than that. <em class="calibre8">Maybe then I'll rub some salt in, but for
      now</em>… He learned from his last failed plot that even if you can
      move quickly, usually it is better to play the long con.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stepped out of the defense room, and nearly bumped into a
      girl, but he pivoted and spun out of the way, hand ready to summon
      his wand in an instant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He dropped his guard slightly when he seen who it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should be more careful where you are going, Myrtle."
      <em class="calibre8">How in Merlin's name does she just appear in front of me so
      often? Maybe Merrythought is wrong and tracking comes quite easily
      to some.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The awkward girl's eyes widened under her glasses. "Were… Were
      you about to curse me, Tom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was still in a combat ready position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still may." He said it only half-jokingly. The threatening
      undertone went completely over the dull girl's head and she
      laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, sorry, I did kind of come out of nowhere on you there,
      sorry about that!" She blushed and looked down as she continued, "I
      guess that's why you are so good in Defense class! Actually, that's
      what I wanted to talk to you about…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Is she in my Defense class? I hadn't noticed.</em> Not that
      Tom gave a toss about most girls. It would be one thing if they
      seemed to care about anything besides staring at him... He was
      adapted to it by now, but last year, when it began, he became
      uncomfortable enough to consider cursing off his nose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl grew a deeper shade of red before she was able to speak
      again. "I was really impressed with how you answered the teacher's
      question! You really sound like you know how to take care of
      yourself!" she stammered, all in one breath, then finally looked up
      again. Even if he was interested in girls right now, this poor,
      foolish thing was certainly not somebody he would consider. Why she
      couldn't take a hint was a puzzle even he couldn't solve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So he gave her another hint. He turned, started walking, and
      said just loudly enough to make sure she took it as a dismissal,
      "Yes, I take care of myself just fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bye Tom!" Myrtle gushed, as Tom's strides took him farther and
      farther from her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now, Black was approaching him. He sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't really like Myrtle, do you, Tom? I could see it."
      Black seemed proud of her obvious observation, and apparently
      jealous of Myrtle's conversation with Tom for some reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As a matter of fact, I believe I am going to marry that girl,
      Bellatrix." Tom said it sarcastically, but the sarcasm either went
      over Black's head, or the comment was all she needed to go over the
      edge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She is an idiot." Black snapped as she watched Myrtle walk down
      the hall. Tom could feel the air growing cold around her. He had to
      settle this girl down before she did something stupid again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She is my idiot, and no worry of yours." Tom put some force
      into his voice to stop Black staring at Myrtle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you say…" Black said, reluctantly, then continued, "A pity
      if some accident should - "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom cut her words off with a gesture from his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I need something from you, I will tell you, Bella." He put
      an edge to the end of the sentence to make it clear this
      conversation had come to an end. Bellatrix Black turned and walked
      away without another word. <em class="calibre8">The last thing I needed is Black
      cursing Myrtle into a thousand pieces in my name.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">David Monroe seemed to embrace this problem; to him the
      attention of girls was a great joy and he went out of his way to
      encourage it. Tom on the other hand tried very hard to be curt with
      female students, but it only seemed to make some of them more
      interested.. Apparently his "mysterious and dangerous" aura had the
      unintended side effect of attracting certain types of females. At
      least with Black there was a chance of making her into a useful
      pawn at some point, a powerful witch without scruples could come in
      handy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix Black, Abigail Myrtle…" He considered the uses he
      might be able to get from them as he walked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Myrtle was malleable and weak willed, Tom was certain he could
      manipulate her into just about anything he needed with a few kind
      words. He was just as certain, alas, that her stupidity and
      weakness would cause problems if he tried to use her to any
      important end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black on the other hand…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If I asked her to prove that she could blow up The Three
      Broomsticks, I would be reading about a fiery massacre in
      tomorrow's paper, I expect she would stay to fight with the aurors
      who arrive as well.</em> The girl had incredible book smarts and
      was in the top of all her classes, but her impulsive decisions
      called her intelligence into question. He almost felt sorry for
      Antonius Prewett, saddled to marry her...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fact was, like most girls, Black would do almost anything
      for Tom without hesitation, and she was powerful enough to use as a
      brute force "sledge hammer" if he needed an expendable one, but her
      willfulness and unpredictability was a weakness that would bring
      Tom down if he made use of her without a substantial amount of
      training.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom thought about Myrtle and Black as he walked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If nothing else they could be useful scapegoats, witnesses,
      or sacrifices...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix Black stalked off down the hallway, feeling slightly
      angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The only reason I let him get away with talking to me like that
      is because he is the only guy here who can back up his words." Her
      fiance, Antonius Prewett, certainly couldn't. Every year she'd had
      to remind him: they were betrothed from birth, simply so their
      parents could be happy with a pureblood marriage after they
      graduated. As long as he did whatever she wanted, she would pretend
      to agree with him in public. Unless, of course, he tried to touch
      her, in which case she would demonstrate exactly why she had higher
      marks in every class than he did. And when he begged to be allowed
      to ask Dorea Potter to Hogsmeade last year, she almost cursed him,
      till she realized that would be the perfect cover for her crush on
      Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle, who definitely did not have lower marks than she did in
      every class. True, sometimes Black grew so angry with how Tom
      disregarded her that it made her want to curse him. <em class="calibre8">Bloody fool
      might even like it.</em> It probably wasn't worth the risk of
      finding out though. She was quite sure Tom did like her, but in his
      own strange way. The challenge of getting him to admit it was
      exciting to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She tried to imagine Tom Riddle coming to her door at 8pm with a
      rose in hand and sweet words on his tongue. It was a hilarious
      image. When her fiance, had done something similar, it had been
      hilarious in a totally different way...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well. Tom Riddle with a rose would never happen, but she was
      optimistic something else could happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was probably the only 5th year who could actually out-match
      her with magic. His views more or less lined up with her own -
      rather than reporting her to the Ministry of Magic for suggesting a
      ritual to sacrifice a herd of unicorns for immortality, he had cast
      a number of charms to ensure they weren't overheard - and he seemed
      deeply interested her opinions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He does call me Bella, after all. Just like Father used
      to,</em> Black thought with affection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Bellatrix!" Mandy Perkins called. She turned around to see
      Mandy smiling at her."I liked that joke you made in class about
      your enemies, they better not mess with you, hey?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Black tried to recall making a joke, but she didn't have a habit
      of trying to make people laugh. "The only joke is that somebody
      would purposely want to be my enemy. Do you want to be my enemy?"
      Bellatrix asked Mandy the question as if she were asking the girl
      to have a butterbeer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mandy looked taken aback. "Of course not! I was just trying to
      be friendly is all, Merlin's pants!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl walked off muttering something, Black was sure she
      heard the words "hopeless" and "lunatic" under the girl's
      breath.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
