<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest - Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest Chapter 4, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Tom Riddle and Higher
      Learning</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">note: again, changes to canon are intentional.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter Four – Tom Riddle and Higher
      Learning</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had verified that he still had nearly two hours before his
      scheduled lesson, but it was a long and complex journey to get to
      this, the one class that mattered more than all others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hour made him consider Disillusionment, but he didn't dare
      while Dumbledore was on the grounds. This way, he could easily
      explain his wanderings as a night walk by the lake; if he chose to
      break curfew, nobody would say otherwise. Whereas if Dumbledore saw
      that he was clearly hiding himself, the old man would figure
      something was up. <em class="calibre8">These excursions are the last thing the old
      man needs to be aware of.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, Tom constantly let his magic flow outwards - around
      corners and into rooms - to check for any resonances that would
      indicate a human, elf or ghost. With his path clear the entire way
      to the front doors, he exited the school and made his way across
      the dark grounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was in his second year that his attention had settled on the
      anomaly of the Shrieking Shack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stories he heard and read about simply made no sense. The
      type of "ghost" who simply wanted to break things, make noise, and
      scare people wouldn't stay in an abandoned shack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Besides, if it was locked up, how would anyone even
      know?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps once there was a ghost, but it should have moved on when
      people stopped living there. As a matter of fact, the building
      itself should have been demolished if the haunting was truly that
      dangerous. And if it wasn't that dangerous, if it was an
      appropriate "tourist attraction," why was it completely locked
      up?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As far as Tom could discern, maybe one out of fifty people who
      visited Hogsmeade took a look at the Shack, and when nothing at all
      happened, they decided not to waste time there again, and
      occasionally spread the word of the fraud. There were a few "lucky"
      ones that were scared away by some simple banging and laughter from
      inside on occasion. But Tom had heard a seventh-year Gryffindor
      known for being a founding member of the "Prank Squad," boasting
      about scaring off tourists more than once. The group could
      certainly be a sufficient explanation for the odd, infrequent
      "ghostly" encounters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had to have another purpose. Tom realized that the remote
      location in the village and the positioning of it in relation to
      Hogwarts could be relevant, if it contained an exit to one of the
      many secret tunnels from the school grounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, not a single one of the passages he could find
      were long enough to reach the Shack, and after a few weeks of
      exploring, he was ready to write off this theory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then, something else caught his curiosity. Walking past the
      Whomping Willow, he realized what an odd feature it was. A tree
      that knocked any student who came near into the hospital wing, what
      idiotic headmaster had thought that was a good idea?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Unless it was guarding something.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was easy enough to find the privacy to cast at it, since no
      student was so foolhardy as to come near it, but none of his spells
      seemed to have any effect. Until he cast an orange bolt that struck
      a large knot near the bottom, making the tree freeze, and some of
      the roots retracted to reveal a small hole. Tom returned to
      investigate it after dark, and ended up exactly where he thought he
      might. That was his first time truly breaking out of school and
      into the wizarding world. He discovered many amazing things
      afterhours, but it took a year for his most valuable discovery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One night spent creeping around Hogsmeade, Tom happened across
      two wizards arguing heatedly in an alley, words about to turn to
      wands. Curious to see a real duel, Tom took cover, and watched from
      under his "borrowed" invisibility cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the wands did come out, Tom was rather disappointed. He
      hoped to see some high-level curses flying, perhaps even some
      blood. Instead, the large, bald man drew his wand faster than the
      eye could catch, slamming the other man into a wall so hard it
      would have shattered, if the buildings here weren't warded against
      stray curses from frequent midnight duels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His opponent down, the man slowly turned towards where Tom had
      ducked behind a similarly warded waste bin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see you there!" The man said harshly, "Just throw off the
      cloak, and try to do what you mean to do. I'll re-holster my wand
      to give you a fair shot then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was caught; this man was clearly powerful enough that Tom
      couldn't overtake him with his best efforts. He had an idea,
      though, and he threw down his cloak and stood up. "I mean to try
      and convince you to teach me to fight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon seeing Tom, the man laughed, "Go back to bed, boy," and
      turned to walk away. Tom was intent, now; he drew his wand, pulled
      down hard, and an inky black jet started sizzling towards the man.
      It winked out on an invisible shield a foot away from the man. The
      large man stopped in his tracks, and turned to Tom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You tickled me," he said in an awed tone. He studied Tom for a
      few moments: his stance, the way he held his wand, the magic
      radiating off of him, probably a number of other things as well. He
      nodded his head, apparently in approval.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll tell you what, boy." (Tom <em class="calibre8">really</em> hated that
      word.) "Keep coming around. I don't hide myself under any
      invisibility cloak, Tobo Mott's easy to find." The large man left
      it at that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was unsure of the implication. "And once I find you
      again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He snorted. "How about, you try to get the drop on me. If you
      can't do that, I can't expect you to be worth my time. I'll give
      you three, no four, tries to impress me." His voice seemed to
      indicate that he expected failure. "I know you're one of Dippet's,
      so I won't truly hurt you. You'll see just how little you know,
      boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man turned and walked away without another word. Odd, but he
      was certainly a powerful fighter, and Tom intensely desired to be
      taught by a powerful fighter. <em class="calibre8">At least these four attempts will
      be fun.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first two tries had ended with sufficient disaster to
      convince Tom that this man was indeed somebody he wanted to learn
      from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first time, Tom had tried ambushing him with an all-out
      attack high up on broomstick. Tobo had simply kept walking straight
      towards the rainbow jet as it rushed towards him. Just before Tom
      thought he would succeed, Tobo had yelled something
      incomprehensible, and his spell rushed back at him, thrice as
      strong as before. Without the power or time to avoid it, Tom was
      knocked him off his broom, rushing twenty feet sideways, before he
      began his exceedingly painful fall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second time, Tom had invited Bellatrix to Hogsmeade, hoping
      that she would bring Tobo's guard down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And the consequences for that, I still pay for.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But on his third attempt, he was able to take the man
      unaware.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was in the same alley they had first met. Tom Riddle
      approached the man with open hands and said "Good evening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The large man smiled, and replied, "Hello, whoever you are." Tom
      didn't even see him pull his wand before the man spat,
      "<em class="calibre8">Polyfluis Reverso</em>!" The spell transformed Tom Riddle back
      into a confused old man who was just starting to realize he wasn't
      Tom Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which was just as he had planned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From inside his Conjured waste bin, Tom muttered an incantation,
      and the sound of rapid footsteps seemed to approach the man from
      behind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then immediately Banished the bin and stepped forward, mere
      feet from the man, just as he turned his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom bellowed the incantation to one of the strongest shield
      breakers he had read about. A bluff: that spell was out of his
      league at the time. But the man bought it, dropping his initial
      shields to put up a much stronger one, to withstand the
      breaker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, what came was a long wooden shaft Tom had Transfigured.
      Physical objects would pass through that particular shield, while
      magic couldn't. The shaft struck the man clean in the ribs, and Tom
      was surprised to see him actually recoil slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically, that could have just as easily been a sword, and I
      would have nearly cut you in half," Tom said smugly. The man was
      staring at the pole in disbelief. Tom cancelled the Transfiguration
      and threw the branch aside. "I think I've proven my competence to
      survive your training."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After casting a Healing Charm, he looked Tom over. "Aye, you're
      certainly sneaky enough to dodge death itself, I would imagine." He
      put out his hand and they shook, quite firmly. "Call me Tobo
      Mott."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First lesson…" The punch came at the same time the sentence
      did. Tom knew how to fight - he had been bullied enough back in
      London to learn - but the man had him in his grasp. The fist
      connected with Tom's head and sent him sprawling, dazed, and angry.
      He rolled as he fell and managed to land on his knees; he sprung up
      in a rage and drew his wand up, spitting the nastiest Hex he
      knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened. A quick glance at his hand showed it empty; a
      quick glance at Tobo showed him holding it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still not sneaky enough, but you might do for now." Smiling,
      Tobo tossed Tom his wand back. "If you plan to fly off the handle
      and try to murder me every time I best you, boy, this isn't going
      to work. There are lessons in loss, which you miss completely by
      getting angry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The lesson I missed was that you aren't trustworthy," Tom
      hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most people would say that, aye. I especially won't be when it
      comes to your lessons. Fights aren't fair, and I won't be
      either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite himself, Tom couldn't help smiling. <em class="calibre8">Fairness never
      seemed natural to me anyway.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In exchange for personal lessons, I will ask you to do a small
      job for me once and a while." Tobo studied Tom, waiting for a
      reaction, but Tom didn't give him one. "Nothing truly dangerous,
      just a little help here and there with a plot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still controlling his anger, he replied, "Fine, then." <em class="calibre8">As
      long as this man understands that I expect absolutely everything he
      can give me, and I expect he can give me quite a lot.</em> Tom
      normally had others do his bidding; it was not pleasant to be on
      the other end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're clever, and sneaky. I have a feeling you don't have a
      particular sense of duty to uphold the law either. That, I can use,
      more than any type of gold payment for my time and effort." Tobo's
      face was now blank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so it had been for the last several years. Tom would steal
      an artifact from somebody, act as a spy, or even send a message to
      somebody who had wronged Tobo in one of his many business
      ventures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't use violence to send the messages; Tobo wanted him to
      be clever about it, and subtle enough to not send either of them to
      Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom always made sure to perform as expected, or better. In
      exchange, he received extensive training from the powerful,
      dangerous and mysterious man, Tobo Mott. He was even taught
      powerful spells he wasn't likely to find in the Hogwarts library,
      or learn in class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo's training over the years had helped make Tom powerful. In
      fifth year, certainly, he outclassed everybody. Only two other
      students in Hogwarts made Tom wary these days, Bellatrix Black and
      Thomas Chang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been a long walk through the tunnel and out of the shack,
      past the Hogwarts wards where he could apparate to Tobo's
      well-warded quarters. As he swiped his wand just to the edge of the
      ward, it glowed, meaning it was safe to pass through. He entered
      the small entrance room, but could go no further until Tobo came to
      unlock the wards. As usual, he came at the appointed time, and the
      barrier dissolved as he approached. Tom walked into the living room
      to discuss today's lesson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo looked particularly grave, making Tom feel uneasy. "Listen,
      Tom".</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He normally doesn't call me by my name, this can't be
      good...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no lesson tonight, a shame you wasted your night by
      walking out here, but I couldn't send an owl without heavy code to
      explain. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Because the code itself would have revealed there was some
      plot afoot...</em> "Why is there no lesson tonight, Tobo? You
      aren't telling me something." He briefly tried to bypass the man's
      Occlumency shield, but it was yet too powerful. So he waited for an
      answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got troubles, kid." Tobo looked the most sincere he'd ever
      seen him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Now this I may be able to exploit.</em> "You will need to
      elaborate if you expect me to solve your problem for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo laughed at that, a legitimate belly-laugh, something else
      Tom had never seen before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kid, if I can't solve this, you can't either. You're out of
      your league, these are adult games."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had considered himself an adult for years. He stood up
      straighter and looked Tobo in the eyes. "Please, could you explain
      all the relevant details to me? If I succeed where you have failed,
      give me a blank cheque to ask of you anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo rolled his eyes at the request, but he sighed and started
      to explain how a certain man, a competitor, had acquired documents
      and other unknown evidence of one of Tobo's main operations. This
      man had agreed to keep this evidence sealed as long as Tobo went
      out of business and shared his most valued trade secrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, I can't dare enchant another device for somebody, and I'd
      rather die before being blackmailed… Even if I could trust that he
      won't have me sent to Azkaban anyways." Tobo was looking very
      tired. "I don't think you realize the kind of money there is in
      that type of specialty work, Kid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And here I thought it was your main source of income</em>,
      Tom thought dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo went on; the man was apparently well protected, armed with
      an ancient device unknown to Tobo but apparently held great
      shielding power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He neither raises shields of his own nor tries to dodge
      attacks; I couldn't understand it during our brief encounter. Even
      comparing some of the most arcane magic I know, which has a similar
      effect to his hidden device, did nothing to reveal its true nature
      to me. He fled when I once cast the Killing Curse, but that seems
      to be his only weakness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Unless it's a bluff... but I</em> <em class="calibre8">doubt any device or
      spell could resist the green death.</em> "Is he otherwise
      powerful?" Tom wondered if this could be an even match for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not particularly, but more than you are. Not a third the
      fighter you are though…" The man seemed to be picturing Tom facing
      off against the opponent for a moment before he shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom kept pressing for information. "Where does he reside?"
      Normally, Tobo was powerful enough to simply assault nearly any
      compound and destroy everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the thing; it's some very special magic…" Tobo frowned
      in confusion. "His home is small, deep in the forest, and it
      moves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Confused himself, Tom repeated, "It moves? What do you mean it
      moves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, if a person approaches it, it will vanish as if you
      were a Muggle looking on a highly warded building. From all I can
      tell it literally changes location rather than anything else. It
      does the same if any powerful magic approaches."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom considered this. A plan was beginning to take shape. "How
      else is it warded?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sufficiently, I would expect. But then, with this unfindable
      home, I doubt he would go through the same amount of troubles that
      I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it's probably not warded very well because of the high magic
      being used to 'relocate' it when it's triggered, correct? Do you
      think he would even bother to have an anti-Apparition ward on it?
      Since nobody could actually Apparate in without knowing where it
      is…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, and it doesn't matter. As you said, no way to
      know where it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wasn't so sure about that. "Can we lure him out of his home,
      just for a brief encounter even? We do not have to do anything
      aside from meet him in person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo shook his head. "I'm not stupid boy, of course I tried to
      track where he Apparated from, but there were no tells from all I
      could sense. And trust me when I say, I can sense a great deal more
      than you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They discussed for a while the particulars of this man and what
      he was known for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally Tom thought he had a workable plan. He asked, "Suppose I
      get to him, what would you have me do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo smiled at the question, as if a child asked why water was
      wet. "Try not to get killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't intend to die, ever." Tom replied, it was a bold
      statement but he knew his justifications.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo looked Tom over with pity. "Hmm, I don't think any of us
      intend to, life just likes to kill us, is all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I find a way to get to him, what would you have me do?" he
      repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo sighed, "In an ideal world, you would destroy any evidence
      he has on me, and kill him, hopefully without making the front page
      of the newspaper again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Note to self, do not involve Bellatrix.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well. Tom had no problems with the idea of killing this man.
      <em class="calibre8">The first person to die at my hand, but somebody has to be
      first.</em> It seemed highly unlikely that Tom would never have a
      good reason to kill someone, so it only seemed logical to start
      practicing early.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However… He felt certain that he could go above and beyond to
      truly impress his mentor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They discussed the situation for a while longer, in particular
      the specifics of the powerful device the man had at his disposal.
      Tobo had no recollection of any lore about such a device; however,
      Tom felt an itch in the back of his mind, when Tobo had said that
      the device seemed to absorb magic, rather than actually block
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But there's no need for Tobo to ever know what the device is
      if I end up with it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom decided it was time to wrap up this discussion; he needed to
      get back to the castle. <em class="calibre8">And I must make another stop.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What type of time frame am I looking at here, Tobo?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The sooner the better Kid, I'm losing money and customers."
      Tobo perked up with an idea, "Tell you what, if you do pull this
      off, I'll give you the entire profits from my first order back in
      business."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom waved the offer off. "I can acquire my own gold if I need
      it. What I need from you is… Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo nodded gravely, unhappy with an open request. "If you ask
      for something too advanced, you know I can't teach you, even if you
      can help me. Some seals can only be opened by one's own self."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was frustrated; from what he understood of the Interdict of
      Merlin, Tobo could teach him anything he knew if he truly willed
      it. <em class="calibre8">It's a matter of him wanting to teach, not a matter of
      being able to.</em> "The spell I seek is hardly uncommon. In fact,
      I think it's a perfectly suitable spell to teach somebody to see if
      they are capable of wielding powerful forces."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As realization dawned, Tobo looked almost. "Kid, you don't just
      test powerful magic, either you control it, or it consumes you. And
      possibly many others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no fear of being consumed, and the only people who need
      fear being consumed by me are those I have decided to destroy." Tom
      realized that sounded too arrogant. He had to try to convince Tobo
      he understood the implications here, so he toned it down. "I've
      read about Magical Italy, I've heard rumors of the fall of
      Atlantis, I am aware of the Wind Weavers of legend. I have no
      intention of playing with magic out of my league."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tobo had a blank face. "Aye, you do deserve a little credit, I
      suppose." He looked at Tom for a lingering moment, and then sighed.
      "I agree to your terms, Tom Riddle. Rid me of this problem, and I
      will grant you the knowledge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smiled; he could almost smell the unholy burning of
      Fiendfyre already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With such a short time before sunrise, Tom decided to use his
      old fallback, "I was reading and lost track of time," to explain
      his absence from breakfast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reached the odd shop at the end of the twisting road, where,
      if you had the gold, the owner sold Muggle antiques, knick-knacks
      and curios - and whatever else you could find in the basement.
      Their lacks of regular hours were another benefit Tom often took
      advantage of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Old wrinkled Groleo answered the door, looking for all the world
      like a harmless elderly fellow. His shop wasn't warded in any way,
      and he never had a shield up - or a care in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Who needs wards when you have all the lore from those
      scrolls?</em> Tom wished he could take the whole shop for his
      own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But needs must; Tom struggled with a heavy bag of gold from his
      robes, handed it to the old man without a word, and was ushered in.
      Groleo led Tom to a random side shelf full of what Tom thought
      resembled Muggle "snow globes". Slowly, Groleo lifted his
      trembling, claw-like hand. A smear of black now stood where the
      shelf had been, and into this abyss Tom strode.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He now stood in the large dusty basement, with no sign of the
      rest of the shop. <em class="calibre8">At least, I've always assumed it was a
      basement, but who knows, with Groleo? A shame he won't actually
      tell anyone his secrets, of all people he'd know something about
      the magic required to move a house…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were shelves lining the walls, full of large tomes,
      ancient scrolls and Pensieves. There were no candles, yet the room
      was visible, barely lit enough to read in. <em class="calibre8">The overall effect
      makes this room seem extra-secretive and foreboding.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thanks to the Interdict, a lot of the information here was
      useless, incomprehensible gibberish until one had learned the seeds
      of those spells and rituals. More valuable to him were the texts
      that went into detail on very interesting things, devices of power
      being one of the many intriguing subjects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom never had as much time or money to spend in this place as he
      would have liked, so he had some trouble finding the book he
      remembered referencing the Amulet of Asshia. Fortunately - ha! - it
      had not been sold, and he found the passage:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Amulet has been known to exist for at least 700 years.
      Although its actual origins are obscured by legend and fantasy, it
      is reasonable to assume that, due to its properties and approximate
      age, the crafter was Ronell Manailur himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I've seen that name before. If he were an artificer, that
      would explain why Manailur's name pops up around so many magical
      mysteries.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Amulet appears as two parts: a golden chain, with links
      that extend and retract to fit around the user. The chain itself
      has also been known to retract to the point that it strangles the
      life from the user. There is no extant evidence why it has betrayed
      owners, but it is worth noting that the one confirmed death via
      strangulation was none other than 'Percius Makier', a distant
      relation of one of Manailur's enemies while he lived."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom decided to very carefully research his heritage before
      trying to use this device himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Secondly, the chain suspends a large blue gem of magical
      creation. This gem is noted for seemingly drawing the magic out of
      nearly any attack, rather than trying to deflect or block the
      incoming magic. Once the Amulet is securely around the wearer's
      throat, the gem binds itself to the person's body and makes them
      almost impervious to attack. The exact limitations of its power are
      unknown, except that it has been seen to stop even the power of
      <em class="calibre8">ghphbjhhjqpxr</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It should be noted that the device has a trade-off: in exchange
      for utter protection, a wizard's own power will be fettered and
      slower under the influence of the amulet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was that; the Amulet didn't do anything else. But that
      was enough. <em class="calibre8">That would be a fine thing to own indeed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As always, the shop tempted Tom to stay here the rest of the
      day, soaking up any knowledge he could, and simply come up with an
      explanation for his absence at school.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sighing, Tom closed the book and reverently set it down on the
      table. The book gently floated up and back into its position on the
      shelf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's definitely something to steal for my own Dark lair's
      bookshelves.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, Tom stood up and walked straight towards the exit: a
      space between two shelves. He found himself stepping out the front
      door of the shop. <em class="calibre8">All that magic for books, yet a customer has
      to actually shut the front door. Groleo is insane.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">On his way back, he wondered if he shouldn't ask Bellatrix a few
      questions. <em class="calibre8">I can't tell her anything, but her store of facts
      about obscure dark magic from the past has surprised me
      before.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aside from that, he could easily move on to phase one of his
      plan. He would need to find three true-forged rings, and more
      importantly, quit hesitating and get on with practicing the
      extremely advanced technique he had been mentally building for the
      last year.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
