<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest - Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest Chapter 5, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Tom Riddle and Saturday</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Author's note: Just a reminder that things that look like
      canon misfires are on purpose.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter Five – Tom Riddle and Saturday</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A normal wizard might, after having spent his night discussing a
      seemingly intractable problem, reading more information, and
      walking for miles - a normal wizard might want to catch up on his
      sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The way to eat an elephant is one bite at a time.</em> Tom
      Riddle currently sat at his desk with a fresh sheet of parchment
      and outlined the broad steps of his plan. Things always seemed
      simpler if you broke them down that way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Step One: Locate and penetrate a small shack
      hidden by uncertain arcane magic in a vast forest."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom saw no reason to be concerned yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Step Two: Overwhelm Dark Wizard who cannot be
      touched by most of my magic."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom could think of several quite simple other ways to
      incapacitate a person. Moving forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Step Three: Steal the device of power, find out
      how to wield it without being trapped by unknown magic."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Bellatrix didn't know something relevant, Tom could always
      set the amulet aside for further investigation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Step Four: Deliver the Dark Wizard to Tobo for
      questioning."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was more than Tobo had asked for - and that was the way Tom
      liked to operate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">There. Shouldn't take but a couple of days.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Having settled that, he cast an Encryption Charm on the paper,
      then put it with his History of Magic notes. While normally, he
      preferred to sneak out to the library unseen, Bellatrix was usually
      up early as well, and he wanted to see if she could help him at all
      with the Amulet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today, however, something caught his attention in the common
      room, so he summoned a book from within his robes and it appeared
      in hand as though it had always been there. Tom sat down and
      pretended to read it in his usual seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead of having finished hours ago, one of the House Elves
      remained working in the common room. Probably because of the
      fourth-year girl trying to speak with it, literally begging it to
      respond to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Orney! Pleeeeaaase! You know me, Ashley! Please, stop ignoring
      me! Why won't you talk to me? We - we used to talk for hours while
      you cleaned my bedroom..." The girl was sobbing now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom bit his lip to stop from smirking. <em class="calibre8">What do you know, the
      old fool predicted it perfectly.</em> Tom surely never would have
      thought about the consequences to sentimental idiots banned from
      all house elf interaction. But then, why hadn't he thought to just
      make the elves invisible in the first place, if he didn't want such
      pathetic results? <em class="calibre8">The man has some foresight, but obviously not
      enough</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, Orney! Just, please, just say goodbye, I know, I know
      it's against the rules, but please just - please, just one last
      word!" Ashley was absolutely wailing, loudly enough that people
      were starting to come out to see what the commotion was. The Elf
      finally turned to look at Ashley, tears in its eyes as well, to
      Ashley's shock and silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye, Ashley." The elf gasped then wailed as it ran from the
      room; the girl fell to the floor, crying anew, while about an
      audience of around fifteen students gathered in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Elf will be going off to hurt itself, very badly for
      disobeying a direct command like that. Dumbledore had to have
      stressed to the elves not to say a single word to any student, to
      prevent another similar plot by me or anyone else. Apparently this
      Ashley girl would rather have the Elf punish itself than... not say
      Goodbye? And then never speak to it again?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was all too bizarre for Tom to try to puzzle out; he looked
      at the crying girl in confusion one last time and walked out of the
      common room. He didn't like feeling confused, and he was beginning
      to grow angry at himself for wanting to solve a puzzle not worth
      his time. Perhaps breakfast and a pretense of socializing would
      calm him down. <em class="calibre8">It wouldn't hurt to actually be seen around
      school a couple of times this weekend either.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's up with MacNair lately?" Terence Keen asked the
      Slytherin table as Tom took his usual seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A tall blonde girl replied, "Likely upset about his House Elf
      not speaking with him anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom burst out, "What?" <em class="calibre8">That doesn't sound right…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl looked at Tom and said, "It was his family's Elf, it
      came to Hogwarts with him, Walden knew it since he was a baby. And
      now that it's a Hogwarts employee, they can't even speak anymore.
      He was so angry he tried to curse the poor thing's head right off.
      Luckily the Elves are warded against students' spells, but of
      course it had to be reassigned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was well aware of the warding, otherwise he might have used
      something besides trickery and loopholes in his plot. But he was
      quite surprised at MacNair's depth of feeling. <em class="calibre8">I may have to
      reassess his usefulness.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, where is he now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blonde girl just shrugged and continued to eat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Tom, what are your plans for today?" Tom slowly turned right
      and stared at Thomas Chang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chang originally came from China; they receive their wands at
      age six there, and train extensively in combat. Tom had traded some
      help with homework and other things like that for some of Chang's
      exotic spells. The boy knew magic Tom had never even heard of.
      Nothing truly impressive - he was still young - but there were some
      useful tricks the Chinese had come up with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have some researching to do, and then I am going to practice
      Transfiguration for a few hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would you practice schoolwork on a Saturday?" Chang asked
      Tom jokingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would I need to practice my school work at all?" Tom
      replied completely seriously. "I have my own research to do,
      speaking of which I should get to it." <em class="calibre8">Enough socializing. I
      don't have the time to try to relate to these people.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">On his way to the library, he reflected on Chang a bit.
      <em class="calibre8">Perhaps I am overestimating him, he seems to have lost the
      passion for learning he had when he first came to Britain.
      Disappointing.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This morning seemed to be full of one letdown after another.
      <em class="calibre8">Everyone is just so weak. Hm. Maybe I could tell Bellatrix that
      Chang has been insulting her, and then we can see what he can
      really do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although it was an idle thought, he felt a bit of a shiver as he
      considered, honestly, if he could introduce Bellatrix Black to
      Thomas Chang in the context of Battle Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I can just see the Forbidden Forest, completely on fire,
      with the heat from the purple flames starting to melt the school
      off in the distance as though it were made of wax.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">On second thought, perhaps that should wait for Tom to become
      immortal - or at least fireproof.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix wasn't immediately available when he entered the
      library; all things considered, that was probably the worse option
      when he saw who was at a table near the entrance, surrounded by
      Hufflepuffs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, hello there Tom, how are you today?" <em class="calibre8">Why he thinks
      trying to push my buttons is a good idea is beyond me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fine, Monroe. Are those friends I see there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the Duffers were girls, naturally. "Yeah, I make a lot of
      friends." Monroe was actually grinning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smirked and replied, "I'm sure you find it easy. You could
      pull a Knut out from a girl's ear, and they'll think you Merlin
      reborn." Two of them gave him hostile looks, while the others were
      just confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe apparently finally remembered he was a Slytherin, started
      to look ashamed at cozying up with some Hufflepuff girls. But his
      face relaxed, he pushed his chair back, told the girls to wait a
      moment, then walked over to the roped off area delineating the
      Restricted section.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Giving Tom a smug look, he walked past it and picked a book off
      the shelf, thumbing through it casually while leaning against the
      shelf. Only his mouth smiled as he said, "Say what you like Tom, it
      doesn't bother me. I can do <em class="calibre8">this</em> and you can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was careful to keep his anger hidden. "Except that I could
      bypass the wards if I needed, I don't need permission like you."
      <em class="calibre8">Well. I probably could get past the wards; the problem is that
      Dumbledore would certainly know about it if I did.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had never been given permission to enter the warded section,
      not even once. He had asked three teachers with innocent enough
      excuses, but they all either fully explained to him what he was
      asking permission to learn about, or they sent him to a teacher who
      could. <em class="calibre8">Who but Dumbledore would have warned the staff? Surely
      he must realize I actually need access at some point, or I wouldn't
      be able to become a Professor...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The memory of Groleo's shop calmed him down. <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts
      certainly doesn't have a monthly subscription to magazines that
      contain articles titled "1001 Ways To Make Corpses."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As much as I love our intellectual discourse, I do have
      business elsewhere. A pleasure as always, Mr. Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With an insolent bow, Monroe returned to his table. The sight of
      his back made Tom draw his wand, but he turned and walked away
      before Monroe saw. <em class="calibre8">One day I'm going to Transfigure that whelp
      into a glass vase and cast Reducto to see how he likes being in a
      thousand pieces.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately for Monroe, Bellatrix wasn't in the library, so Tom
      was able to leave before his fury grew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">All right. If I were Bellatrix Black, where would I
      be?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl liked to spend her free time wandering the halls. This
      had not been a mystery Tom could solve by following her around
      invisibly, except that she seemed to want to avoid her fiancé. Tom
      had quietly mentioned this to her, one day when they were hiding
      out together, and she blurted out, "I'm afraid I might kill him
      right here in school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had nearly shuddered at that; she had been completely
      serious. <em class="calibre8">And of course if she does anything at all, I'll get
      blamed for it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">So now he tried a path he'd found her on before, through a
      corridor in the dungeons, when he heard somebody step out of the
      classroom behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing now, Mister Riddle? I dislike the way you
      stalk through my hallway; it makes me want to reach for a bezoar,
      just in case." Professor Slughorn was chuckling and looking up and
      down the hallway, to make sure they were alone - or to make sure
      they weren't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">A pity Bezoars don't work on Transfiguration sickness</em>.
      "Have no fear sir; I'm occupied with figuring out how to bring down
      a different Dark Wizard at the moment," Tom joked along.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hah! Dark Wizard, you give me too much credit Tom. I'd never
      survive as a Dark Wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I agree completely.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely you've considered poisoning him? Personally that's the
      way I would do it if I had to." Professor Slughorn liked to make
      dark jokes, but Tom could tell his heart wasn't into it. <em class="calibre8">More
      than likely, it's just to get on my good side.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I suppose poisoning does make the most sense, thank you
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slughorn chuckled again, "Ah I feel safer already knowing that
      the world will soon be less one Dark Wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smirked. "Well, if they'd just make me Defense Professor
      already, the world wouldn't fear Dark Wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next laugh was a bit forced. "All jokes aside, Mister
      Riddle, you are only in your fifth year and have yet to even take
      your OWLs. You know I can't make any suggestions or recommendations
      for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I had forgotten about those bloody stupid tests</em>. Tom
      sighed. "Yes, well, in any case, sir, I have to prepare to assault
      the enemy's home. So I'll leave you to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn was smiling freely again. "Ah, good luck to
      you Tom, I'm sure you will make Salazar Slytherin himself proud."
      Slughorn saluted Tom, and Tom returned it before walking away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost another hour was spent blithering around Hogwarts before
      Tom saw Bellatrix, outside by the lake, sitting halfway up a
      tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked up the tree. "Come down from there." He didn't want
      her looking down on him as they spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I like the view, the clouds' reflection on the lake is so
      pretty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bella. Come down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix sighed and gently floated down from the tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom began warding the area so they could talk in private.
      Unfortunately, Bellatrix always grew far too excited when he did
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could tell she was only waiting for him to finish the privacy
      enchantments to speak, so as soon as he finished but before
      replacing his wand, he said, "Bella, tell me all you know of
      defensive artifacts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Bellatrix frowned. "Generally, they are made from things
      that already have certain properties. I don't think they are often
      made from scratch, but rather have shields built into them, and
      folded over and over on themselves, like forging a sword."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom shook his head. "No, I don't mean a device for blocking
      attacks; I mean something that totally renders them inert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's eyes grew wide. "But I've never heard of anything
      like that before! That would be seriously powerful. Are you talking
      about something specific?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom already had his cover story. "Yes, but I plan to craft it
      myself, eventually. But what types of other protections would one
      put on such a device once they worked out the fundamentals? Say I
      made an amulet to wear around the throat, surely it should strangle
      anybody who happened to defeat me in some way…" Tom tapped his
      cheek with his finger, finally allowing the girl to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I mean... you could but… Most of these devices tend to have
      a mind of their own, they will betray their master if legitimately
      defeated. I don't know why, but my father told me that's almost
      always the way it works in legends, the powerful devices want to go
      to powerful wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So I just have to defeat the wielder of the amulet?</em> If
      the device simply handed itself over this would be much simpler,
      but he didn't trust that it would be that simple.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom waved his wand, and the world washed in around them
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that all?" Bellatrix sounded disappointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you can also go find Aerys Flintwood, and have him come to
      my dorm immediately. In fact, tell him to join you in my dorm, tell
      him there is gold involved, so binding him and dragging him along
      won't be necessary this time, Bellatrix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix looked intrigued, "What is this -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, if you will…" Tom gestured back towards the school and
      Bellatrix set off on her errand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Tom sat at his desk waiting, he practiced a few drills. He
      gestured with his wand and a glowing bat appeared, then lowered his
      wand and closed his eyes for a few moments to allow the bat to fly
      around. He snapped his eyes open and shot a small jet of blue light
      shot out, sending both back to non-existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was about to conjure another bat when he felt somebody
      reaching for his door through his wards. Releasing the wards, the
      door opened just as Bellatrix was about to knock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was standing there with the short weasel-faced boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you Bellatrix, you may wait outside." Tom said as he
      gestured Flintwood into his dorm, and shut the door on
      Bellatrix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix said you had some kind of job for me, Riddle?" The
      boy said warily. Tom found that out strange, as the boy was usually
      rather happy to earn some money.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What else did she say?" Tom could feel his magic leak with
      annoyance; likely the boy felt it too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She… She said that if I didn't report to your dorm within 10
      minutes flat you would give me a 10 minute head start to flee
      Hogwarts before you set after me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Damn you, Black!</em> "No, no, no…" Tom took a breath and
      composed himself again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Flintwood… All right. Look. Twenty-five galleons. How
      long to acquire three rings of specific metals?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flintwood straightened up and smiled. "I imagine I could find
      them somewhere within a couple of hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tin, Iron and Platinum, please deliver to Bellatrix." He waved
      the door open again. "Well, I wouldn't want to keep you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flintwood looked a little confused, but left without any
      questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alchemy provided some valuable secrets, especially as most
      wizards didn't give the subject a second thought once they heard it
      was all about "turning metal to gold." Few realized there was magic
      in metal, not much, but enough for some small advantage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom saw Bellatrix still standing outside his room. "Bella, I
      will need you to guard the door for me. If anybody other than the
      headmaster himself comes to interrupt me I want you to…" He thought
      twice about saying "curse them into oblivion," as this was
      Bellatrix Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is. If anybody comes to interrupt me, tell them I am
      studying in the library. Then take them there as if you were
      looking for me in the first place. I cannot be interrupted for the
      next few hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix tilted her head in confusion but simply nodded, and
      Tom closed the door on her again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom prepared every ward he possibly could on the door and turned
      to begin his work. <em class="calibre8">No more hesitating.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outside the door, Bellatrix could feel magic building up to
      protect the room - and then nothing. The huge force was all washed
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He must be working on his device, I can see why he wouldn't
      want to be interrupted, that would be delicate work. Could it be
      possible that he can create this device, as he spoke of it? He
      would have had to learn some deep magical secret, but knowing Tom,
      this is more than possible...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terence Keen gave Bellatrix an odd look as he walked past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom's in the library."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stopped, confused. "I wasn't looking for Tom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well he's in the library, do you want me to take you to
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Keen snorted. "Oh... the library, right, that's good to know."
      The boy took a step closer. "Come on, what type of blood magic is
      he really practicing in there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's eyes widened. She had to stop him!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he's practicing blood magic, do you think it's smart to be
      speaking so openly about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He should have just minded his own business in the first
      place.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin… You're serious aren't you?" Keen turned pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Am I?" Bellatrix put a sweet edge into her voice. "Even if he
      was sacrificing a bunch of squirrels, it wouldn't be any of your
      business."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I suppose not..." He looked at Tom's door once more and
      then walked away, rather quickly. Bella smirked and settled in with
      a book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a time, the rat-faced boy reappeared and handed Bellatrix
      a small pouch. "Look, I don't even want payment for that. Tell
      Riddle I don't want to be involved in any of this anymore, and I
      won't be helping him again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix put the pouch in her robes and waited for Tom to
      emerge, as she wouldn't interrupt whatever was going on inside the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was perhaps another hour before she felt the wards break; she
      stood up to attention as Tom opened the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His robes were fresh, but he was still sweating and looking pale
      and tired. "Do you have the package?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pulled it out of her robes. "I do. Tom, are you Ok? Just
      what did you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It iss no concern of yourss!" Tom seemed to hiss at her as he
      reached out, nearly snatching the pouch from her before he put it
      in his own pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to leave the school now for a short time and deliver
      this." Tom said, rather quickly, "You will continue to convince
      people I am present but unaccounted for at the moment, is that
      clear?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes." Bellatrix nodded vigorously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did anybody ask after me while I was inside?" Tom asked
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really, Keen was looking for you but I told him you weren't
      here and he left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good." Tom walked away without even bothering to ward his room
      again, so Bellatrix laid a few charms on the door and went on her
      way. <em class="calibre8">What in Merlin's name is he up to?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Tom turned the corner into the main common room, he stopped
      short, as it seemed everybody was staring at him. He wasn't being
      paranoid, they were in fact looking at him, and he didn't like the
      way they were whispering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix…" Tom thought, instantly regretting involving her in
      any way at all. He walked towards the exit, ignoring the looks. He
      couldn't help but hear the whispers though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">squirrels?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">blood"?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">ritual"?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he made his way across the room, it only made him more
      confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom left the common room and started down the hallway, and saw
      Headmaster Dippet and Professor Dumbledore were coming towards
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What? No! They can't know anything! Stay calm...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Headmaster Dippet was looking rather sheepish when he said,
      "Mister Riddle, I'm afraid you're going to have to come with us and
      answer some questions. I've received some alarming reports as to
      your activities."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked at Dumbledore; the man was looking rather severe, and
      stood just a few feet in front of the Headmaster. <em class="calibre8">Ha, Dippet
      won't approach me alone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wait.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's not... actually good...</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
