<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 1: Social Gatherings, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Social Gatherings</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Author's Note 4/28/16-</em> This fiction is divisive, with
      many people hating it. If you read for the destination and not the
      journey you will not like this. At all. This story started as a
      bunch of vignettes and grew into something more, but at its heart
      it remains a connected group of stories. There are large arcs, but
      they do not all resolve cleanly. - <em class="calibre7">Tao</em></p>
<hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked across the table at his mother, <em class="calibre7">His
      Mother,</em> and quietly sipped another spoon of Diricawl soup.
      Narcissa stared at her glass of wine, untouched in an ornate silver
      goblet engraved with three snakes poking their heads over the edge
      of the lip, as if drinking. The candles on the table burnt low, but
      had never (in all the years Draco had known) managed to finish that
      final inch of wax.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The chair at the head of the table sat empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, my son. I don't know how to act. I remember you as a
      baby. And to find a decade gone? Lucius gone? Our house …. " Draco
      put down his spoon, his mind racing with lessons, but … lessons
      were not for family.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mother. I don't know, either." Draco pushed his chair back and
      the house elves immediately scurried in, heads down, and cleared
      the table. "I don't remember you." He saw her try to hide a pained
      look and grimaced "No, I mean, I have glimpses in my mind" <em class="calibre7">that
      Harry said are just me remembering a daydream, not a real
      memory</em>. He paused while the elves left, as noiselessly as
      they'd entered. "But, you … you were coo-ing at me. And I don't
      remember you being gone, your Death, I remember Father telling me
      the stories over and over. I was supposed to love you
      automatically, by being your child, and that has been taking away
      from us. But I do remember the coo-ing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa smiled at that and finally picked up the glass of wine.
      "That could have been anyone. All the witches coo-ed at you, my
      beautiful boy." She drank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Earlier, there had been the greeting, Draco's shock as Professor
      - no, Headmistress - McGonagall re-introduced him with his long
      dead mother. Her confusion as memory charms faded away, then more
      anguish at the lost years. There had been joy, but joy mixed with
      anger. McGonagall had quickly brought them back to Hogwarts, and
      then they'd taken the Floo network home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now you are at Hogwarts...on your first great adventure.
      You must tell me everything, and quickly, because in three months I
      will lose you again." Narcissa saw Draco's control; there was no
      pained look. <em class="calibre7">Lucius could hide his emotions from everyone but
      me.</em> She looked around, reached into her robes (kept in her
      closet for years, unmoved except for a weekly cleaning) and drew
      out her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lumos</em>! <em class="calibre7">Lumos!</em> That's better" she said,
      putting her wand away. The pictures on the walls let out a small
      exclamation. Lord Montavian Malfoy, Father's Grandfather, who'd
      purchased the first insurance contract sold by Gringotts days
      before a group of Griffyindors slew his prized Hungarian Horntail,
      awoke with a snort. Draco looked around. He'd grown up in Malfoy
      Manor and the dining hall had always been cloaked in shadows, never
      bright. Noon outside meant dusk in the dining hall. He couldn't see
      the heraldry at night. Father always told him he needed darkness to
      plan carefully. But now …. he had so many secrets he wanted, he
      needed to share. <em class="calibre7">And so does she</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me about Father." Draco pulled his knees up to his chest
      and clutched them to him with his hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After you were born, your father's wand glowed silver for a
      month, and he seemed to fly up and down the stairs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Day turned to evening, and evening to night and morning with
      stories traded between mother and son, as they talked of her
      husband and his father and discovered the truth that was somewhere
      between the two.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">June 26th</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco opened the door and bowed low. "Madam Goyle. Madam
      Crabbe." He nodded at Gregory and Vincent, who stood slightly
      behind, and they nodded back. "Please, do come in." His mother's
      voice sang out from the dining room "Adrasteia! Tabitha! <em class="calibre7">It has
      been so long!</em>" Draco backed away and swept his arm low and
      across, gesturing for his friend's mothers to enter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vincent, you should take lessons in manners from Lord Malfoy,"
      said Madam Crabbe, her voice not steady. "Draco … you are becoming
      more and more like Lucius ..." she bowed her head and rushed past
      him, robes swishing noisily. Her voice brightened "Narcissa! When I
      heard …. I daren't hope it was true …." Madam Goyle was slightly
      past him when she stopped, turned back to him and squatted <em class="calibre7">so
      that she's looking up to me, not down at me</em> Draco thought
      automatically. "I am so sorry about your Father, Draco." He didn't
      try to stop the tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We all lost someone, Madam Goyle, and I am the only one who
      gained." She hugged him quickly, wiped the single tear from his
      face, smiled, and then went inside. Draco paused, then stepped
      outside and closed the door behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't we going inside?" Vincent asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory leaned against the wall, shaking his head "Do you really
      want to?" He raised an eyebrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco gathered his robes carefully and sat down on the steps.
      "How are you two doing?" This had been the first time they'd been
      able to see each other, outside of funerals and wakes. Vincent
      shrugged, and sat down next to Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're alone," said Vincent. "I mean, it's not like before
      school. You had friends and family. Now we've lost family and all
      of our friends are avoiding us, because we lost our fathers. When I
      went to Diagon Alley last week …. it's like we weren't there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's hard" said Gregory. "I get sad, and then angry." He picked
      up some pebbles and started throwing them down the path. "I wake up
      and I feel normal for a second, happy, and then I remember and I'm
      angry at myself." Vincent took out his wand and started casting at
      each passing pebble, <em class="calibre7">Ma-ha-su</em>, mostly missing but barely.
      Draco was impressed, given the size and speed, but just nodded.
      Gregory picked up another handful of rocks and continued "Some days
      I think I'm not mad enough. I'm just kind of drifting along. Should
      I be sadder? Happier?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Draco replied as a sharp <em class="calibre7">Ping</em> Sent a pebble
      veering off into the nearby trees. "Nice. I'm used to having a
      mask, like Father taught. But I can't tell if I'm wearing it
      enough, or too much." Laughter came from inside the house. After a
      moment, Gregory continued lazily throwing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does it bother you?" Gregory asked. Draco gave him a look.
      "That they are laughing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco thought about it. "A bit. But it's like you said. You
      should be sadder, but sometimes you aren't. So I can't really get
      angry." He shrugged. <em class="calibre7">What had it been called? Right. The
      Fundamental Attribution Error.</em> "They're reuniting. It's happy.
      We can't be what the world expects to see all the time. Why expect
      our Mothers to be? They need a break as much as we do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Vincent as his latest spell passed just behind the
      last rock. "We do." He sat down on the other side of Draco, crossed
      his left leg over his right. He scratched his neck with his wand
      before it disappeared back inside his robe. "Any plans for the rest
      of the summer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have to go through Father's papers." Gregory shot Vincent a
      surprised look. <em class="calibre7">Lord Malfoy</em> <em class="calibre7">kept notes</em>? "Nothing
      like that. Formal contracts, business arrangements. Its tedious.
      And studying. I've got to be ready for Defence this year. I've been
      reading about Wars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grindelwald, or older stuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggle wars, mainly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent had, by this point, laid down completely and was staring
      at the sky. A passing cloud, shaped like a sneering hippogriff,
      hinted of rainfall in the near future. "Why muggle wars? I mean,
      Dragon Army could probably defeat most muggle armies. And if not
      now, in a few years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. <em class="calibre7">He'd been thinking that, too. As he read about
      Thermopylae, Jutland, The Tet Offensive, Bunker Hill, Iwo
      Jima.</em> "Why could we defeat them, Vince?" Gregory stopped in
      mid throw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic" they said together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shook his head. "I don't think so." He raised his hands in
      surrender. "Yes. But not <em class="calibre7">just</em> that. If we fought a muggle
      army, they wouldn't know what we could do. We could apparate and
      disapparate. Adults could anyway. <em class="calibre7">We</em> could confound them,
      stupefy them. We'd have broomsticks. It would be a rout." Draco got
      up and started pacing. "But it's not the magic that makes it the
      rout. Look at what happened in all of our battles. Each armies
      magic is roughly the same." Vincent started to say something and
      Draco waved a hand, "with the houses split up we all had mudbloods"
      <em class="calibre7">No point opening that can of worms just yet</em> "and strong
      wizards and witches. We're better at Magic than Potter, even
      Granger is; but Potter won more often. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because nobody has any idea what he's going to do" muttered
      Gregory. Vincent nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right!" said Draco. "Two muggle armies <em class="calibre7">know</em> what they
      can do to each other. But if they face Wizards … they don't know!
      Every battle last year - <em class="calibre7">every single one</em> - was won or
      lost by surprise. Granger's army played dead in the first battle,
      Potter surprised them with that sunlight potion that decimated
      Sunshine Regiment, but we <em class="calibre7">out-surprised</em> him then. We knew
      what was coming," Gregory looked at him sharply and Draco smiled.
      "Well, we knew enough. So, no surprise. Our gloves. That potion of
      liquid night during the broomstick fight. The suits of armor.
      <em class="calibre7">Everything</em> in the lake with all those stupid plots...
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not all the battles, Boss" said Vincent. "Diggory's victory in
      the Great Hall?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered it. "OK, that's the exception that proves the
      rule. And sometimes history works that way too. Sometimes you get
      generals who just plod along, and then the better army wins. You
      <em class="calibre7">can</em> win by just being better and out preparing them. But
      it's safer to surprise them. Even V..." Draco's voice dropped.
      "Even You-Know-Who got tricked. Professor Quirrell was good, and
      maybe could have won if he was healthy. But something surprised
      Voldemort," Vincent flinched slightly, Draco pretended not to
      notice, "something got him. He went through our fathers, all of the
      Death Eaters without a scratch. Even Quirrell died. But something
      surprised him, and he lost too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco kept pacing. <em class="calibre7">Once you say it out loud its obvious. But
      what could surprise him? Maybe Quirrell set a trap and his entire
      attack was a distraction …</em> Draco frowned, then shook his head.
      He remembered a lesson from his father. He could even hear it in
      his Father's voice <em class="calibre7">Speculating when you do not have any
      information is a child's game, my son.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore?" said Vincent, not caring if Draco was annoyed. "He
      was crazy, but even You Know Who was scared of him." Draco started
      pacing again, unable to shake a feeling in his gut. <em class="calibre7">It was
      Potter. I don't know how, but..</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Ludicrous</em> said his inner Lucius. T<em class="calibre7">he boy is a mad
      genius, but that is too much. You underestimate Voldemort.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," said Gregory, "Dumbledore was dead. Probably the same
      time as Flamel. Draco's right. Quirrell gave some trap to Granger.
      She hit him with it once they both came back..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Look at the actual results and see who benefits,</em> Draco
      thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius got quiet. <em class="calibre7">You may be right, my son. But we have no
      way to know.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent shook his head. "The Professor was a Slytherin's
      Slytherin, sure. But he wouldn't do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure he would, she was a General. Killing her was a personal
      insult" replied Gregory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed. "In ANY case," he said. "If I read Muggle History
      <em class="calibre7">that Potter's already studied</em>, he'll have less to surprise
      me with this year. There are a ton of good ideas. Muggles may not
      know much, but they fought a lot of wars. And you notice patterns:
      How important it is to be able to communicate during a fight, to
      have good information, to have troops trained to work together. We
      learned all of that, even in a few battles, but if you start to
      look at hundreds of them you see lots of tricks. I don't want to
      have to discover everything ourselves. There's not enough
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paused for breath, "So even if Potter manages to, I don't
      know, Imperius the Giant Squid or something" <em class="calibre7">That's actually a
      good idea, and forgivable too, I think</em> "we'll at least smash
      Sunshine Regiment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent and Gregory froze, all camaraderie gone, rigidly formal.
      Draco saw the shift from relaxed friends to minions. Anxious
      minions. Draco glanced back and forth between them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" he said, his voice steady. Just then the head elf, a
      good hand taller than all of the other elves in Malfoy Manor,
      appeared with a poof and bowed to Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistress says that Young Lord and guests should come in for
      dinner." The elf didn't stand up from his bow, but shot a glance at
      Draco as he stood, frozen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Draco said louder, voice preternaturally steady, lest it
      crack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistress says..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not you!" he snapped. The elf, still bowed, disappeared with
      the sound of wet lightning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory took a deep breath. "You haven't been following the
      <em class="calibre7">Prophet?</em>" Draco shook his head. There had been too many
      funerals, and the aftermath of Voldemort's death and business
      papers and days and days lost where he hadn't gotten out of bed at
      all. Those were past, but he hadn't caught up and the Prophet could
      run itself for a while.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent looked him in the eye. "Granger sacked Azkaban."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dinner had been a slow, loud affair. As a child dinner parties
      bored Draco. Father had great plots, but Draco hadn't been
      involved, except in minor ways, plots he recognized now as
      disposable training devices. Still, Draco's education had been
      exhaustive from as soon as he could walk and talk and the more
      details he remembered and recited at breakfast, the better his
      chances for ice cream. At parties, Draco's boredom never dulled his
      eyesight. His attention. He'd mingle, chatting some but listening
      always. Once, when he was six, he'd discovered an elderly french
      witch in a closet with Olivander's assistant. That earned him ice
      cream for a week; although he hadn't understood <em class="calibre7">why</em> until
      last October.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tabitha," said Mother, "Draco tells me that Gregory is the best
      flyer in the year." Dinner had been a decidedly simple affair,
      roast beast with plain gravy, steamed vegetables, wine (butterbeer
      for the boys), and bread.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Goyle smiled broadly, but no teeth showed. Her hair, which
      had been done up in a tightly wrapped braid under her hat, now had
      one loose black hair hanging slightly out to the side. "Oh, yes,
      we'd heard. We were <em class="calibre7">quite</em> sure he was going to make the
      Quidditch team..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Crabbe nodded "I don't agree with a lot of what passes for
      education these days, but those armies are much better than that
      silly game anyway, isn't that right boys?" They all quickly agreed.
      "Gregory's stories about the battles are quite exciting, fighting
      in Draco's army."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Narcissa replied quickly, "Draco had good help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, that Professor <em class="calibre7">mixed the houses up</em> even made
      that mudblood girl a general," replied Madam Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Standards have fallen" sniffed Madam Goyle, and all the ladies
      nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco listened to the conversation, getting considerably more
      confused, boredom forgotten. This conversation felt different.
      There was the game of names, of course, subtle shifts of
      politeness. But there was something more, something he'd never seen
      at Father's parties. <em class="calibre7">This is the strangest conversation I've
      ever seen</em>. The chit-chat continued, each woman pleading how
      difficult things had been for her, <em class="calibre7">or her son</em>, and
      praising the other two families. Draco mulled it over, answering
      questions politely when asked, no different from Gregory or
      Vincent, in this situation. Just a boy at Mother's side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He listened for several more minutes, after Tabitha implored
      Gregory to "tell how Draco outwitted the Boy-Who-Lived in that
      battle in the woods" when Draco put words to his feelings. <em class="calibre7">It's
      a dominance contest, but in reverse. They are all humbling
      themselves … as a sign of friendship.</em> He thought about it and
      it explained everything. Father <em class="calibre7">had</em> said women play the
      Game differently. Draco relaxed. There would be times he'd have to
      fight, to maintain the position of House Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But not today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He listened to Gregory's story, surprised at how a story he
      knew, he'd lived, could sound so different. Gregory's point of view
      didn't minimize Draco's importance, but he'd seen such a different
      aspect of it, scouting while Draco cast spell after spell, that
      some of the turns surprised him. The bitterness of his personal
      defeat (not mentioned at all, of course) felt easy to swallow
      months later, especially when Draco considered that he'd been
      vanquished by the Girl-Who-Revived, by the Girl with a Phoenix. He
      found himself laughing while following the story, as Vincent and
      Gregory argued about who really stunned Hannah Abbott, if Dean
      Thomas had really ridden a centaur to outflank his second squadron
      or just stumbled on them in surprise and a cross fire of useless
      <em class="calibre7">Somnium</em> spells. Draco relaxed and truly enjoyed the party,
      happy to be among friends for the first time in a month.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd deal with problems another day. Miss Granger wasn't his
      enemy. Not really. But she was certainly Draco's problem. Draco
      Malfoy could be content with <em class="calibre7">second</em> place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Desert (pie and vanilla ice cream) had been brought out when
      there was a knock at the door. Draco got up and answered it. (The
      other two started to get up, but he just shook his head slightly).
      As the door opened Draco saw the uniform first, the person wearing
      it second. He nodded, smiled and bowed, a small delay to remember
      the names the Auror had, and which name was correct. He went by Li
      at Hogwarts...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Auror Li. To what do I owe the pleasure?" A formulaic greeting
      he'd heard any number of times. <em class="calibre7">Etiquette has many uses</em>,
      Father said, <em class="calibre7">but filling awkward silences and stalling are the
      two most important.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Malfoy." The Auror bowed, slightly compared to the
      formality of his words, "I am sorry, but there have been <em class="calibre7">a bit
      too many</em> instances of under-age magic detected here in the
      last hour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco opened the door and beckoned Li in, "I apologize, sir. Mr.
      Crabbe, Mr. Goyle and myself were showing off for our mothers." He
      made sure that his words carried. "With all of the troubles of the
      last month, it just slipped our minds. I'm sure you understand."
      Draco followed the Auror into the dining room where Li bowed,
      deeply this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Malfoy. Forgive the intrusion. Boys?" he held out his
      hand. Draco quickly took out his wand and handed it over. Vincent
      and Gregory got up slowly and complied as well. <em class="calibre7">Father bribed
      the Aurors to overlook this.</em> All of his words about how Malfoy
      Manor was not subject to this law had been true of course; but
      Draco had never thought about <em class="calibre7">why</em> that had been true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Vincent placed the third wand in the Auror's hand, Li took
      out his own wand, pointed it a Vincent's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Prior Incantato</em>," said Li. Draco's face fell into
      polite mask number one by the time the words were finished. Li
      looked at Vincent "I'm not familiar with that spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Quirrell taught it early in the year" said
      Gregory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For practicing aiming" said Vincent. The Auror nodded, and
      quickly cast again on the other two wands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mother saw it, the look on Auror Li's face when he examined
      Draco's wand. He paused. "I don't think I need to confiscate these.
      No harm in practicing, but …." he just placed the wands back on the
      table and bowed again. "My apologies for the intrusion, Lord
      Malfoy"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Everyone</em> saw the look the Auror shot Draco when he
      walked by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have a pleasant day, sir." Draco walked him back to the door,
      making sure he wasn't <em class="calibre7">quite</em> out of earshot when he said "I
      am sure we can continue my father's arrangement where I practice
      under strict supervision, if you can recommend a tutor..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time he returned to the table, a minute later, the
      conversation had started back up again. Draco told and listened to
      stories, but now he was considering several problems, the least of
      which was how to get around the restrictions on underage magic for
      the rest of the summer. He idly played with his ice cream which he
      no longer desired as he had before Hogwarts. Now he had real
      problems, real goals. Draco still liked ice cream, but associated
      it with childish pursuits, and he couldn't enjoy it at the
      moment.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">June 30th</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Augusta" said Mother, as Madam Longbottom pushed past the
      startled waiter and sat down at the table. She snapped and pointed
      to the empty setting in front of her, and the waiter scurried to
      get fresh plates.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Narcissa. Lord Malfoy. What <em class="calibre7">are</em> you wearing?" Narcissa
      was wearing a simple black robe with purple trim. Purple was the
      new rage, although this robe happened to be nearly fifteen years
      old. Draco wore a bespoke suit, charcoal with green tie kept neatly
      in place with a silver snake clip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good afternoon, Madam Longbottom" said Draco politely. "It is a
      muggle outfit. I have business in London after lunch." He'd bought
      the suit several weeks ago, the better to blend in. He'd learned
      this outfit would blend perfectly in their world …. when he turned
      twenty. After that disastrous outing he'd taken to wearing blue
      jeans and an atrocious orange jacket with hood and pullstrings,
      which looked terrible but was the correct fashion for children in
      that strange world. <em class="calibre7">Comfortable, though</em>. Mother liked the
      suit though, so he wore that until he was alone. And, although he'd
      never admit it, he liked the suit as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't let me keep you, dears. I just wanted to say hello."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Augusta</em>." Mother looked around, but the restaurant was
      mostly empty and what few patrons were there were looking at the
      couple going into Mary's Room. "There is no need for false
      hospitality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Longbottom took off her hat, her hair a mess underneath.
      "I offer none. You know I loathed Lucius. Do you know he only ever
      said two true things to me his whole life apart from his name? But
      we widows must stick together to survive. <em class="calibre7">That</em> bond I
      understand all too well." By now some settings had arrived and she
      poured herself a glass of tea. "And as for Lord Malfoy and I, why
      we have an even rarer bond."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We do?" Draco blurted out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We got someone <em class="calibre7">back</em>. That almost never happens. Now
      with the Ministry having discovered Merlin's Chalice, I suppose it
      will happen more often."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Daily Prophet had been ablaze for the last several weeks
      starting with the story of how Amelia Bones, the Director of
      Magical Law Enforcement had discovered Lord Voldemort's notes
      detailing various artifacts that could restore him to full power.
      This explained how You-Know-Who had been defeated so easily by a
      school girl, albeit "the most powerful witch her age any teacher
      could recall" according to Headmistress McGonagall. Lord Voldemort
      had returned to life, but had just started his quest to return to
      his full power. The article went on to discuss how Director Bones
      had carefully pieced together the notes with cryptic clues and
      hints left by Dumbledore. Put together those led her to the resting
      place of the Chalice. The story described how she and her Aurors
      had recovered it with minimal loss of limbs that could now, thanks
      to the Chalice, be fully healed and restored.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few days later the Prophet reported that a middle-aged DMLE
      Bones had presented the discovery (but not the Chalice itself) to
      the Wizengamot. You could still tell it was her in the pictures,
      although she was less angular than her older self she gave no
      indication of softness. After the announcement the Cures had
      started a trickle but now hundreds of people had been saved at
      Hogwarts (technically the Peverell Hospital located adjacent to
      Hogwarts) by Merlin's Chalice which reversed aging and healed the
      sick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And the insane, apparently</em>. Draco noticed that story
      confused him, but continued the conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville's parents are fine? I hadn't realized that the Chalice
      could cure ..." he stopped as Madam Longbottom nodded, blowing on
      her tea to cool it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've lived through terrible days." said Narcissa, "I'm glad we
      can now live through days of wonder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed" said Augusta. "Once all the <em class="calibre7">truly</em> old people
      have gone through, I expect I'll have a go." She chuckled softly at
      something. "But I just sat down here, forgive me, to offer my
      condolences and to tell Lord Malfoy something." Draco waited
      patiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seeing no response, Augusta continued "You know, last year
      during the … confusion, some parents and members of the Board of
      Governors stopped in at Hogwarts and witnessed one of David
      Monroe's battles. Fought by first years, no less." She said,
      between sips of tea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was fascinating, Narcissa. If Draco is shy, you must press
      him to open up about those armies. And if you have told your
      mother, Draco, I'd love to hear about them. Someday. But in any
      case, Young General Malfoy earned quite a lot of praise from David
      Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco blinked. Professor Quirrell had praised him? Publicly?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he had criticism too, but said Draco's mistakes were merely
      signs that he was still young."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As he is," said Narcissa, "although not as young as I remember
      him." She smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was during this battle that your Father said the second
      truthful thing. I thought you'd like to hear it. Your army won the
      battle, but Lucius took your … personal defeat ... badly. So he
      probably didn't ever say it to <em class="calibre7">you</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did he tell you, Madam Longbottom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he didn't tell me. He told <em class="calibre7">everyone</em>. He said," and
      here she put down her cup and stared at Draco, "'He will be the
      greatest Lord Malfoy that ever lived.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all sat quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know your anguish, Draco. I know your training was harsh; set
      to impossible standards, and now you've lost your Father." She
      started to get up, and reached for her coat. "But know that, even
      if he didn't show it, he loved you and was fiercely proud."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you Madam Longbottom. I know he loved me; but … I'd never
      heard him say it to anyone else." Augusta put her hat back on her
      head, secured it with a firm pat, then took her leave.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Author's note</em> (5/5/15) – This update fixes a few typos.
      In particular I always that it was Diraclaw, not Diricawl. I
      thought about leaving the typo and introducing a new creature, but
      for now I fixed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, thanks to Redditors at r/hpmor, for nitpicking. r/hpmor,
      for all your HPMOR needs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Additionally, Thanks to the guest who pointed out that Augusta
      misremembered the quote by Lucius Malfoy in Chapter 78. (The
      original says "has yet lived" instead of "ever lived.") I've
      decided to keep my (misremembered) wording because a) people's
      memories are not exact and b) it seems like the kind of detail
      that's easy to get wrong. Since, you know, I got it wrong</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
