<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 11: Defence and Offence, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Defence and Offence, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Asking someone for a favor can form a powerful
      bond.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco slept through lunch and the first half of History of
      Magic. Cutting class was a non-problem, students routinely answered
      roll call for each other. As long as you didn't say 'present' twice
      in a row, Professor Binns never noticed. Given his full load Draco
      had already considered ditching History of Magic anyway for the
      full year. Draco respected history and its lessons; but, Binns was
      worthless. He could probably pass all the final right now and use
      the extra time to study Runes. He didn't need to waste hours each
      week listening to Binns drone on and on about Goblin Revolutions.
      He could sleep, like the other students, but it wasn't nearly as
      comfortable as his bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Only Binns could make Goblin Revolutions <em class="calibre7">boring</em>.
      History tutoring started even before magical tutoring at Malfoy
      mansion. Draco's bedtime stories, like all great fables, taught
      lessons.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stretching awake, Draco pulled out his schedule.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">3pm – Intermediate Muggle Studies (All Houses). Professor
      Asimov. (New Annex).</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco blinked. Intermediate? He hadn't signed up for
      intermediate. Had Harry adjusted his schedule? He'd asked Harry, on
      the train, about tutoring. Draco walked through the dungeons,
      navigating automatically. Left - past the picture of Mad Witch
      Matilda - laughing as she burned in a bonfire. She'd enjoyed it so
      much Muggles 'caught' her dozens of times in the 1500s. Up the
      Squeaking Stairs, air no longer cool as Draco arrived in the main
      levels. He headed for the Great Hall, taking the long way instead
      of risking a shortcut. Headmistress had told them directions to the
      Annex, from the Great Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The schedule allowed plenty of time between classes, especially
      for the first week of school as students discovered changes over
      the summer. Walls stood in the middle of hallways, pits and
      spring-loaded traps would launch you onto a balcony. Last December
      a shimmering gateway - a bright orange oval - had appeared in the
      wall underneath Mad Matilda. Anyone stepping into it would step out
      of another gate, identical to the first but blue, a mere minute
      from Potions. Slytherins grumbled bitterly when it disappeared a
      few days later, it had cut out a good ten minutes of walking. Each
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco came to the Great Hallway and walked down the new set of
      short, black stairs, wide enough for only a single person.
      Fortunately a second set crossed over the first, enchanted so that
      students could only go up. The grooves on each stair, coupled with
      the graceful curve of the vertical side reminded students of the
      the black Elbonian ridgeback dragon, and the name had stuck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stepped off the Ridgeback and turned left, hearing the
      matching giggles. He pulled out his wand and quickly aimed it at
      Flora and Hestia Carrow. Hestia, straight hair in a ponytail,
      square glasses that actually looked quite fetching, served in
      Diggory's army last year but Flora had finished her O.W.L.S. He
      aimed at Hestia on instinct and stepped back, to get some
      distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do we scare you, Malfoy?" Flora swished her wand with a flick
      of the wrist left right left right making little <em class="calibre7">tsk tsk</em>
      cutting noises in the air. All the Carrow girls were short, but she
      stood taller than Draco, probably would for the full year. Hestia's
      wand never wavered off him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco breathed deeply while speaking. "No, although I wonder
      where your sister has wandered off to. A falling out?" Draco's eyes
      never left Flora, but he shifted his head slightly to adjust his
      peripheral vision. Draco didn't see anyone else. He'd been early,
      but other students should be following in a few minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Going to study the ikky Muggles, Drakey?" That would sound
      silly if Flora said it, Hestia pulled it off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm just <em class="calibre7">Steleus!</em>" Draco shouted the hex out and
      threw himself to the right to avoid Flora's <em class="calibre7">stupefy,</em> cast
      almost at the same time. Hestia handily blocked his curse but Flora
      doubled over sneezing. Hestia's <em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em> went wide and
      Draco <em class="calibre7">flipendo</em>'d Flora to the ground, going for the easy
      hit and removing her from the fight before she recovered. Flora
      tumbled backwards, still sneezing and Draco ran left (so his right
      hand wasn't blocked by his own torso). He blocked Hestia's drill
      breaking hex and tried his own <em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus</em> when he heard
      a screeched <em class="calibre7">Ventus Tria.</em> Draco dived for the floor as the
      jet of wind rushed over his back, but still got thrown sideways by
      the blast. He hit the ground rolling, hard slippery cobblestones
      digging into his shoulder blades and the world was upside-down when
      he spotted Sheila, the cow. Draco kept rolling then slapped the
      ground with his left arm to stop, his right arm pointed back</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Tarantallegra!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't wait, waiting got you hit, he'd already shoved both
      arms under him and he was scrabbling forward, crawling as he
      climbed into a run. Sheila went down in a tangled mass of her own
      two legs, but Hestia was behind him. Draco juked and heard several
      jinxes but didn't see anything. He glanced over his shoulder and
      she was aiming and shouting. Just shouting, not actually casting.
      Waiting for a good shot. Draco spun around, stumbling, and fired
      off a <em class="calibre7">Maledictonum,</em> which just caused stuttering and
      twitching and was more prank than hex, since it only affected
      normal speech and not spells. But it <em class="calibre7">sounded</em> dangerous and
      he'd won three fights by firing off random spells and having his
      targets dodge wildly in fear. Last November, Hannah Abbot jumped
      into the lake to avoid Draco's magical hair grooming. Hestia stood
      her ground, either recognizing the spell or seeing that he'd fire
      wide, and her carefully aimed <em class="calibre7">Colloshoo</em> hit Draco squarely
      in the chest. With his feet stuck to the ground Draco's momentum
      bent him awkwardly the waist and he felt the blinding light as his
      head impacted the cobblestone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then darkness.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Ennervate!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anxious faces looked down at Draco. Students milled past them,
      peered in, giggling, gasping, laughing and shouting. A hand was
      reaching down to help him up and Draco focused on it, grabbed it.
      As he started to pull himself up he realized he'd been kicked hard
      in the sides and pain shot through him. He couldn't pull himself up
      and the hand easily pulled him to his feet, steadied him, and Draco
      finally looked at the face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Robert," Draco gasped. His left knee almost gave out
      and Susan Bones slipped herself into his side as Robert cast more
      spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Episkey</em>. You still look terrible," Robert said. "Your
      face is worse. You should go see Pomfrey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll be fine. I've already missed one class today." Draco
      looked around and saw that, apart from Robert Jugson, the huddle
      had been Susan, Padma, Neville and a particularly worried Vincent.
      Draco cocked his head. Vincent understood, but the throbbing pain
      Draco felt made him think it would have been better to ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They were kicking you pretty hard," said Vincent, "something
      might be broken. We were heading back from Muggle Studies but they
      ran off once Robert saw them." Vincent didn't need state the
      obvious, Gregory had chased after them, to confirm who was involved
      and enact any retribution.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was the Carrows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw at least four people around you, but only one kicking."
      said Padma. There was disagreement, Neville thought it was just
      three. Robert offered that Shelia had gotten a few boots in. Draco
      put a bit of weight on his knee. He could walk, gingerly. Vincent
      latched on to the side opposite Susan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks for getting them off me. That could have turned ugly."
      The general opinion was that it had gotten ugly. Robert mumbled a
      goodbye and walked off. By now there wasn't much of a crowd going
      past out of class, but a small trickle of older students were
      descending the Ridgeback while Draco, supported by Susan and
      Vincent, made the slow walk down the hall. Draco fumbled for his
      wand and pointed it to his sides and mumbled <em class="calibre7">Te Manawa.</em>
      The pain eased. Draco shifted the wand towards his face and cast
      <em class="calibre7">Tango Karawarawa.</em> He didn't have a mirror so he cast it
      again until Vincent nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoys collected spells that improved your appearance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After being lowered (gently) into a seat in the back row Draco
      numbed his knee, which he hadn't dare do while walking. A few other
      glamours improved his appearance and fixed his clothing. Most
      students would hear the gossip, but at least Draco didn't
      <em class="calibre7">look</em> like someone who lost a fight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor spoke into a device that apparently functioned
      like a <em class="calibre7">Sonorus</em> spell. He also had sheets of paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good afternoon, class. I am Professor Asimov. As you may know,
      I've recently been hired to teach at Hogwarts. Forgive me for not
      knowing your names, although I have a class list here with
      pictures. Since I am a squib, I ask that you keep your actual
      appearance and not take this opportunity to prank the new teacher.
      We will focus on Muggle society trends instead of simple facts.
      However, since your prior classes were hogwash I'll summarize the
      facts, at least for the English Speaking Muggle world. As we
      progress I'll be interested to hear what topics you'd like to
      cover, and we will move towards a dialogue. Today's topic will be a
      brief history of the Industrial Revolution, and the impact on the
      Muggle beliefs in magic..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the end of the lecture Draco waited for the room to clear
      before removing the anesthetic spell on his knee. He used the
      chair's hand-rests to push himself up, then extended his left leg
      to the ground. It held.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you use magical healing?" Professor Asimov, walking
      down the aisle towards Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Healing spells require raw power. I'll have to be older before
      I have it. They don't even start theory for a few years." Draco
      started out the door and the Professor walked with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are younger than your classmates, but not a Muggle born, so
      why are you in my class … Draco?" The professor had rifled through
      the sheets and found a picture of Draco. He'd done that several
      times to call on students during the class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I figured you'd know, sir." Draco moved slower than strictly
      necessary, but it made his walk seem less like a hobble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Headmistress didn't say, and you needn't be so formal,
      Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. Although if you don't mind some advice, you are too
      <em class="calibre7">informal</em> in lectures. You should stick to Mister So-and-so
      and Miss whoever." Draco paused and thought. "Now that I think
      about it, I'm not sure if that's a national difference or a
      Muggle/Wizarding difference. Is there a word for that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that I'm aware of. My apologies, then Mr. Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None required, as I knew it was an innocent mistake. But some
      students don't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that must be why you were in my class." The Professor
      stopped at a small doorway. Draco realized it was a Muggle door you
      might see in a home, gaudily painted, two small squares inlaid, one
      atop the other. "This is my office. Do you have a few moments?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco followed Professor Asimov in. The room was lined with
      shelves, books stacked a dozen high on the desk, leaving only
      enough free space for a manual typewriter, some paper, and several
      legal pads. Draco squeezed past the visitor chair to look at the
      closest shelf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wrote all of these?" All the books said "Asimov" or "Isaac
      Asimov." Many titles read as gibberish but some were science books.
      There must be hundreds of books, all four rows were written by his
      Professor. Draco found a title and picked it out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mostly just that bookcase. I'm afraid that book isn't what you
      hope, Draco." Draco put <em class="calibre7">Young Witches and Wizards</em> back on
      the shelf and continued browsing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just Muggle fiction, I'm afraid. The majority of my books are
      fiction, although I wrote general interest pieces on current
      scientific knowledge. Current for the time, I suppose." Draco
      spotted a picture on the back of one book's outer paper wrapper,
      which showed the Professor as a much older man, gray hair, skin
      dropping, but still the same glasses and general look. Draco judged
      the man in the picture to be roughly 100, firmly middle aged. He
      put the book back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, they made you younger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I imagine I'd be dead in a few years if not. I'm grateful that
      Headmistress McGonagall offered me this position. Anyway, I wanted
      to ask you something, Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Professor Asimov." Draco kept browsing. His training
      told him to sit, he could hear his tutors screaming. But Harry
      Potter had clearly hand-picked this Muggle and Draco had heard
      <em class="calibre7">you can never have too many books</em> often enough. Such a
      prolific author and scientific expert deserved study. Anyway,
      expressing interest in a Ravenclaw's writing surely exemplified
      politeness. Probably. For Muggles, too. Maybe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you OK? I mean, I gathered from the other students that
      you'd been in a fight with several older students, and given what
      you told me about raw magical talent...well." Isaac Asimov watched
      the young boy examining the books stop and consider. He stood
      almost straight, although his weight was obviously on one leg. He'd
      spoken well, partially due to how refined British English sounds to
      an American ear, but the boy had an aristocrat's bearing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am OK, in the sense that you just offered to help and I am
      declining. I surely don't know how things like this are handled …
      outside. But you damage us both if you publicly interfere. But, I
      thank you for the offer, Professor Asimov." Once Draco started
      speaking he'd gone back to browsing books titles. They may reveal
      something, but he only understood a fraction of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, call me Isaac. And I don't understand how you can let
      them do that, and others can stand by, it's just not natural."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this Draco sat. "To answer your question, first of all that
      happened to be a reasonably fair fight. Some magic is about raw
      age, but not most of it. As to your other question, I'll answer,
      but I need to know how much you understand. What did they tell you
      about us and about the relationship between our worlds? About last
      year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Magic was real. I'd seen a little bit, here and there, as
      a child. A talking cat scolded me for almost getting run over on
      5th Avenue, when I was, oh, around eight years old. I'd see a
      doorway nobody else could see. Things like that. So, for a while
      I'd believed in magic, but never found any evidence, so I just
      dismissed it as being young and foolish..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed internally. Most people, when asked a question,
      told a personal story instead of giving an answer. Ninety percent
      of politics involved feigning interest and Draco kept nodding. But
      to listen to someone who'd written literal bookshelves of relevant
      knowledge spout on ….</p>
      <p class="calibre6">("That must have been hard on you," said Draco) ...was
      particularly frustrating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, my experience nourished my sense of wonder, made
      me question those around me. It may have kept me from following
      those foolish beliefs that captured so many of my friends, although
      my father helped. They didn't believe my stories, why should I
      believe theirs? And I see those like me, squibs, born into your
      world and they seem bitter. Better to glimpse these visions than
      stare at them too long. You don't risk staring at the sun, not
      before you have the right tools. Fortunately we only have one, not
      six."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Draco didn't know exactly what would happen if more suns
      appeared in the sky. Maybe you could deal with a second. OK, but
      hot. More sounded dangerous, especially if there was a water
      failure, and there would probably be a panic...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry. Just a phrase. Anyway, I was shocked to find out I
      hadn't been imagining it. They offered youth and health for
      teaching, and of course I jumped. Even without that I'd have done
      it, just to learn. I know about the Statute of Secrecy, of course.
      I'm sworn to keep that. Not that I'll be allowed to leave the
      campus for several years, until things get settled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't being coerced? Did you actually swear to any spell?
      Or just give your word?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't had any magic done to me, apart from the healing."
      Professor Asimov seemed confident.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Not that you know. But even a Muggle would recognize an
      Unbreakable Vow as magic.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how we view your world?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know that most of you don't really give it much thought, but
      those who do don't think well of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you said: facts first, then implications. So, the facts.
      They told you the polite version. For the other houses you
      basically don't exist, or are maybe some exotic rarity. For my
      house, Slytherins, Muggles are sub-humans, not even worthy of pity.
      How Muggles might treat people of different colour a century ago,
      as Harry Potter explained it to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Asimov interrupted, "Harry who?" Draco didn't pause,
      but just filed the information away. <em class="calibre7">Either Harry is busy, or
      worried about some appearance of impropriety.</em> He'd think about
      it later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, just my room-mate. Raised by Muggles. I haven't examined
      his books closely but I <em class="calibre7">suspect</em> he owns several of your
      books. I'm surprised he hasn't asked to talk to you. But anyway,
      you heard about last year? About the murders? Yes, then the fallout
      also affected Slytherin. Most victims and Voldemort, the murderer,
      were Slytherins. Voldemort preached hatred of Muggles. He's dead,
      but still has followers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So … this is not simple bullying then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I insist you do not get involved, for your own safety. I
      know it must sound odd, to hear this from a child." Draco looked
      abashed, but sounded firm. "But I suspect you'd get the same advice
      from the Headmistress or teachers. Stick to teaching your lessons,
      and learning about us. Let the situation cool. Even your presence
      is provocation enough, to some. I got ambushed by three witches
      because they fear me. They fear what you represent, but they don't
      fear <em class="calibre7">you</em> personally. I suspect that's why you can't leave
      Hogwart's. The wards aren't perfect, but if you wandered without
      protection..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you for the advice, Mr. Malfoy." Professor Asimov sounded
      unconvinced, but solemn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Professor ... Isaac. If you don't mind, I'd like to
      continue these chats. I believe we can both learn quite a lot. I
      know that I have so many questions."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> – When I came up with DMPOR and
      added a Muggle professor of Muggle Studies, I decided to only
      consider people listed on the Wikipedia Category "Muggles who Died
      in 1992." I kept looking after I saw Isaac Asimov's name (it felt
      silly to give up without even finishing the As) but he really is
      the perfect choice and after I got halfway through the alphabet I
      finally admitted it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">According to Muggle History he died in April of 1992, which is
      prior to Harry getting the stone. This is not important to the
      plot, but it's a nit I choose to ignore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It has also been pointed out that Gilderoy was a Ravenclaw in
      canon. Yeah, that's another divergence. So, when I say I'm trying
      not to diverge from HPMOR, I'm not trying hard, especially on
      little details. (I am not diverging from Multiple-Hypothesis
      Testing, at least I don't think so, but I'll let that speak for
      itself.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Update #2 - It has been pointed out that Matilda is just
      Wendelin the Weird, whom I probably vaguely remembered. Oh
      well.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
