<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 13: Bold Thinking, Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Bold Thinking, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Foolish people work hard to appear happy. Work hard to be
      happy." - Lucius Malfoy<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The howler arrived early, well before breakfast. It didn't
      arrive in the Great Hall, of course. Draco had heard Tanaxu's
      arrival and groggily opened his eyes in time to see the letter,
      growing red and about to burst. Draco managed to grab the letter
      and dive into Harry's trunk before it exploded. Harry slept through
      it, of course, his Quietus slider was always set to high when he
      slept. Draco preferred to be able to hear his surroundings, even if
      that disturbed his sleep from time to time. Still, Gregory only
      caught a few words, which meant that the rest of Slytherin probably
      hadn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, heart pounding, Draco sat at his desk writing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Mother,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We are family, and if not as close as we should be, still I
      do not wish to plot against you.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I share your concerns about our future, but money sitting in
      a vault acts as a general's reserve, and like a reserve it must be
      used at the proper time. I will cease spending "extravagantly" if
      you aid my search for Severus Snape and assist my investigations.
      Father swore Snape joined Voldemort, yet he survives. Besides, I
      fear you are moping. I know it is not my place, but it would serve
      you well to get out of the house.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Please, for his memory and our future, assist me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">PS What do you know of my Professors? Which may be
      allies?</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Don't ogres make soup out of people's bones? That would
      explain the skinning," said Vincent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Offense started in thirty minutes and most of the class were
      still brainstorming theories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville shook his head. "I don't think Ogres sneak up on people
      like that. If they attacked, everyone would know. I'm thinking it's
      a Tystnaden."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm. That might work," said Hermione. She still stayed in the
      regular girl's dorm and Lavander Brown had instantly sought out the
      most famous Gryffindor's advice, since everyone knew that Hermione
      had read <em class="calibre7">literally dozens</em> of books. Hermione, intrigued,
      had spent several days reading through the library to see if she
      could solve this mystery. Seeing that nobody apart from Neville
      knew what they were discussing, she explained. "The Tystnaded is a
      creature that obliviates anyone who sees them. So, you see, it may
      have actually stumbled on the whole group, killed one of them, and
      then the rest of them forgot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooh, what do they look like?" said Colin Creevey. He'd attached
      himself to the group as had several other students. Any spotting of
      Hermione Granger <em class="calibre7">and</em> Harry Potter drew a crowd, these
      days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, obviously nobody knows," sniffed Hermione. She was used
      to the crowds, but the fact that the first year kept following her
      around made her wary. Still, she'd gotten used to it enough that
      she didn't put as much bite into her words as most girls would
      have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They sound dangerous. Tricky," said Harry. He'd also been
      attracted to the problem but hadn't had nearly as much free time
      and hadn't even heard of a Tystnaden until now. "If <em class="calibre7">only</em>
      the people who see them get obliviated, then would probably want to
      avoid crowds. Others would see the first people getting confused,
      they'd get wary. Maybe start casting area-effect hexes. If
      <em class="calibre7">I</em> were a Tystnaden I don't think I'd attack crowds. I'd
      pick off lone individuals. But the creature did that, or they think
      it did. So why would the Aurors separate?" Harry looked visibly
      shaken and spent several hours over the next day planning how to
      defeat a Tystnaden. The first trick was to recognize you'd been
      obliviated, and it would help to precommit to what kind of message
      you'd leave yourself...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The conversation continued while the first years poured out of
      the lecture hall and Luna Lovegood, hearing strange and possibly
      mythical creatures named by several students, chimed in. "It's a
      Yautja," she said, in an air less distracted than she usually
      used.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've never heard of that," said Draco, who had followed behind
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said Luna sweetly. "They are invisible hunters who
      only attack the strongest victims. Like Aurors, or adventurers.
      It's their rite of passage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre7">does</em> kind of fit," said Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why aren't more people killed by them," asked Hermione. "I
      mean, if every one of these creatures has to do this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, they rarely hunt on Earth," said Luna. "It's too far
      away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several students laughed and Harry Potter just snorted while the
      discussion turned to reasonable options.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In Peverell Hospital, Draco walked around examining security
      when someone called his name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," said one of the Weasley twins, "he's got you doing it too.
      Any ideas?" The other one was quickly rolling up a scroll of some
      sort. Draco thought he saw a map, which made sense. He was still
      getting a feel for the layout. Security seemed impossibly tight,
      with Aurors guarding entrances and confiscating anything useful
      (although they'd let him keep a quill and his journal, to take
      notes). Draco glanced from one to the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twins raises a possibility. Have you considered using the two
      of you, one disguised as someone else? Then removing it for the
      confusion aspect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thief's Downfall." They said together. Then they started
      alternating phrases. "And please / we're experts / First thing we /
      thought of. We've racked our brains / trying to take advantage /
      it's hard to see something." One shrugged, slightly ahead of the
      other turning around. The Aurors watched them carefully. Draco had
      shown a note from Harry to allow him in (searched, but he could get
      the benefit of a doubt to bring in items that might normally be
      confiscated).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assume there's an anti-Apparition jinx?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said Fred, or maybe George. A trio of Aurors
      started to move a patient from his bed into the Healing Room, and
      Draco heard the splash of the Thief's Downfall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco asked "Do we know if that blocks non-Wizards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm not sure," said George or maybe Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They exchanged a look and Fred, Fred?, continued. "We tried to
      summon the Sorting Hat but it doesn't answer us most of the
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George, George?, shrugged. "I think it knows when we're
      <em class="calibre7">actually</em> desperate and testing doesn't count."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was actually thinking more of House Elves," Draco said. One
      of the twins raised an eyebrow and they all huddled together to
      discuss possible solutions.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In the dungeons <em class="calibre7">near</em> Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter realized, now that he lived there, that this unused
      classroom lit with eerie green light didn't belong to the Slytherin
      dungeons proper. Draco had never let him into the Syltherin
      Dungeons, the rest of the Slytherins referred to this as the
      "public" dungeon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which made it still convenient to teach lessons to the expanded
      Bayesian Conspiracy. Draco invited the Silvery Slytherins, so that
      added Daphne Greengrass and Gregory. (Draco tried to not think of
      her as Daphne <em class="calibre7">of</em> Greengrass, because he might slip and say
      it. A Malfoy never insults <em class="calibre7">by accident</em>). Harry Potter had
      invited Hermione and Neville, for now. For the first two weeks
      lessons covered material Draco already knew. He'd co-taught,
      provided examples, translated Muggle concepts into Wizarding terms.
      But now Draco found himself lost with the rest of the non-Harry
      Potters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd gotten diverted when Draco stated that the methods didn't
      help during a fight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean, of course they do" said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm being imprecise," Draco admitted. "They help at times
      during a battle, but during lulls. I'm not saying that they are
      useless. Just limited during an actual battle. Once the spells are
      flying you don't have time for this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The techniques are useful for decision making, and you make
      decisions all the time during battle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco just cocked his head in question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You kind of don't," said Neville. "I mean, you are flying
      around with Chaotic Leaps, kicking, punching, casting spells,
      dodging. We spend a lot of time <em class="calibre7">preparing</em>, but during the
      battle itself we just kind of re-act. I mean, if you imagine a
      battle where your enemy chats with you for a few hours sure …. but
      real battles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said "Right. All the decision making is done ahead of
      time. And it's been <em class="calibre7">really useful</em>, I agree. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. "Right. I mean, I'm certainly making decisions,
      but all of these techniques, they cost too much time I just pick
      something that's good enough. It's not like I'm consciously
      deciding or weighing trade offs. It feels like I'm not making any
      decisions at all, during a fight. On the first day, when I got
      ambushed, it's not like I did anything clever. Either time I got
      ambushed. I don't feel like I made any decisions, even though I
      tried. But that's only when the spells fly. Even in a battle,
      there's lots of time to think about things. Just not then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered this for a full minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a theory for this, called recognition primed decision
      making. They interviewed firefighters and soldiers to figure out
      how they made decisions, and they talked to one fire captain who
      said he didn't think he'd made a decision in a fire during his
      entire career. He did, of course, he made lots of decisions. Once,
      there was a tiny fire in a two-story house. His team goes into the
      ground floor and uses a muggle <em class="calibre7">Aquamenti</em> to douse the
      fire, but it doesn't go out. In fact, the fire roars back at them.
      So the captain orders his men out, and right as they are leaving
      the floor collapses. It turns out there was a basement and it had
      been on fire for a long time. The captain attributed getting his
      men out to his sixth sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. "But you see, it was really just him
      subconsciously noticing confusion. Once the interviewer sat down
      and asked him to explain the situation in detail, explain it to
      someone who wasn't a fire-fighter, there were all these tiny
      details he'd noticed. The way the smoke moved, the way the fire
      reacted. The captain knew it didn't add up, so he did the prudent
      thing and retreated. Just in time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but the only lesson is to be experienced," Draco said.
      "Other people, even the novice fire fighters didn't notice the
      problems. You can't teach that. Our battles give us that
      experience, and we use the techniques outside of battles,
      afterwards, to clarify our thoughts. We prepare. The preparation
      makes us strong. It's not that the techniques are useless, not by
      any means."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held up his hand, and Draco stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree, but I think I can explain this better. We've covered
      experimentation and falsifiability, but <em class="calibre7">efficiency</em> matters
      in the real world too. I agree with your general point. Sometimes
      you have to make snap decisions, and yes, in those cases you can't
      do everything perfectly. Unlike the 2-4-6 game, sometimes you don't
      have the time or ability to make a bunch of predictions and get
      answers. Sometimes you only have a few chances, or even one chance,
      like the fire-fighter. I think there are some applicable
      lessons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Consider Chocolate Frogs. They come with those Famous Witch and
      Wizard trading cards, right? Well, they <em class="calibre7">appear</em> to be
      randomly distributed. I couldn't afford real chocolate frogs, and
      it would distract us to have them, so I just made a pretend set of
      trading cards. I'd been saving this for another lesson, but I think
      it applies. Suppose you want to complete your set of trading cards.
      If you could predict which card was in which box, you'd just have
      to buy one box to complete your set, instead of trade. And you only
      have enough money to buy so many frogs before you run out of money
      or your parents ground you for eating too much chocolate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been mumbling a few words here and there, and finally
      pulled a pack of Muggle cards from his pouch and set them on the
      table. "Rather than guess the exact person on each card, we'll just
      guess if it's a Witch or Wizard. Here, I'll deal a few cards
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry flipped over the top cards of the deck and placed them on
      the table. Draco got a Wizard, Daphne got a Wizard, Gregory got a
      Witch, as did Hermione. Neville got a Wizard and then Harry flipped
      up another card and placed a Wizard in front of himself. Harry
      picked up the next card and looked at Draco. "Let's play a game, at
      your turn you guess the gender whoever gets the most cards correct
      gets an actual Chocolate Frog."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Witch," said Draco. "We've never seen more than two in a row,"
      he added. Harry flipped over the card and put it down in front of
      Draco. It was a Wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't feel bad. You made a prediction and you were wrong, but
      you stated a rule that could be falsified. You performed an
      experiment. Incidentally, that reminds me of the Better's Oath. We
      aren't betting, but we are playing a game for stakes, which is
      similar. I happen to like betting because it forces you to think
      clearly about how probable something is. Anyway, part of the
      Better's Oath is 'When I win a bet, I will not shame my opponent,
      for a betting loser has far more honor than the mass of men who
      live by loose and idle talk.' So it would be wrong of us to shame
      Draco, he had an idea, he tested it. He's learned something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held out the next card, still face down, in front of
      Daphne. "Witch. I don't know, it just seems like we've had a lot of
      Wizards." The card was a witch. Harry started to hand it to her,
      then just put it down and put a pebble on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That way we can still see the pattern. I'll mark the correct
      cards. Winner still gets a frog. Since we're talking about fast
      decision making, you have to think fast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory guessed Wizard correctly, Hermione incorrectly called a
      Witch, Neville guessed Witch and got one. Harry flipped up a wizard
      in front of himself without guessing, then pulled out a card for
      Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held the card still. "You don't have a theory?" Draco just
      shrugged so Harry flipped up the card, it was a wizard. They played
      a few more rounds, faster this time, then Harry set aside the deck
      and said. "OK, we have a moment to retreat. Now we can apply the
      theories. So, what do we know. You can see the pattern that's
      there. Look at what you see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione started. "There are 30 cards out, and 19 of them are
      wizards, which seems like yet another bias against Witches. I know,
      these are famous ones and there are more famous wizards than
      witches, but it still goes that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco said "We've had up to five wizards in a row, starting with
      Neville's fourth card and working around. We've only had three
      witches in a row."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory had been doing some counting. "After a witch, we had 7
      wizards and 4 witches. I'm not sure that means anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville started to bring up Arithmancy, but Harry cut him off.
      "The lesson has nothing to do with that. Well, not with Wizarding
      Arithmancy, math is involved. But I promise it doesn't have
      anything to do with magical numbers. Well, I suppose it could, but
      since I don't know much about it it's not my intent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let them discuss the patterns for four more minutes. "Does
      anyone have any theories or ideas?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody did. Actually, Gregory proposed a rather elegant theory,
      but Neville found a counterexample in the second round. Gregory
      thought about this and modified his theory, and Harry pointed out
      that this additional complexity should weigh against him believing
      his theory, but that didn't mean it was wrong. But nobody else had
      any ideas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK," said Harry, "Now we're back to an actual battle. I'm going
      to deal out the rest of the cards. Three left for each person.
      Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By this point Draco had given up. The pattern was too complex
      for him to see. He picked Wizard the next three cards, and was
      right twice. After another minute, the deck was exhausted and Draco
      was tied with Neville and Daphne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should have made more cards, a tie was too likely. When I
      thought of this I figured we'd have fewer people. Anyway, we've got
      enough information to prove my point. Gregory's theory was proven
      wrong soon after he amended it, so there's that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what was it?" asked Neville. "What was the pattern?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it was random. Just like I said it appeared. I made the
      cards with the right ratios and then shuffled them up before I got
      here. About 70% of the cards are Wizards and 30% are Witches, which
      seems to be the actual ratio the Chocolate Frog company uses,
      because there are more famous Wizards than Witches, Hermione, which
      may or may not be unfair but that's how it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you rigged it," said Gregory. "There's no lesson."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, there are lots of lessons. The first lesson is that people
      are really good at finding patterns where none exist, and then
      convincing themselves to ignore other evidence. We're trained to
      see patterns, we see faces in clouds. More importantly the cost for
      being wrong is usually much much lower than the cost for not seeing
      a pattern. If you saw a stick and thought it was a snake and jumped
      up, the worst that would happen is that people would laugh at you.
      But if you didn't see a snake that was there, you could get killed.
      So that's why we jump at shadows. Seeing a pattern that isn't there
      is called Pareidolia, by the way. As for the second lesson. Daphne,
      why did you bet Wizard, Witch, Wizard for your last three
      rounds?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, <em class="calibre7">not knowing it was random,</em> I just tried to make
      sure that I guessed two wizards to one witch. That was the closest
      thing we had to a pattern."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and then turned to Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same idea. By the last round I had six wizards and only one
      witch, so I called witch and got it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you, Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't see a pattern, so I just called Wizard each time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why wizard?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There were more wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco was moderately unlucky, actually. There were more wizards
      than witches, so when Daphe and Neville actually called Witch one
      of the final rounds, that should have cost them. If we'd kept
      playing long enough, Draco would win as long as he kept calling
      Wizard. If you kept calling Witch one-third of the time, you'd
      slowly lose out, even though Witches are one-third of the cards.
      But in the short term, you can get lucky. The funny thing is, if
      you tell people that the cards are heavily slanted towards Wizards,
      like Hermione pointed out, people still try to guess Witch every
      now and then, which is silly. If you don't know the pattern, it may
      as well be random, so why are you trying to predict something you
      can't possible know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That still sounds like you cheated for this game," said
      Daphne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, imagine Voldemort chasing you. From experience you know
      that people who go down into the dungeons get away ten times out of
      one hundred and the people who go into towers survive five times
      out of one hundred. If you had time to do a full scientific study,
      you could figure out why or how that was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sadly, Voldemort does not agree to help you, he just wants you
      dead. But your first goal is to survive Voldemort … or win the game
      you are playing. So, head to the dungeons. If you have to make a
      decision right away make the best decision you can with the
      information you have. If you want to make a prediction, you can
      tell yourself the hypothesis and what you expect to happen in your
      head. But make the best bet to survive or win the Chocolate Frog.
      Like Draco did. In the short term, you could get unlucky, but it's
      the best you can do, until you come up with a better
      hypothesis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," said Draco, "You do agree that you have to at least
      recognize that a situation is weird, then you take your best shot
      or retreat to figure it out? And that preparation will allow you to
      make good, even great decisions in most situations, when you don't
      have time to sort things out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said as much," said Harry. "Look, my methods aren't perfect.
      They are a tool. They don't guarantee you'll be right they just
      help you be …. less wrong. The point is to examine your
      experiences, and use those tools. Sometimes the best you can do is
      instinct, but instinct is also a trap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That lead to a long discussion about various modes of thinking,
      and Harry said that the real issue, which they didn't have time
      for, was on hypothesis generation, and they'd discuss it at the
      next meeting. Later that night Draco, sucking the last bits of
      chocolate from his hand, opened his diary to the final page.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> – The Better's Oath was formed by
      Bryan Caplan, the full version can be found at EconLog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Recognition Primed Decision Making was in fact studied in the
      80s, but I have no idea how Harry Potter got that information.
      We'll assume his father subscribes to journals. My example and many
      notes are taken from "Sources of Power: How People Make Decisions"
      by Gary Klein. I had the pleasure of meeting Doctor Klein a decade
      ago, although we did not discuss his research.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The experiment that Harry performs (guessing cards) is actually
      published in '96. A. Tversky and W. Edwards (1966). "Information
      versus reward in binary choice." Journal of Experimental
      Psychology, 71, 680-683. See also Y. Schul and R. Mayo 2003,
      "Searching for certainty in an uncertain world." In Journal of
      Behavioral Decision Making, 16:2, 93-106. (I found a reference to
      it on E.Y.'s site)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tversky also collaborated with Daniel Kahneman, whose book
      "Thinking: Fast and Slow" served as a partial inspiration for the
      chapter. T:F&amp;S discusses many of the same biases as listed in
      HPMOR.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
