<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 16: Bold Thinking, Part 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 16: Bold Thinking, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">'You will rarely be caught in a lie your victim wants to
      believe. He would rather make the lie come true than expose you." -
      Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I'm trying to get at," Harry Potter said to the gathered
      Bayesian Conspiracy, located in the potions classroom near
      Slytherin, "is that the fastest course of action is to make the
      boldest prediction possible, then experiment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville asked "What do you mean by bold?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean something simple, something powerful. The old theory of
      planetary motion stated that the Earth stood still and everything
      else moved around it. But that meant planets sometimes changed
      directions. That theory worked, but had lots of convoluted answers
      and math. The newer, bolder theory placed the sun at the center. It
      made predictions that allowed easier calculations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what if that theory had been wrong?" Daphne asked a lot of
      clarifying questions, which Harry appreciated. She'd made a great
      addition to the group for that reason alone. "I mean, that theory
      was correct and happened to be bold, but what if the right theory
      was timid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if you make a bold prediction and are wrong, you tend to
      be wrong <em class="calibre7">quickly</em>," Harry said. "I lost days trying to fine
      tune a prediction last year, when an hour of work would have told
      me I was wrong. In the case of an incorrect bold theory, you
      typically discover a counter example quickly, and then can go back
      and think. It's not that you'll be right every time, but when you
      are wrong you'll gain insight into the problem, and hopefully won't
      waste as much time."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco and Gregory headed up the stairs, towards the offence
      classroom. Draco taught again today, leading the discussion of how
      Ginevra Weasley's Genies had destroyed Nicholas Martin's Manticore
      Army and Zacharias Smith's Spectres. First year Generals had been
      advised to take unused army names and once "Ginny's Genies" had
      formed the other two stuck with the best alliterations they could
      think of that could be considered fearsome. Like Draco feared, the
      battle – such as it was - hadn't been close. He didn't relish
      talking about it for the next hour and a half. Weasley's army had
      faked being dead as had Smith's army. But, unlike Zacharis Smith,
      Ginny had thought ahead and issued a standing order to shoot dead
      enemies again, 'just to be sure.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory had insisted on going with Draco. In theory, to protect
      Draco from another ambush, everyone knew Draco lectured today. In
      practice ...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look," said Gregory, "Montague and Flint are good chasers,
      Bletchley's a solid keeper, if a bit uninspiring, but I just can't
      work with Peregrine. I mean, he's a good flyer, better than Vincent
      even, but I just never know what he's going to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can hardly expect to build up the same rapport in a few
      days. Who is the other chaser?" asked Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's Warrington, but he's rubbish. Won't be good for
      another year, at least. I just don't know what to do with Derrick.
      I realize we've only had five days, but he has the strangest ideas
      about what the beater position entails. Although I suppose it's all
      up in the air this year, isn't it? Two forty-five minute halves?
      Who thinks of these things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They went up another flight of stairs, in the distance they
      heard a crash and Peeves shouting. The first years were probably
      behind them and didn't know the poltergeist's typical ambush
      points. "Well, Gregory, take some comfort that Vincent is
      complaining to Hufflepuffs about their other beater, uh …."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rickett," Gregory supplied. Right, thought Draco, Anthony
      Rickett. He tried to visualize Rickett. Tall for his age, but that
      may just be an early growth spurt. Brown hair, kind of weaselly
      look. The animal, not the family.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, I'm sure that Vincent has spent the last week
      complaining that Rickett isn't a bad guy, but he's no Gregory
      Goyle." The walked past a landing, sunlight streamed through a
      small vertical slit of a window, with a tapestry hanging besides
      it. Draco stopped and examined it, then spun around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is one ugly thing. What are you looking for anyway?" asked
      Gregory. The tapestry depicted a bunch of Trolls and a wizard
      wearing bright pink robes demonstrating <em class="calibre7">en pointe</em> to the
      trolls, who watched attentively, with minimal drool. Draco stood
      facing the other direction, but there was just a blank wall, the
      rare bit of empty space this high up. Normally the walls displayed
      paintings, tapestries, windows, dangerous ledges, or some
      knick-knack. But this hallway had ten solid empty feet, with
      nothing. Draco ran his fingers across the wall, feeling along the
      seams.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could have sworn there was a restroom here last week," said
      Draco. "Right between those suits of armor. I mean, I used it –
      really nice, better than the Prefect's restroom that has the heated
      pool - and I definitely recognize the tapestry," he waved back
      behind him. "I'm sure it was here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't imagine you could forget that," said Gregory, examining
      the background. "This will haunt my dreams, ah! Duck!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco crouched down as several spells flew over his head. He
      glanced to the left and saw the Carrow sisters, Flora and Sheila
      poking around the corner firing spells. Hestia stood in a doorway
      on the right with another older Slytherin girl, Viola Richmond.
      <em class="calibre7">What was it with the Slytherin girls? And didn't anybody aim
      for the chest anymore? Center of mass, hard to dodge. Maybe they
      just had terrible aim</em>. Gregory dove across the hallway, firing
      blindly, and pulled himself behind the suit of armor for cover.
      Draco reached into his cloak and touched the vial of liquid luck,
      then put it back. This didn't seem that desperate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Retreat back around the corner on three," Gregory said and
      pointed his wand down the hallway and counted "one, two,
      <em class="calibre7">Jellyfy.</em>" Draco ran the few steps to the corner and turned
      left into the pack of Slytherin boys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, cra..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory heard Draco's shout, and then the <em class="calibre7">Petrificus
      Totalus</em> and then nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory fired off a few more spells at the now retreating girls
      and looked back at Draco's body, visible from the waist up as he'd
      fallen backwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goyle? This isn't personal. We all like you, Gregory," Marcus
      Flint's voice carried around the hall, "And we just need to teach
      your friend some manners. But you can walk away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't really expect that, do you Marcus?" Gregory shouted,
      then glanced at down the hallway. The ladies were slipping away. He
      didn't bother firing on them, but moved to get cover towards the
      corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not really. But we are teammates and I," the words ended
      with a sickening crunch and some shouts, a <em class="calibre7">stupefy</em>, a
      curse he didn't recognize and Hermione Granger shouting
      <em class="calibre7">Glisseo.</em> There were several more shouts in response
      followed by the sound of tumbling. Gregory ran – no point in
      dodging when the enemy had no line-of-sight – and crouched over
      Draco's body then peeked around the corner. Marcus Flint stood
      doubled over, bleeding from his mouth, lower lip even larger than
      normal and one of his front teeth twisted slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory pulled Draco out of the line of fire and saw Lucian
      Bole, who Gregory had just taken the Beater position from, down on
      his hands and knees but still firing curses at Hermione. Terence
      Higgs, former seeker, cast an <em class="calibre7">Expelliarumus</em> and hit
      Granger squarely with it, her wand flying down the hall. Hermione
      just got up and started running <em class="calibre7">towards</em> Higgs. Gregory hit
      Bole with a <em class="calibre7">Somnium</em> just as Hermione slid into Higg's
      legs, knocking him over like a set of tenpens. They rolled over
      each other along the ground and then she was on him, throwing
      punches into his stomach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boles let out a few grunts and Hermione wrestled his wand away
      from him, barely pausing before leaping up and breaking into a
      graceful run. By this point Marcus had recovered and, spitting out
      his tooth, cast <em class="calibre7">Protego.</em> Gregory's stupefy was well aimed,
      but hit shields. Hermione cast a few <em class="calibre7">Lagann</em>s and Gregory
      followed suit, but Marcus's shields held and he fired a powerful
      <em class="calibre7">Ventus</em> towards Gregory that sent several paintings flying
      off the wall, complaining loudly about students today as they
      clattered to the floor. Gregory ducked back just in time to see
      Hermione swinging through the air, legs around Marcus's neck, then
      her momentum flipped him off his feet just as she released her
      ankles and then landed next to him and simply kicked his wand away
      before hitting him with a <em class="calibre7">stupefy.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've <em class="calibre7">got</em> to be kidding me," Gregory said under his
      breath. He walked over to Draco whose eyes followed his movements.
      Gregory cast <em class="calibre7">finite incatatem.</em> Draco popped up quickly,
      taking in the scene, while Gregory recovered the scattered
      wands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There were a few more on the stairs," Hermione said, "but I
      didn't see them before they slid away. Sorry. I guess it would have
      been useful to know who they were. But better safe than sorry."
      Gregory tossed Hermione's wand to her. "Thanks, Gregory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco walked up to Hermione. "Are you all right? Thanks," he
      said, somewhat bashfully, "for everything." Draco inspected Higgs
      and Flint, both now moaning slightly, then stood up and looked at
      Hermione again. "If you want, I can fix up that bruise so it
      doesn't show until you can get it taken care of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm fine, Draco. It's lucky I was here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Draco, "very lucky."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Gregory in an excited whisper, "there's no way she
      could do that. I couldn't do that move, it requires a good
      <em class="calibre7">decade</em> of martial arts training. That's Asian quality
      Shaolin type stuff. No way Hermione Granger just learns that." They
      were walking back after both offence classes, Draco lecture and the
      second year class. They'd stopped by the tapestry again and Draco
      asked Gregory to walk him through what happened - another
      after-action report, like the one he'd lectured on to the first
      year students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet she did it," Draco said quietly. "Or you imagined
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did not imagine that," Gregory started and Draco just shook
      his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I believe you, she really did it. You saw it, it's true.
      And <em class="calibre7">you are confused</em>." Draco let the words hang in the air
      as they walked down another flight of stairs. "How did her hair
      look? How did she look, while fighting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory considered. "I didn't get a good view, but I'd say
      normal. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said she tumbled on the ground, tackled Higgs and rolled
      and punched him. But she had no dirt or dust on her. Just one
      bruise. Her hair looked perfect, not even mussed, when I looked at
      her. I thought - I don't know - I thought I was infatuated with
      her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm infatuated with her right now, too," Gregory
      interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I get that. I think I still am. But I think it's not just
      infatuation. I think she's got a glamour to keep her hair nice,
      repel dirt, the works. I mean, I can do all that but it's not
      permanent. If I'd gone flying through the air my hair would mess
      up. And she also has a <em class="calibre7">glow</em>. Maybe she's got some other
      spell that makes her graceful. She wasn't sweating, either,
      although the fight ended so fast that doesn't really mean
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory nodded. "Yeah. Yes, that sounds right. And she was
      graceful, like you said. How did you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's why I believe you. When I got hit, did you notice anything
      unusual?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't looking that way. I was covering you, remember? But
      you were awake when you the fight was over. But that spell doesn't
      put you to sleep..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It does if you hit the ground hard enough," said Draco, "but I
      didn't hit at all. Something caught me right before I hit the
      ground, then lowered me. It had to be her, unless we're saying
      there was someone else around. And, I'm not sure but I think she
      caught me with her foot." Draco remembered last night's lesson. "Do
      we have a bold prediction on what's going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked along in silence for three flights of stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, let's just assume that she's become pretty amazing," said
      Gregory, "which we already knew, after Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Assuming Azkaban is true," said Draco, "which now seems
      likely." Gregory nodded. "She was always anti-bully, so maybe she's
      just lurking around to wreck vengeance on them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And not," said Gregory slowly, "following us around because
      Potter asked her to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Invisibly," Draco added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With martial arts skills I don't have after six years of
      training," Gregory said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That she never showed last year," finished Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked back to the dorms in silence.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Horace Slughorn stared over his assembled Slytherin students,
      those who had been marched from the Headmistresses office after
      being caught for attempted bullying. They weren't impressive – even
      ignoring that they'd lost to a second year girl, albeit The Girl
      Who Revived – but he couldn't tolerate the pettiness, the lack of
      ambition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">These weren't ringleaders, the clever rarely got nabbed in the
      first sweep. These, he reflected, were minions. But as he looked
      along the worried faces, Professor Slughorn suspected the
      instigators would hear everything he'd say soon enough. He'd had
      the Headmistress send the bruised and defeated students to his
      potions classroom instead of meeting them in the dungeons, because
      the long walk allowed time to worry. He'd finished brewing a
      particularly nasty draught of Baneberry potion, room smelling
      pungent as if a fire burned rotting flesh that left students
      coughing and eyes watering. It took decades to acclimate to all the
      smells in a potions laboratory, and only the best Potions Masters
      could stomach them all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which didn't make it any more pleasant for him, but he showed no
      sign of distress, unlike his charges.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Flint, m' boy. <em class="calibre7">I'm</em> inclined to overlook this whole
      thing," said Professor Slughorn, as Marcus Flint's face relaxed
      into a look of dumb relief, "since I would hate to lose the
      Quidditch cup as my first year. Oh, that wouldn't do. Wouldn't do
      at all, no matter how they change the rules. And if I suspend you,
      well, I'll have to investigate the rest of the team and and where
      would we be, hmm? Nowhere good." He turned his gaze to the other
      boys and noted, with satisfaction, their watering eyes. No doubt
      caused by the thick musk in the air, but if he needed to send them
      out in public others would assume they'd been crying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still, I can't very well let you off without something. Must
      keep up appearances. Now," said Slughorn, shifting his considerable
      bulk, as the chair creaked plaintively, looking down at Flint,
      Higgs, and Bole, "I find it hard to believe that you have a serious
      grievance against Malfoy. None of you lost your parents. You might
      have a slight against Mr. Goyle, Bole, and Malfoy is a convenient
      excuse. I have my own theory, would you like to hear it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Judging from the nods, Professor Slughorn thought that they
      would.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Given what I've heard about the attack, it seems that the
      Carrow sisters, who do have a reason to feel slighted, are offering
      …. certain incentives, or bounties." As he spoke, Slughorn
      carefully studied their faces and could tell that he was wrong. The
      dawning realization on Marcus Flint's face - the slow reveal that
      he probably could have asked for some favors - spoke volumes. But
      that same realization also meant that Slughorn had effectively
      punished those girls far worse than he could in any official
      capacity. He chuckled, more to himself than to keep up the
      charade.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought as much. I was a young man, myself, and it's a rite
      of passage to allow yourself to be manipulated by some witch. You
      know the old saying, 'You can't fall into her arms without falling
      into her hands.' Ha! But, at some point you must be your own man.
      Why, get a reputation for doling out favors for any witch who just
      smiles at you ... well, you aren't a true Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terrence spoke up "Sir, it's not just..." Slughorn silenced him
      with a stare and a harrumph. He'd get the exact reason later, in
      his own time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure it's not just that, you may very well have legitimate
      complaints. But I expect them to be solved quietly. And I don't
      expect to listen to them myself, not today. If, in a week, a quiet
      week, you have complaints I'll take them up. But for now I want
      peace and quiet in my house. So I think we'll settle for just
      having you clean up this room as part of a detention, instead of
      discussing expulsions. Oh yes, I'm perfectly willing to clean
      house. And I find a more concrete mild threat now will often work
      when a distant but much greater threat doesn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greater threat, sir?" asked Boles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, with Lord Voldemort dead I can only think of three future
      dark lords, and you've managed to annoy them all during the last
      few weeks," said the Professor, easing out of his chair. "Scrub the
      glasswork well, and be sure not to spill any potions on you. It
      will burn through your skin. Give you some raging acne if you sniff
      too much of it, now that I think of it. You all know where
      everything goes, and I daresay it won't take you much more than
      four hours. I'll come check back after dinner." He strolled out the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three?" said Martin, as they glanced among themselves.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three?" said Gregory, sounding surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what Slughorn told them," said Daphne Greengrass, who'd
      heard about the entire incident the day before. The entire dating
      relationship of the upper classes had gone through a period of
      turbulence over the last twenty four hours, including numerous
      slaps, hexes, curses, pleading and breakups, although a few new
      relationships formed as well. The witches gossip network nearly
      collapsed from the strain of keeping up. "Said there were three
      future Dark Lords. I mean, I can see Potter and Draco, no
      offense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None taken," said Draco, with a small bow, where he sat on his
      bed, perusing the latest letter from Mother, "although I think he
      was just trying to convince them to back down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne, sitting in Draco's chair at the desk, nodded. "Well,
      obviously, but that still begs the question as to who the third
      Dark Lord would be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory paced slowly. "Granger? I mean, I can't see it, although
      it would be somewhat great," Draco looked up at him quizzically, "I
      mean, come on. A Dark Gryffindor? With a Phoenix? And she likes us.
      We could do a lot worse, you know," Draco went back to reading his
      letter with a sigh and Daphne just shook her head. "I did say
      <em class="calibre7">somewhat</em> great," Gregory said, morosely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it were me," said Draco, "it would just be a mind game.
      Slughorn didn't mean anyone in particular, he just knew that
      everyone expects there to be one or two, so by saying three he
      makes them all stop and think. Which is probably a novel experience
      for them, but sadly not habit forming. In any case, I can't think
      of another <em class="calibre7">credible</em> Dark Wizard of our generation..."
      Draco's voice trailed off for a second, then picked back up. "I
      mean, certainly we could have one, but nobody seems like a threat
      yet. No, he was just messing with them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sound like you've just convinced yourself," said Daphne.
      "But you haven't convinced me. In any case, I figured you'd want to
      know. Do you have any idea why they targeted you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," said Draco. "As to why, simply because they can.
      They've gotten a few shots in, but not enough to claim victory. Now
      it's more about honour than any reason."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
