<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 2: Social Gatherings, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Social Gatherings, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The door's knocker looked so menacing, so convincingly like a
      Krait poised to strike, that Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres
      unconsciously paused before grabbing it and pounding the door three
      times. He turned to the assembled adults.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It won't be as bad as the Headmistress thinks," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Petunia and Michael exchanged worried glances on the doorstep of
      Malfoy Manor. As Muggles, Harry had told them they wouldn't
      normally be able to see Malfoy Manor, much less approach it. But
      the formal invitation in their hands, elegantly lettered and
      addressed, tamed the wards. Professor McGonagall had offered to
      join them; Harry had declined. Michael thought the house looked
      like the Haunted Mansion - black structures stacked hodge-podge on
      top of each other with no right angles between walls, the only
      rectangle being the main door and the only squares being a few
      windows. Petunia, looking at it, just shuddered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael Evans-Verres smiled nervously. His son had matured over
      the last year, but his social skills still trailed behind other
      children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a second, Hermione spoke up. "Maybe they didn't hear. It's
      a big house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beside her, Leo Granger harrumphed slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure this is such a good idea," he said for the fourth
      time. Hermione kept her mouth shut and shifted her backpack
      nervously. <em class="calibre7">Your parents are allowed to worry because you
      died.</em> Things hadn't been awkward when she came back; her
      parents were too surprised and grateful. They'd gotten awkward
      later, after a few days. Then they'd noticed her teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached for the knocker again as the door flew open.
      Everyone started to say hello, but only one person finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honored guests, come in! Come in!" said the small creature
      standing in front of them, dressed in what looked like a burlap
      sack. His large eyes beamed at the entourage; long ears flopped as
      he nodded enthusiastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Roberta recovered first. "We brought some wine...," she started
      to say but the creature's eyes, already cartoonish, grew wider and
      she lost her nerve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brought wine! They dare ..." it hissed, then paused with a look
      of horror "Mustn't insult guests! Bad Dobby! Bad Dobby!" The elf
      turned and pounded his face into the door frame with surprising
      force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is that?" said Michael Evans-Verres, turning to the
      children. Hermione was trying to persuade the elf to stop in
      slightly frantic tones, when Harry answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a house elf. We have them at Hogwarts, but I've never seen
      one act like this." He ignored a particularly sickening crunch as
      Dobby's head rebounded off the door frame. Harry heard Draco
      shouting "Dobby! Back to the kitchen!" and the elf disappeared with
      a <em class="calibre7">whampf</em> right before his head impacted the doorway. There
      was a sound of bowls crashing, followed by one bowl ringing as it
      rolled slowly to a stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rushed out, smiling. "I'm sorry. Please, come in." Draco
      bowed low.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum, Dad" said Harry. "This is Draco Malfoy. Draco, my parents
      Michael Evans-Verres and Petunia Verres-Evans." Michael shook hands
      with the boy, who stood slightly taller than Harry, and examined
      him. Draco had slicked back blonde hair a few brushes shy of
      perfection. He wore simple black robes and a slightly off-center
      cape, clasped with a silver snake. There were a few specks of dust
      on his cape, but the boy radiated calmness and poise more than any
      child he'd ever met.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Except Hermione Granger,</em> Michael thought. <em class="calibre7">Must be a
      magical thing.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we early, Draco?" asked Petunia, shaking his hand. Michael
      glanced at his watch, 7:01pm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's my fault" said Draco smoothly. "I didn't think to tell
      Harry about it. You're still on Hogwarts time, aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't Hogwarts in the same time zone?" asked Roberta.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Muggles control zones of time?</em> Draco thought to
      himself, horrified for a brief second before he realized it was
      just an expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trains" muttered Michael to Harry, who nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Petunia looked at them and said "What do trains have to do with
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Trains</em>, as Michael and Harry knew, led the impetus
      behind formalizing time. To be sure, ships had led the way, but
      travel by ship was measured in weeks, not days or hours. Before
      trains, every village and every town had its main clock with no
      coordination between towns required. Only with industrialization,
      with the need to precisely coordinate movement of items across vast
      distances, did people make agreements when noon (or a dinner party)
      should occur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So it made sense that magicians, who had never industrialized,
      wouldn't have agreed on precise standards for time across multiple
      locations. No spells said "Start at 11:30," they all referred to
      noon, sunset, midnight, and other times with specific physical
      meanings. <em class="calibre7">Actually,</em> thought Harry, <em class="calibre7">they probably do
      have agreements, but I've never had an exact appointment scheduled
      outside of Hogwarts.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, these are my parents the Doctors Leo and Roberta
      Granger. Mum, Dad, This is Draco Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was swishing of robes down the hallway as a young, smiling
      woman came forward. "Draco, do introduce me to your friends and
      their parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course Mother." Introductions were made all around. Draco
      had warned Mother that there would be misunderstandings and to just
      assume any social blunder was made in ignorance instead of malice,
      so he didn't mention the gifts. But there were limits, so after
      handshakes were made, and Draco had accepted the various bottles of
      wine, deserts, and flowers and set them in the dining room table,
      he continued the conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were just discussing, Mother, that Muggle time doesn't work
      <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> like our time." Roberta Granger glanced around the
      room and let out a soft moan as she saw a grandfather clock at
      6:50.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lily never mentioned anything like this" said Petunia.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes, Draco said you are Lily's sister." Narcissa said,
      offering seats to everyone. "I must admit I don't see the
      resemblance. You are lovely, like she was, but in a different way….
      Lily reminded me of spring, but you seem more like a northern
      summer." Draco slowly released his breath. Mother would be fine.
      Father had always said Mother possessed a natural social grace; but
      he'd been worried for the first few weeks. Narcissa's prior
      awkwardness had been the pain of discovering her baby grown and
      husband dead. Now Draco felt confident that Mother would
      ever-so-gently steer the conversation towards common ground. She'd
      already mentioned a mutual acquaintance with Harry's mother
      although Merlin knew how she'd find <em class="calibre7">anything</em> in common
      with Hermione's parents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Dobby and the other elves brought out the food, Narcissa put
      the empty wine goblet down. "This is <em class="calibre7">surprisingly</em> good
      wine, Roberta" <em class="calibre7">And there it is</em>, thought Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, thank you. I don't have much experience, but the sommelier
      recommended it..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do wizards use magic to make wine?" asked Harry. "I know we
      can't transfigure it, but is there anything in Herbology about
      helping grapes grow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why can't you Transfigure it?" whispered Leo quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All Herbology lessons dealt with magical plants, but that could
      just mean it isn't taught at schools." Narcissa said, reflecting on
      what she knew about Muggles. "It wouldn't be an appropriate subject
      for children, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It will change back later <em class="calibre7">after you drink it</em>, Dad"
      whispered Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, then in that case," said Harry's father, "Muggle wine is
      probably, on average, about as good as Wizard wine. And since there
      are so many more Muggle wine makers..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad, wizards could enchant the soil and tightly control the
      environment, not even considering..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Leo blanched "So even simple magic is dangerous?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do many Muggles make wine?" asked Narcissa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think that many do," said Roberta, "but Hermione says
      there just aren't that many wizards and witches."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, even if you assume that the average wizard wine is
      better, the sample space and standard deviation practically ensures
      that the best wines will be ours." said Michael.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad," Hermione whispered, "Transfiguration the most complicated
      magic. Can we talk about this later?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's true," said Draco, "the Muggle world is
      <em class="calibre7">surprising</em>. Muggles aren't like plays depict them." His
      London excursions confirmed that. <em class="calibre7">Did Harry set this up. Is he
      investigating mother's beliefs, to see if she's ... reformed?</em>
      It would make sense. Mother <em class="calibre7">had</em> married a prominent Death
      Eater, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ours?" Harry raised an eyebrow. He'd practiced for a year
      before he could just raise one. "You sound like a football fan.
      It's not a competition." Petunia glared at the men in her family,
      to no avail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can imagine why we worry, Hermione..." Leo said as everyone
      took their seats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael, who had shown Harry literature on sports fan
      psychology, ignored the barb. "I agree. That's why I'm pointing out
      trade opportunities. Both worlds' standards of living could rise
      dramatically..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I've thought of that, but we have to ease into it.
      Remember Dobby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a lovely plate of food, Narcissa," said Petunia
      warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Mother, the lamb chop looks delicious." Draco piped in
      cheerily as he cut a small piece off, trying to force all the
      conversations back to a single topic. Draco didn't particularly
      care for lamb, but he'd seen it on menus posted outside high end
      muggle restaurants, so he'd suggested it instead of the Dragon
      Tartare Father served. <em class="calibre7">All things considered, this is going
      well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wine, Time Zones, <em class="calibre7">amusing</em> differences in etiquette, and
      other conversation topics flowed with the wine. Narcissa's offer to
      show Malfoy Manor was, of course, politely accepted and so the
      parents were gone when the house elves started removing the plates
      and cleaning up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, can I ask Dobby some questions?" asked Hermione. A look
      of horror crossed Dobby's face but he continued picking up dishes,
      each one disappearing with a small poof as he grabbed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said Draco. "Dobby," he said firmly. Dobby sighed
      and turned around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby would be happy to answer," he said morosely. He stood
      waiting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you hurt yourself, Dobby?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby must be punished! For insulting guests!" Dobby looked
      confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who made that rule?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby … Dobby doesn't know. It's always been that rule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, they are house elves" said Draco. "It's what they do.
      They enjoy it." Harry shot Draco a look. "Oh come on, they
      <em class="calibre7">do.</em> I've only ever heard Dobby complain about one
      thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby never complains, young master! Oooh, bad Dobby!" Dobby
      rushed towards a table leg. Draco snapped his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby, stop." Draco's voice was calm. "Tell them your
      complaint. It's fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby, eyes downcast, shrank into himself, then flashed an
      apologetic look to Draco. "Dobby likes Young Master and Mistress.
      But Old Master, when Mistress was gone … Old Master ..." Dobby
      sputtered, looked longingly at the table leg, then lowered his
      voice to a hiss, "... forbade us ..." Dobby sobbed a few breaths,
      "from cleaning Mistresses Room!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's ok, Dobby. Things are better. The room is nice and clean
      now, isn't it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby, sniffing, wiped his noise on his sleeve. "Oh yes,
      Master!" Draco waved his hand back to the table and Dobby, with a
      quick bow, went back to removing the silverware.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There. You see?" said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even Harry smiled. "Whoever made them was evil, but ..." he
      shrugged. "They seem happy." He turned to Draco, "She was going on
      about liberating House Elves all summer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco smiled. "First Azkaban. Then … Kitchens Everywhere!"
      Hermione frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S.P.H.E.W. – <em class="calibre7">The Society for the Protection of House Elf
      Workers</em>?" said the Boy-Who-Lived and Draco started
      laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not funny" she fumed. Draco kept laughing. She shook her
      head, hair flowing perfectly back and forth "I thought we were here
      to discuss lesson plans." Draco's chuckling slowed. Harry wiped his
      eye. Hermione reach into her backpack and pulled eight lengthy
      scrolls and some loose papers which she passed to Draco. "These
      scrolls are my notes." She glared at Harry. "If <em class="calibre7">you</em> have
      anything to add..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco took them carefully, setting some on the clean table to
      get the rest. "The papers aren't yours, Harry?" Draco knew Muggles
      preferred loose paper to scrolls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Quirrel's lesson plan for first years" said Harry
      quietly. "They found them in his things." Draco gasped, while Harry
      continued. "It's not a spellbook. It's just notes on what he
      thought was appropriate for first years, which spells to teach,
      which lessons to teach after typical mistakes, rough drafts of
      speeches. It won't make sense to anyone who hasn't had the course,
      these aren't notes, more like …. reminders." <em class="calibre7">And Voldemort
      practicing thinking like David Monroe pretending to be
      Quirrell</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow. He had notes for each year?" Harry nodded as Draco glanced
      through the papers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco reluctantly set the notes aside. He'd read later, when
      there were no guests. "I don't know why you need me for this." He
      looked at Harry, but it was Hermione who spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's an awful lot of stories going around. Awful rumours.
      It's going to be awkward for everyone. I wasn't around but I know
      you worked quite hard. After I..." Hermione couldn't make eye
      contact. "We were all Generals, fair and square. You deserve this
      is much as we do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. "I'll look at your notes later and send an owl
      with thoughts." There was no rush, it was only July. After a pause
      he asked "Can a <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em> find someone hidden?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head. "I don't think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued "That makes sense, otherwise Aurors could always
      track people down." He paused, "Now that you mention it, I wonder
      how they find people who want to be found..." he trailed off, lost
      in thought. "Typically people tell them where to look..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who are you looking for?" Hermione asked. Harry was barely
      paying attention. Draco shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape." He paused for a second, but when there was no question
      he continued. "Harry and I are … <em class="calibre7">reforming</em> Slytherin."
      Hermione's eyes widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, eyes still closed, quietly said "He'd approve, but he
      won't come back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. "This is a bad time. So many of us lost parents. I
      know most of the families, but I don't know them well. Without
      Father … there's going to be a power struggle. Struggles. Not just
      adults. And I ..." he shrugged. "I could use the information he
      has. He'd know who was sympathetic. He'd know when I'd be wasting
      my time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's not fair to say this conversation caused a war to stir
      inside of Hermione. But it caused a small skirmish. By now she'd
      recovered and asked "What about Professor Slughorn?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shook his head. "Outside the school, yes. Inside? He knows
      less than I do. By all accounts he's fairly aloof, except for his
      favorites. He may know more about the families, but he hasn't even
      met most of the students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his eyes. "I'll try to send a message to Snape. I
      can take out advertisements but I don't think..." he trailed off as
      the adults came galoomphing down the stairs. Narcissa was staring
      at him and she said "Oh, Draco ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">and Harry felt the dagger in his head, no fire, pain, just a
      careful <em class="calibre7">opening</em> of his thoughts and memories. <em class="calibre7">My son
      is my heart …</em> the dagger paused briefly … <em class="calibre7">Allies? Allies!
      …</em> now moving again <em class="calibre7">… I want to see if you can learn the
      Patronus Charm ….</em> thoughts flashed quickly as Harry set
      defenses around his private life <em class="calibre7">My hand wasn't working</em> …
      Harry realized that he didn't need to shield everything, Narcissa
      wasn't looking for details about Harry, except as they related to
      Draco … <em class="calibre7">does the rest of that matter, my son? No, father. ….
      Dumbledore burned her to death.</em> As quickly and quietly as it
      entered, the knife left</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...could you please have Dobby bring desserts? I assume you
      kids want some as well" said Narcissa, smiling at them all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter piped up "Yes, please!" sounding like a normal
      eleven year old boy for the first time all evening.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's note (5/5) – Thank you all for the kind words, but here
      and on reddit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Update (5/6) - Typo update, and I had some confused writing
      (I'll blame last minute edits). I've updated Narcissa's comment on
      wine and Draco's thoughts starting with "It's true."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
