<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 21: October, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21: October</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"When paying for information, you will frequently
      overpay.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is unavoidable, and do not fret about it (unless
      tricked).</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Consider it a balance for the times a crucial fragment falls
      into your lap because the seller is unaware of its
      value.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">After all, If you knew how much to pay, you wouldn't be
      buying."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, the trick to it is to flick your wand right as you..."
      Blaise Zabini froze when Harry Potter walked into the second year
      boys' room. Theodore Nott looked over his shoulder, following
      Blaise's eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry asked "Theodore. Am I interrupting? I'd like to talk to
      General Zabini."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can finish later," Theodore said. "It's no problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," said Harry. "Do you mind if we walk? I have to go
      somewhere and this way we won't be disturbed..." Blaise stood up,
      smoothing out his robes, and walked beside Harry. They quickly went
      through the common room, past the prefect's room, and into the
      dungeons. All through the trip Potter asked his opinion about last
      weekend's battle. The fourth year armies had fought on the roof of
      Hogwarts, but hadn't been allowed any brooms. Blaise recognized it
      as small talk, which did seem like Potter's typical style.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, General," said Harry, "What I <em class="calibre7">really</em> wanted to
      talk about is a small conspiracy I'd like you to join. We're
      disguised as a study group. I suppose we're actually studying
      something." They crossed the creaking bridge over the main stream,
      air brackish but not unpleasant. Harry quieted as they passed three
      first years returning from classes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you study?" Blaise asked. His brown eyes warily darting
      around. Potter was Draco's friend and had a reputation narrowly
      outrunning the chaos which followed him constantly around, but this
      didn't feel like a trap. Still, you couldn't be too careful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Decision making. Science. Problem solving. How to think and how
      to avoid mistakes. 'Rationality' is the technical term." They
      passed the Bloody Baron, who was talking to several of the
      paintings lining the Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise considered for twenty-five steps. "That sounds useful.
      What's the catch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are two. First, You have to learn to admit mistakes. That
      sounds easy, but it's surprisingly hard. One conspirator likened it
      to a 'Dark Ritual,' you sacrifice the ability to lie to yourself.
      Lots of people can't do that, and they suffer mental anguish,"
      Harry paused then took a lighter tone, "I prefer to think of it as
      growing pains."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had exited Slytherin proper and stepped into the common
      dungeons. They'd diverted from the stone stairs that led up into
      Hogwarts, and went down a Hallway that glowed slightly with no
      apparent lights. Blaise recognized the area, Potions was here, but
      they passed that and went further down the hall, footsteps making
      small squeeking sounds as their damp footprints connected with the
      stone. Harry Potter stopped in front of a door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for the second catch." Harry opened the door and walked into
      the classroom, Blaise following.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy," Blaise said flatly, as Draco looked up from the desk,
      closing a small black book he'd apparently been writing in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't dismiss it out of hand," said Harry, "Draco suggested
      inviting you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I can be your lackey?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't have to invite you," said Draco harshly, "and lackeys
      are easy. I put your name up because you are going to be absolutely
      slaughtered in the battles if you fall too far behind. It's too
      useful. You have some weaknesses, and you can usually work around
      them, but Neville's joined and Potter's teaching his special
      <em class="calibre7">creativity</em>. That's a serious challenge, if Neville learns
      first. You have potential and this would help," Draco's voice held
      a hint of anger, "but if you are willing to throw an advantage away
      just because I'm involved..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are in Chaos now. Why help Basilisk?" Blaise sounded
      incredulous, but he sat down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't expect you to believe me, but Basilisk is the de
      facto Slytherin army and a poor showing looks bad. Not on me
      personally, but on everyone else. I'm not going to go easy on you
      if we meet on the field. But all of our armies aren't doing well.
      It would be nice to have one that everyone could rally behind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And of course you are trying to save our House," said
      Blaise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched. He'd expressed worry, but Draco had been right
      that inviting Blaise could help Slytherin, even if he probably
      wasn't ready. Draco needed the ally, this would be Draco's olive
      branch. Harry wanted to jump in and argue this, but Draco had asked
      for his silence unless things looked hopeless. This might have
      normally presented a problem - keeping quiet wasn't Harry's strong
      suit - but some things Draco said tickled a memory, one that Harry
      couldn't quite place ...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. I have my plots," Draco was saying, "I've been fairly open
      about them. Look, I know you think it's not clever to reveal too
      much to others, and you think I'm making the same mistake. Maybe I
      am. I look confident on the outside, but sometimes I worry. Did
      Harry tell you about the cost of admitting you are wrong? It's a
      real cost, and ... well, maybe it cost me some confidence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's expression showed confusion, as he tried to remember why
      this seemed so familiar. It wasn't what Draco was saying, more like
      how he said it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco saw Harry, but focused on Blaise who still had arms
      crossed in front of his body. Not a good sign, but he hadn't left
      yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know much about me," said Blaise. "You don't know
      what it's like, how I grew up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Draco softly, "I just lost my Father recently. But I
      never excluded you. Not deliberately. Look, at the beginning of
      last year we were all scrabbling and jockeying. I had a head start.
      It's not fair, but you can't expect me to give up advantages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you can't expect me to not resent that," said Blaise. "You
      ignored me, didn't even treat me like a rival."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I admit I've been distracted. In my defense, I was trying
      to keep up with the Boy-Who-Lived and the Girl-Who-Revived," Draco
      held up his hands, "although no, we didn't know that at the time. I
      was almost murdered! Nobody could compete with that. And, I swear
      I'll deny this if you ever say it, you are tough to read, Zabini.
      One day you act shy, lost in your own thoughts, and keep to
      yourself. The next day you're the life of the party. Most people I
      can get easily," Draco snapped his fingers, then shrugged. "But
      you...so yes, I do want your help in saving Slytherin and even just
      figuring out who is attacking me, but that's not a prerequisite.
      You are in for this if you want it. I'll even try to teach you the
      <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em> spell, no strings attached. Although some people
      just can't learn it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise considered this, "Who else is in this group?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you join you'll know. But if you do join and rat us out to
      the others, then you've made an enemy, and not just us." Draco
      sounded firm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise unfolded his arms. "No strings attached?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Robert Jugson sat down next to Draco at the breakfast table.
      There was plenty of space, just Goyle, Greengrass, and Potter at
      this end of the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pass the croissants, please." Draco simply passed them across,
      then slid a small jar of strawberry jam along with it. Potter and
      Goyle were discussing the Slytherin Quiddich team's chances. Well,
      Goyle was talking about it and Potter merely asking a few
      questions. Robert Jugson ignored the looks from the other end of
      the table, where the upperclass students normally sat. Draco
      finished another piece of cantaloupe and took a sip of milk,
      washing away the fruit's sweetness, not rushing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been wondering, Mr. Jugson," Draco said, putting down his
      glass, "when do older students make career decisions? Goyle has his
      bright future as a professional Quidditch player, but what about
      the rest of us? How does it work, exactly? I mean, you graduate in
      the Spring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Robert finished chewing on his croissant, then swallowed
      noisily. "I've been thinking about taking a job at Borgin and
      Burkes, I'd talked with pop about that ... earlier. It isn't
      difficult, they are family friends. But now it seems pointless. I'm
      going to spend a century showing wares to customers? It would be
      one thing if I owned the store. I've been talking to Professor
      Slughorn, my Potions grades are OK so he might be able to get me an
      apprenticeship at an Apothecary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you enjoy Potions," asked Gregory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really. But at least I'd be making something. Beats
      selling. In any case, Draco, I don't see that you have to worry.
      Your family has money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not as much as we did, and a lot of it will be gone by the time
      I graduate. Best for me to start thinking of it now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was thinking about other opportunities.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat up with a start. He'd been asleep, face down. The room
      wasn't too dark, the full moon had already risen and he could read
      the letter he'd started, sitting by the desk next to his closed
      diary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Mum,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Of course your happiness is important to me - I do not think
      it is too soon - but I've already explained how precarious my
      position is and surely there are others</em> ...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco crumpled the letter, he could never send that. He leaned
      down and picked his wand off the floor. What time was it? He
      groaned to himself, <em class="calibre7">Don't overexert, you need some rest</em>
      and crawled into bed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, is luck real? What's the scientific perspective?"
      Gregory said, not looking up from his game of (muggle) chess with
      Draco. Harry had ordered a Muggle set. Draco's pieces protested
      mightily at the thought of not using their full skills and had
      mutinied at the thought of obediently following orders. Draco and
      Gregory's first game where they physically moved the pieces
      resulted in a dozen small cuts and bites and after the Silver Queen
      collapsed in a few-blown tantrum they'd just given up and asked
      Harry for a set.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well. It's complicated," said Harry. "Variance is real. You
      have streaks of good events and bad events, however you define good
      and bad. Most people notice some of those streaks and forget the
      rest or the non-streaky balancing luck. So, from a strictly math
      point of view, luck just is." Harry paused. "Actually, being lucky
      is a psychological trait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can that be?" asked Draco, game forgotten for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They did studies on people who considered themselves lucky and
      those who thought they were cursed with bad luck. When it came to
      random chance - rolling dice or whatever - there was no difference.
      Random is random. Then they did <em class="calibre7">other</em> tests, and in one of
      them the researchers handed each subject a newspaper and asked them
      to count the pictures. The lucky people got it much faster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could they possibly do that?" said Gregory. Draco realized
      another nice benefit of muggle chess is that the pieces didn't
      grumble when you ignored them or took too long to move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of the headlines said 'There are 37 pictures.' The answer
      was literally printed right there on the second page. The people
      who felt lucky were really just more attentive to non-traditional
      opportunities. Both groups had the same random things happen, but
      the 'lucky' noticed good things that happened to them. At least,
      that's the theory. The researchers built in a short cut, but the
      lucky people tended to notice it more The 'unlucky' people plodded
      along and counted the pictures, so focused on what they were
      <em class="calibre7">supposed</em> to do that they never noticed the
      opportunity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which means you can train yourself to be lucky, in a way," said
      Gregory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "That's what we've been doing. Learning how to
      think means learning to take advantage of unexpected
      situations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, grumbling, handed Gregory a Knut. Gregory chuckled and
      made his next move.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael MacNair stood in the depths of the dungeon, looking
      around at the robed figures. He put his hands on his hips,
      exasperated. "Look, I didn't care one way or the other before.
      Draco's a twerp, but our twerp. In case you didn't notice, Salazer
      practically invented arrogant and snooty. If anything, we need
      Malfoy as a bulwark against Potter, at least until Zabini comes
      around. I almost turned you into Professor Slughorn, and collected
      the bounty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But then everyone would think you were Malfoy's puppet, or
      scared," said Flora Carrow, sneering. "But we don't care why you're
      here, as long as you are now. Isn't that right?" The other six
      robes nodded. "We should attack him soon," came Hestia's voice,
      beside Flora.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Michael, "not now. We'd be expelled." The others
      gasped, apparently willing to risk grievous injury over expulsion,
      but he just continued. "I'm not just making this up, Slughorn told
      me himself at dinner the other night that he'd expel anyone foolish
      enough to get caught messing with Malfoy. He was very emphatic
      about that, <em class="calibre7">foolish enough to get caught."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another robe chimed in, voice husky and muffled by a spell, "We
      shouldn't hesitate. You can see him, making more and more allies
      every day. And not just the younger students..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael cut off husky voice. "If we wait just a few weeks, I
      think we'll have an opportunity, and his allies won't matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The robes crowded in to listen.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco went flying through the air, then landed with an
      <em class="calibre7">oomph</em> onto the soft grass. He rolled onto his stomach,
      robes smudged green and brown, and pulled himself onto his knees,
      slamming his fist angrily into the grass and taking in deep steady
      breaths.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You expect too much," Vince said calmly, with no hint of
      reproach. "We've been training for years. You've only been
      practicing a few weeks. Give it time. Your stamina is getting
      better, too." They watched Gregory instruct Neville and Harry.
      "They aren't doing any better than you," he said in low tones, "and
      imagine how Gregory and I feel, seeing what you can do with a wand.
      A head start is a big deal. Mastery takes time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory was now sparring with the other two, and even Draco
      could see they didn't stand a chance, wouldn't stand a chance. But
      they had gotten better. Neville looked surprisingly comfortable,
      sparring, and Draco heard him singing "doom doom doom" quietly,
      before looking up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Neville said, dropping his guard, "The doom song is the
      bad guy's music!" Gregory chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it's catchy," retorted Harry, launching an attack that
      Gregory parried easily.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry came up from out of his trunk while they were doing
      homework. Draco and Gregory had agreed that Harry's habit of
      disappearing down there for hours on end was disconcerting, even
      though it made sense. He was carrying two books. Draco glanced at
      the spine of the top book and read off the title. <em class="calibre7">Influence:
      The Psychology of Persuasion.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, you did well with Blaise the other night," Harry
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory glanced over at Harry, then went back to the letter he
      was writing his mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sound surprised?" Draco's voice said, dripping with
      sarcastic hurt. "Seriously Harry, the trick with Blaise is to get
      angry with him, just a little. That let's him know that he's worth
      my time, that he's important. And he <em class="calibre7">is</em>, just not as much
      as he hopes. Still, if he'd get over his inferiority complex from
      last year and those issues with his mother he could do well." Draco
      had gotten up and started pacing, as he normally did whenever he
      wasn't writing. Draco worried he spent too much time sitting down,
      and needed to stretch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You say <em class="calibre7">the trick</em> like you used only one," said Harry,
      and now Gregory put down his quill and slid his chair around,
      interested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A conversation is like a sword fight," said Gregory, "even I
      know that. How long were you talking? Of course you'd have lots to
      discuss."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Harry, dropping one book on his bed and flipping
      through the hardcover, "I meant technique. It's like you were
      cold-reading Blaise, I know it's in here somewhere." He kept
      flipping through pages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cold reading?" Gregory asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trying to get someone to believe you know a lot about them when
      you've never met them. Tricking them into telling you stuff and
      making them think you've said it first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Draco already knows Blaise," Gregory protested. "Why would
      he need to do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. "Of course I know all about Blaise. As for
      techniques? Well, let's see. I empathized with him, I showed some
      weakness but not too much. Admitting that I wore a mask and wasn't
      as confident as I looked. That let him view us as similar, so more
      empathy although strictly speaking that's a separate technique.
      Finding connections between us, points of similarity. Although
      Blaise brought up the fact that we're both Fatherless first. Let's
      see ... I appealed to his vanity. I didn't try to hide the fact
      that I stood to gain something from this. I threatened him if he
      revealed us which treated him as an equal. What else ... I maybe
      garnered sympathy with almost being murdered, though I doubt that
      worked. And standard compliments."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped flipping his book pages. "Standard compliments?
      <em class="calibre7">Standard</em>? I found it. Have you ever heard of the Forer
      Effect? Or P.T. Barnum?" Draco and Gregory both shook their heads.
      "I suppose not. Is there a Wizard book you learned this from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shrugged, he'd stopped pacing and stretched out his arms
      above him, pulling them back behind his head, and his spine made a
      slight crack. "Ah! Better. No, just tutors and Father. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Forer demonstrated that people would believe you possessed deep
      insight into their personalities if you just gave vague, slightly
      contradictory compliments. You know, stuff like 'Sometimes you feel
      shy and sometimes you feel outgoing.' You don't say how often, but
      everyone feels shy sometimes and outgoing other times. Even the
      biggest introverts and extroverts, even if they don't act on it.
      You said <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> that to Blaise and that's a <em class="calibre7">standard
      compliment</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thrust the book underneath Draco's nose, pointed to
      Forer's list. Draco read it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't use the one about sexuality for another few years. I
      assume Forer was older when he made this? And I wouldn't dare call
      Zabini's expectations unrealistic, given the circumstances,
      although they are. He's no Dark Wizard, whatever he thinks. He's
      not even a Minister of Magic - although I suppose if he works hard
      and stays useful - and I doubt Blaise is aiming lower than that.
      Good list, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He passed the book over to Gregory, while Harry spoke up, voice
      rising dramatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Practically <em class="calibre7">everything</em> you said to him was on this
      list! You used five of these compliments directly. You implied at
      least two … no three more! Now that I think about it, you used one
      on yourself, which would create empathy. I'd read this before and I
      still couldn't remember exactly what struck me as odd until I read
      it again. How do you know all that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People skills," Draco said in a mocking tone. He'd always
      wanted to throw that line back into Harry's face, and now seemed
      like a good time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good list," Gregory agreed, handing Harry the book back and
      returning to his homework.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you ever notice," said Ginny as she walked out of the first
      year lecture, passing General Malfoy in the rush to leave class,
      "that the train ride and first day of school seemed to last
      forever, but then time just started flying?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it does," said Luna airily, "It always does that. The
      calendar shows all days as equal squares, but that's just a
      conspiracy perpetrated by gnomes and airlines. Some days are much
      much longer than others, of course. Why, some days can be longer
      than entire months."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In her office, Minerva McGonnagal dropped what she was doing and
      ran over to inspect her strange semi-cylinder, which had suddenly
      made <em class="calibre7">that noise</em> again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco walked around Peverell, this time in the recovery lounge.
      He watched as several wizards who'd just taken the cure woke up and
      went to one of the full length mirrors to examine their recovered
      youth. They gasped, jumped up and down, shouted and laughed as they
      examined themselves. Several Aurors, including Li, watched as
      orderlies brought in still unconscious patients into the newly
      emptied beds. People didn't need long to recover from the
      treatment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor Moody appeared through the doorway from the visitor
      area, passing one of the exiting patients and growling as he
      spotted Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco did a double-take, recognizing the stance Harry used that
      morning in the dungeons after Draco's abduction. Moody held his
      wand up high, near eye level. Just like Harry had. Mad-Eye spun
      around on his heel, taking in the full room, then barked 'Boy!' as
      he finished the circle. Draco jumped despite himself, then calmed
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't like these tests," said the grizzled Auror, "and it's not
      like you lot are going to think of something I've forgotten."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was inclined to agree, but simply said "Good morning,
      sir," as politely as possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you want to do something useful for me," said Moody, "you
      can just tell me about your cane." Draco started to answer,
      sneering, when he felt the colors of the world invert, like the
      room had turned to black with only white outlines. A second later,
      it snapped back to normal. "That's what I thought," said Moody
      stomping off even as Draco started yelling after him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How dare you!" Draco said, not moving. "Students aren't to be
      abused by wizards who imagine themselves as warriors of justice
      ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This isn't Hogwarts, lad. And quiet, or I'll turn you into a
      ferret," he said, stomping off. Draco, still spluttering, turned to
      an appalled Auror Li, who just shrugged.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, he read my mind! We've got to do something about it!
      That's not right, you more than anyone must see that." Draco's
      voice, normally so calm, seemed strained, which made sense. A
      Malfoy must value secrets more highly than almost anyone, and to
      have them stolen...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat on his trunk, reading, a concerned look on his face.
      He'd already heard Alastor's report about the cane. Draco could
      disappear with it, could make the cane seemingly come to life and -
      most intriguingly - summon it. And Draco hadn't been lying earlier
      to Harry, Draco was still investigating the rest of the powers.
      Alastor had wanted to investigate more, to dig deeper into Draco's
      mind. He'd said there was "something strange about that's boy's
      mind," but he'd followed Harry's instructions and only looked for
      information about the cane. <em class="calibre7">Well, that's what he told me, at
      least.</em> Moody had asked to investigate further, but Harry had
      said no, sick at having to have checked in the first place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now he had to mollify Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you expect me to do about it," Harry asked plaintively.
      "I mean, he's technically correct. You were at the hospital, not on
      school grounds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not a fool, Harry. I know you can do something. You
      <em class="calibre7">consult on security,</em> so he must listen to you, whether he
      likes it or not. And you aren't in second year classes, or even
      third or fourth. I've asked around. And if you aren't in classes
      you've got pull with the Headmistress. <em class="calibre7">I don't mind this, I
      don't care about your secrets, I just want you to use your
      power!</em> You and Hermione are both Heads of a Noble House. You
      could go in front of the Wizengamot and demand redress. I could do
      it, too, but it would take longer and"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need him," said Harry, face flushed. "I wish I didn't, he's
      got a bad reputation, but you don't hire veelas to run security.
      You hire cranky old ex-Aurors who'd just as soon as invade your
      privacy as kill you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked at Harry, "Well, I'm not going back there then.
      Apparently I'll just use my extra time to study for my O.W.L.S. and
      go in front of the Wizengamot myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I will not go around provoking strong and vicious
      enemies</em>," Harry said in his best imitation of Professor
      Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did I provoke him?" screeched Draco. "He's been after my
      family for years, well before Voldemort came along."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And your family did nothing to draw his attention? Sorry,
      that's not fair to you," said Harry. "But I'll talk to him, get him
      to back down."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - The opening quote is based on a
      quote from economist (and youngest winner of the Nobel Prize in
      economics) Kenneth Arrow. "The value of information is frequently
      not known in any meaningful sense to the buyer; if, indeed, he knew
      enough to measure the value of the information, he would know the
      information itself." This is similar to puzzles where knowing that
      a solution exists (or that another party has solved it), leads to
      the correct solution.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
