<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 22: Reflections, Part 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 22: Reflections, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Father, if Voldemort was so powerful, why did he need any
      Death Eaters?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"He lacked the patience for administration. Also, he needed
      an audience to truly enjoy himself."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">- Conversation between Draco and Lucius Malfoy, circa 1989</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paced back and forth, staring at the blank wall. It had
      been a risk, ditching Gregory, but the entire castle was out
      celebrating Harry Potter Day – except for Harry himself, who had
      disappeared into his chest after breakfast – so Draco felt safe
      from ambush. And in any case, he had his liquid luck and wand out,
      he'd simply stun anyone he saw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco paced back and forth, staring at the featureless wall.
      Harry told them to make bold predictions. Draco had decided to make
      the boldest one he could – <em class="calibre7">this room appeared in response to
      student's desires, and fulfill them … somehow.</em> You had to
      really need it, not just find it convenient. There was no reason
      for this to be true, or at least for this prediction to be any more
      true than some other one. But, Draco remembered what the Weasley
      twins said about summoning the Sorting Hat, so it wasn't entirely
      unprecedented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Draco's prediction didn't pan out, he'd learn something. And
      if it <em class="calibre7">worked</em> … invaluable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco started his experiment. He took a deep breath and closed
      his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I really need to know if Harry Potter will turn out to be a
      Dark Lord. It's the most important question I can ask, not just for
      me but for everyone, and there's no easy answer. I need to
      know.</em> Draco took several deep breaths, concentrating.,When he
      opened his eyes Draco saw a small, solid door in the blank wall.
      Draco blinked again, then quickly opened the door. Before, where
      there had been a clean, polished bathroom complete with sinks and a
      sauna, stood a small wooden room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stepped inside, closing the door behind him, when he heard
      the voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Tom," said Albus Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco froze. "Headmaster?" Draco ran forward and saw a giant
      piece of glass floating gently in the middle of the room, a portal
      to another room. Dumbeldore stood in the other room, just beyond
      the portal, which was surrounded by a gold frame. The frame
      anchored the room around it, as if it alone was real and the two
      rooms, the one Draco stood in and the one Dumbledore occupied, were
      merely illusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stopped, frozen by Albus Dumbledore's piercing glare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They said you were lost. And how did you know about..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's face, so hard a moment ago, became bewildered.
      "Quirinus? What -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked confused, and he stuttered out another
      "Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Albus Dumbledore. "I do feel stupid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir, I don't understand. You are supposed to give me advice. I
      thought this room would ..." but Dumbledore spoke right through
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There I am, searching so hard for Voldemort's shade, never
      noticing that the Defense Professor of Hogwarts is a sickly,
      half-dead victim possessed by a spirit far more powerful than
      himself. I would call it senility, if so many others had not missed
      it as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This isn't Dumbledore. This is a ... movie of Dumbledore,
      perhaps.</em> <em class="calibre7">A shade</em>. Draco waved and shouted, but the
      Albus Dumbledore in the mirror - the mirror which did not reflect
      the room he was in, but of another room, more of a cave really –
      didn't answer. The only one in that other room was Dumbledore.
      After a moment, Draco registered the actual words he'd heard.
      <em class="calibre7">Quirrell was Voldemort</em>. Draco sat down, practically
      collapsed. <em class="calibre7">I made the same mistake Father did. I didn't
      recognize my enemy. For a year.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco caught himself. <em class="calibre7">If this is true.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yes indeed," Albus Dumbledore said in level tones. "Your
      acting was perfect; I confess myself utterly deceived. Quirinus
      Quirrell seemed - what is the term I am looking for? Ah yes, that
      is the word. He seemed sane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is not necessarily true. Why do you believe this is
      true? This is an illusion.</em> Draco wanted to believe this is a
      lie, but it felt correct. Why would this room, or whoever created
      it, lie to Draco. What would be the point? That seemed far fetched,
      and if Hogwarts itself was lying to him, Draco didn't know what to
      think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered what he heard. Professor Quirrell was
      Voldemort? Did that make sense? He'd been powerful enough, but ...
      it didn't fit. <em class="calibre7">Did it?</em> Draco sat and listened, listened to
      only one side of the conversation as best he could. <em class="calibre7">Would
      anyone fake half a converstion to fool me</em>? <em class="calibre7">Actually, this
      seems exactly like the sort of thing Father would expect Dumbledore
      to do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Boy-Who-Lived came out of it well enough. Tried to turn him
      into <em class="calibre7">you</em>, did you? Instead you turned yourself into a
      corpse, and Harry Potter became the wizard you should have
      been."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco snapped back his full attention at the mention of Harry
      Potter. <em class="calibre7">If Professor Quirrell was Voldemort, what did that
      imply?</em> Draco's stomach knotted, that sentence could be
      interpreted many ways, but they didn't seem good...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All of Tom Riddle's icy brilliance, tamed to the service of
      James and Lily's warmth and love. I wonder how you felt when you
      saw what Tom Riddle could have become, if he had grown up in a
      loving family?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco relaxed, and realized he'd been holding his breath. This
      was the proof he'd searched for. Dumbledore knew about Harry.
      Dumbledore didn't know about Voldemort, exactly, but <em class="calibre7">Dumbledore
      trusted Harry</em>. Clearly there was some connection between
      Voldemort and Potter, but Harry had become – better. Draco started
      laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose the humor of the situation would be lost on you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">He's not reacting to me. Is he? He wasn't before.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How I laughed when I realized it! When I saw you had made a
      Good Voldemort to oppose the evil one - ah, how I laughed! I never
      had the steel for my role, but Harry Potter shall be more than
      equal to it, when he comes into his power. Though I suppose Harry
      shall have to find some other Dark Lord to vanquish for it, since
      you will not be there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco watched the one sided exchange of the Dumbledore and
      Voldemort's argument, the Headmaster said he wouldn't give in
      despite Voldemort's hostages. This was odd, why did Dumbledore not
      attack Voldemort? Why was he not defending? Why were they talking,
      instead of fighting?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I went down this entire path because Harry Potter spoke with
      Voldemort, and here Dumbledore did it too.</em> Draco paused, them
      remembered to add. <em class="calibre7">If this is true.</em> Does anyone just
      attack their enemy?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore knew Voldemort's true name, he must have taught him.
      Professor Quirrell - Voldemort - must have known about Harry on the
      very first day of classes, known about their relationship. Now that
      Draco thought about it, Quirrell practically devoted his first two
      classes to Harry. Oh, he'd involved Draco and Hermione. But mainly
      Harry. Quirrell mentored Harry through the year, but had it been
      much more extensively than he'd taught Draco?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry probably didn't even know that Quirrell was Voldemort,
      everyone thought Voldemort died. Harry would consider it …
      irrational to worry about, until he had proof.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco now had a perfectly good explanation why Harry Potter had
      been on good terms with Voldemort until he killed him. At some
      point Harry deduced Voldemort's true nature and then they had
      fought, and Harry had won.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's train of thought was interrupted by the name "Harry
      Potter," the Headmaster breathed. "<em class="calibre7">What are you doing
      here?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glanced around, instinctively, to see if he'd been
      discovered. He turned back to see Dumbledore's frantic "No! No!
      No!" and watched as Dumbledore tossed away his wand and a rod that
      Draco recognized as the Line of Merlin Unbroken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then there was a flicker, and Dumbledore was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster reappeared with the words "Hello, Tom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco watched again, paying attention, surprise replaced with
      concentration. He watched a third time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry could be the hostage. Dumbledore had then conceded
      defeat rather than have Voldemort kill Harry.</em> That made
      sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Or Harry had betrayed Dumbledore while working with
      Voldemort, who he betrayed later.</em> That seemed … less likely.
      But not impossible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Or Harry had stumbled onto the final duel between the two
      greatest living wizards and somehow accidentally messed up
      Dumbledore's plan.</em> That hypothesis … could not be rejected out
      of hand. General Chaos had that effect on people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, after several repetitions, tenatively decided against the
      third option. Dumbledore's eyes moved around, he was watching
      Voldemort. It just seemed unlikely that Harry would be there by
      accident. Too many coincidences. Dumbledore's surprise seemed
      genuine. How had Harry snuck up on him? And Voldemort?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco remembered Hermione, appearing out of nowhere in the
      battle just outside this door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco wanted to believe that Harry was a hostage. It wasn't far
      fetched. Draco may have discovered Quirrell's secret, but
      Dumbledore had said "<em class="calibre7">All of Tom Riddle's Icy
      Brilliance...</em>" Tom Riddle must be Voldemort's real name. On
      some level Voldemort was Evil Harry. Or, perhaps, Harry was Good
      Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was a disturbing thought. Draco shuddered at the
      implications.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort only <em class="calibre7">pretended</em> to fly into a rage? Father had
      described scenes of Voldemort with Death Eaters (as second hand
      descriptions). Voldemort didn't appear sane. But if Voldemort was
      Quirrell, that meant he already knew the lessons Quirrell taught.
      How to Lose. Martial Arts. A Voldemort that laughed at Harry's
      ridiculous ways to murder people as useless, because he had
      hundreds of non ridiculous ways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Voldemort so confident that he worked under the nose of his
      greatest enemy for a year - while dying and injured and far from
      the full height of his powers - just to teach and connect with his
      younger self. Or for some other reason, but viewing that as a
      benefit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell was so cunning that he'd managed to fulfill multiple
      wishes with a single plot, just because he wanted to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco thought, and the examples kept piling up. <em class="calibre7">That was
      Voldemort?</em> Not the bedtime monster Father described, but
      someone so cunning that Hogwarts itself - and everyone in it - was
      just an amusing plaything?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco remembered imagining Harry Potter as evil, trying to find
      a sign or clue, all the times he'd looked for a mistake. Now, at
      least, he had the cold comfort that he wasn't just deficient in
      imagination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If this was true.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Why do I believe what I believe?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Draco thought about it again. Voldemort had defeated
      Dumbledore ... somehow. Dumbledore was gone, and this didn't seem
      like a ruse. If Quirrell was Voldemort and had Harry as a hostage,
      then he'd gotten the upper hand. That didn't make sense at all,
      that felt confusing. Draco got up and started pacing, when he came
      to the backside of the portal he saw that it had some thickness,
      but not nearly enough to hold the room Dumbledore was in. Draco
      read the words, and felt like he understood them, but when he
      looked away he couldn't remember what they meant. He want back
      around to the front, and looked through the portal. Draco put his
      hand out to see if he could touch it, but it felt like a sheet of
      glass, smooth and cool.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered the timeline. Dumbledore is waiting for
      Voldemort in this device, a doorway into another place. Presumably
      he knew Voldemort needed it. Dumbledore surprised Voldemort, but
      learned that Voldemort was possessing Quirrel. Voldemort traps
      Dumbeldore without any spell, so presumably he'd expected an
      ambush, and maybe brought Harry Potter along.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And <em class="calibre7">then</em> Harry Potter defeats Voldemort? No. On their
      best day the entire first year army would stand no chance against
      Professor Quirrell, unless they ambushed them. A clever Voldemort
      with enough time to plan to defeat Dumbledore. Draco could convince
      himself that Harry and Quirrell could defeat Voldemort, but Harry
      by himself AND facing Voldemort as smart as Quirrell? Was that
      really more likely than Voldemort had simply quit possessing
      Quirrell</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That Voldemort had pretended to lose. He could be possessing
      anyone. He could be possessing Harry. Or they could be working
      together, for some purpose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despair washed over Draco. "This isn't an answer," he mumbled to
      the room, empty except for the shade of his former Headmaster. Then
      he shouted "I still don't know!" at the image of Albus Dumbledore,
      who was <em class="calibre7">saying</em> 'Hello, Tom' again<em class="calibre7">.</em> "It's not
      enough! How does this qualify as an answer? You trusted Harry
      knowing he was Voldemort, but <em class="calibre7">Voldemort fooled you too</em>!"
      Draco took out his wand and lashed out, cutting the portal,
      smashing spell after spell at it, first normal spells he'd use in
      classes and on the battlefield, then the spells Father had told him
      to not reveal. Draco levitated a chair from across the room and
      flung it at the portal. The chair itself shattered from the impact,
      leaving no cracks on the glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few minutes, exhausted, he slumped back to the ground,
      mumbling. "It's not fair. That's not an answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco woke up with a start, sitting at his desk.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
