<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 31: The Date, Part 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s31" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 31: The Date, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you be all right?" Hermione asked, as they stood at his
      open door. Draco's face shone in the moonlight. Light from Xare,
      flashes of orange, danced across his face and especially his hair.
      "I mean, with your mother?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're family," Draco said. "I'll worry about it later." The
      words hung in the humid air and Hermione saw him hesitate, just for
      a second, before bowing and disappearing into Malfoy Manor.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione heard her parents' discussion as she glided down the
      stairs for breakfast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a lovely young man," Mum said. "And It's not like she's
      going to stay our little girl forever, Leo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smelled the slightly stale coffee. She couldn't
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> smell it, just like she couldn't <em class="calibre7">not</em> hear her
      parents, even though they were two rooms away. At Hogwarts there
      were so many noises that even though she heard them all, none of
      them really registered. At home the quiet amplified everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What kind of boy sends a bouquet like this, after a first
      date?" Dad grumbled, then slurped some coffee. Hermione could smell
      the flowers before she walked into the kitchen, but when she walked
      in she stopped. The vase stood in the middle of the table, and had
      a red carnation entwined with a yellow rose sporting thorns that
      looked like they'd been sharpened on a whetstone. A pink amaryllis
      stood above them, and they were surrounded by a collection of
      lavender peonies. Two lillies, one hanging languidly to each side,
      guarded the ensemble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She walked over, entranced, as Mum said "Good morning" and
      inhaled the complex aromas that hung over the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The card simply said <strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre7">To: H, From:
      D.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione broke from her reverie to kiss her parents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what are your plans for today?" Leo asked, as Hermione
      poured herself a glass of orange juice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a book I absolutely <em class="calibre7">have</em> to read," she
      answered.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
