<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 32: Portkeys, Trains and Carriages, Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s32" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 32: Portkeys, Trains and Carriages, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Only those who can dream of great Crimes ever suspect
      anything more than petty theft." - Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Draco crossed the threshold of Platform Nine and Three
      Quarters his charcoal suit smoothly flowed into a robe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody witnessed the change. Draco wasn't showing off but he'd
      studied feverishly and practiced all during the holidays and it
      amused Draco. He knew it was a childish thrill, being sharply
      dressed in the correct fashion on both sides of the barrier. That
      realization didn't diminish his joy one bit, he'd dropped his
      Transfiguration at the exact right time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hadn't been a free Transfiguration; those took too long to
      master and he couldn't get nearly the amount of details down. His
      freely transfigured suits looked like they'd been tailored by a
      bunch of drunken forest creatures. Grindelwald had tutted
      dismissively when Draco told him that they started with free
      Transfiguration at Hogwarts. They started first years with fixed
      Transfigurations at Durmstrang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald and Dumbledore had argued pedagogy over the
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course Free Transfiguration is better," Grindelwald had
      said, "but what good does that do you right now? And roughly half
      the students will never be good at it. Bah. Yes, each fixed
      transfiguration requires it's own word and wand motions, but these
      can be derived. <em class="calibre7">Did they not tell you that</em> at school? Such
      strange teachings methods, that do not help the less talented get
      along yet also do not let the most talented shine. Come, pick some
      items, we will research it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had taken several days, but Draco had learned to Transfigure
      his robes into his suit. <em class="calibre7">It doesn't count as bragging if nobody
      else hears</em>, and Draco smiled when he stepped onto the
      platform, robes flowing smoothly around him. He kept up a brisk
      pace while his trunk padded behind him, moving through the crowd
      easily, saying hello, waving. Neville was already on the platform,
      fumbling through his trunk looking for Trevor. Draco didn't see
      Augusta Longbottom around. She'd probably already left. Vincent and
      Gregory were in an animated discussion, and Draco smiled even
      further when he saw they wore the matching robes he'd given them.
      His smile froze when Padma Patil glared at him, why would she be
      mad?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh, she likes me.</em> Draco realized that she'd been around
      Slytherin, but had often hung around him instead of making new
      friends. <em class="calibre7">She even joined the group rescuing you from the
      bullies,</em> Draco remembered. At the time he'd just marked it
      down as Padma hanging out with Harry Potter and trying to make
      friends with the powerful students her age. In hindsight it was
      easy to see, and remember the other times he'd seen her and just
      assumed she was being friendly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Your training never taught me anything about this,</em>
      <em class="calibre7">Father.</em> Draco thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Six Month younger you didn't notice this,</em> Father
      replied, <em class="calibre7">so exactly how would <span>you</span> explain this to
      ten year old Draco?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco knew many of the complex love triangles. He probably knew
      more about them than any Wizard his age (although obviously less
      than any Witch his age). But he'd never thought the knowledge would
      apply to him. Draco smiled to Padma and waved as though nothing was
      wrong. <em class="calibre7">I can't stop being oblivious now</em> and walked over to
      the newsstand to see what fresh lies the <em class="calibre7">Quibbler</em>
      spewed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">GIRL-WHO-REVIVED DUELS NARCISSA MALFOY</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">SACKS MALFOY MANOR,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">DRACO MALFOY PREGNANT?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's like they aren't even trying anymore," Draco said, as he
      slapped down four knuts and grabbed a copy. "I guess pregnancy news
      sells in the red tops."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It does seem to at that," the vendor agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Hermione Granger came to my house, attacked my mother and
      then burned Malfoy Manor to the ground."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pity that," said that vendor. "It had lovely Feng Shui."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco flipped a page, "Then kidnapped me to be her love
      slave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could do a lot worse, as abductors go," said the vendor.
      Seeing Draco's look, he raised his hands in a gesture of surrender.
      "Usually it's the ugly ones that stoop to that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least our child is going to be the chosen one who saves the
      world. Seriously, who reads this stuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've no idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shoved the <em class="calibre7">Quibbler</em> into his mokeskin pouch. He'd
      show it Hermione later. <em class="calibre7">Maybe she'd actually burn them
      down</em>. It was a pleasant thought, though of course she'd never
      do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If you actually date Padma Patil, she'd burn the Quibbler
      down for you</em>, Father said. Draco ignored him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco walked back to the train, stopping to interject himself
      into a crowd of older Slytherins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jugson, Derrick, Lestrange," he said, nodding slightly. "I
      trust your holidays went well?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not as good as yours, Malfoy," said Peregrine Derrick, smiling
      and laughing. Draco noticed that the others didn't join in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Silly rumours," Draco said, "It's my burden that witches find
      me attractive. Tell me, Derrick, how do you manage to keep them
      away so easily?" Now Ethan Jugson and Lesath Lestrange started
      laughing and Peregrine Derrick didn't storm off, but just smiled
      wanly. With MacNair expelled and the Hestia Carrow still recovering
      the balance of power had shifted. <em class="calibre7">I need to deal with the
      stragglers, but maybe they'll just give up.….</em> Draco turned to
      Ethan. "How is your brother doing? Settling in after the move?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. He's excited, wrote several letters about it," said Ethan
      then, in response to the Peregrine's look, "Robert moved out to the
      Caymans. Took a portkey last week. Said he wanted to strike out and
      make his fortune and that he was tired of school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't we all?" said Derrick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lestrange spoke up. "It's just the first day back. You can't be
      tired of it until ... February." Draco nodded, <em class="calibre7">That's new.</em>
      He hadn't heard Lestrange speak up in a group in a long time.
      Usually he just sulked in his room or wandered the halls, lurking.
      Nobody was really sure what Lesath did, apart from ducking bullies.
      Maybe he'd also had a better time of it, after Hermione and Harry's
      anti-bullying campaigns. It took a while to recover from trauma.
      Draco perked up at the thought. <em class="calibre7">If Lesath can recover from
      years of torment in under a year, I should be fine any day
      now.</em> Draco saw Hermione boarding the train and excused
      himself. Derrick made a little whip cracking noise and everyone
      laughed, including Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After stowing his trunk and climbing on board, Draco found
      Hermione in a car with Parvati Patil, Lavender Brown and Hannah
      Abbot. Besides them was a copy of Septavia Magnusson's <em class="calibre7">Flowers,
      Arrangements and Their Meanings</em> lying face down on the seat.
      Obviously Hermione hadn't set it down, she wouldn't have left a
      book open like that, might damage the spine. Chocolate frog
      wrappers littered the floor<em class="calibre7">.</em> The witches' animated
      discussion stopped the instant Draco appeared. Draco blushed, then
      regained the use of his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, I don't suppose you'd sack <em class="calibre7">The Quibbler,</em>"
      Draco hoped his tone was light and playful. <em class="calibre7">I must be insane,
      trying to talk to her when she's surrounded by her friends.</em>
      Hermione shook her head and started to say something, but the other
      spoke up first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's more of a third date sort of thing," Lavender Brown
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good girls wait," agreed Hannah, nodding. There was
      giggling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I assure you Hermione was a perfect Lady and kept her hands
      to herself, but it never hurts to ask." Draco said to the assorted
      sniggers as Hermione blushed and stuttered. <em class="calibre7">Insane or not, I
      can play that game</em>. "Are you coming to Professor Slughorn's
      car?" Draco didn't bother to address the others, and tried to
      ignore their comments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No...I hadn't planned to. In any case I thought that wasn't
      until lunch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My invite said eleven," Draco said. The Hogwarts Express let
      out a piercing whistle – last call – and Draco looked at his
      watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd better get going, then," said Parvati.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I suppose I should." Draco picked up the book and examined
      the page, then started reading out load. "Amaryllis – am I saying
      that right? – have a wide range of meanings with shades of
      subtleties. That is a nice turn of phrase, isn't it?" Draco thumbed
      through several more pages. "Fascinating book. You know, I really
      should read it some day." He leaned over to Hermione to hand the
      book back to her, winking when he hoped that the others couldn't
      see him. Then stood up, and made a small bow to the entire
      carriage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ladies," he said, as he took his leave, shutting the door
      behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That ought to keep them talking.</em> Perhaps he should have
      made it seem like he was trying to hide the wink, but let them see.
      <em class="calibre7">It probably didn't matter, and it's not like I can predict
      which would be better.</em> Draco realized he'd have to seriously
      examine how his date with Hermione affected his reputation. And
      make sure that Hermione didn't misinterpret his joking. It
      certainly made things interesting. A number of students that Draco
      barely knew where talking about him, or at least whispering and
      pointing, as he made his way to the Professor's car. <em class="calibre7">Then
      again, everyone always thinks that everything is about them. I'm
      probably just noticing the people who appear interested.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He passed Vincent and Gregory, sitting with Neville. Gregory
      waved him in, but Draco just flashed the invitation he'd been
      examining, shrugged, and kept walking. It definitely said 'Eleven
      am.' <em class="calibre7">What would Professor Slughorn want to talk about in
      private?</em> It could be the fallout from the expulsions, and the
      general course of House Slytherin. In his gut, Draco didn't believe
      that for a second. He slowed his pace, taking more time to say
      hello to people. No need to be early.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in!" said Professor Slughorn to the knock. The Hogwart's
      Express lurched forward right as the door opened and Draco Malfoy
      stumbled slightly upon entering. There was a wide table between
      them and Draco's eyes scanned the settings, taking in the scene of
      (empty) chairs and eight elegant place settings. The glasses
      wobbled slightly as the train accelerated in small bursts, chugging
      forward. The table wasn't circular - no false equality here – and
      Horace sat at one end, able to view the entire table as well as the
      entrance to his private carriage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, my boy! Take a seat, please. Would you like some tea?"
      Professor Slughorn didn't gesture towards any one particular seat,
      his hands were holding up a small pot of tea and he started to pour
      a second cup. He wanted to see where Draco chose to sit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please. I wouldn't want you to have to reach across the table,"
      Draco said, sitting down at the opposite end, He took out his wand
      and cast <em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em> and gently drifted his tea to
      him and took a sip. "Fortunately, now that we're officially back at
      school, I don't have to inconvenience you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horace chuckled. "Oh, very good. But don't you want to sit at my
      right hand? You should want to impress your Professor and Head of
      House with your close rapport and set yourself up as my proxy over
      your fellow students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There will be students from all houses attending this, as I
      recall. And it is not clear to me that I want to be associated
      closely with my house. The opposite end of the table puts me in a
      similar position of authority, but as a counterbalance to yourself.
      Students naturally feel a pull to ally against Professors. And by
      sitting with my back to the door, I show implicit trust that I am
      safe from attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because of my presence? Or because of past events, I wonder?
      Well, either one works. And what of the non-Slytherins? What will
      they think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They won't consciously notice the seating position in any
      case." Draco put down his tea, liquid still sloshing around.
      Professor Slughorn chuckled approvingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very good. <em class="calibre7">Very good</em>. I shouldn't test your training,
      but you mustn't blame an old man's curiosity. In any case, I don't
      even think most Slytherin pay much attention to these signals
      anymore. It's out of fashion. Did you not care for the tea? I have
      a wide variety to choose from. Darjeeling, perhaps?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's cup silently drifted back over to Professor Slughorn,
      who produced another pot of tea and poured into Draco's now-empty
      cup. Professor Slughorn refilled his own cup and took a nosy gulp
      before levitating Draco's tea back to him. He could see out of the
      corner of his eye that the significance wasn't lost on the boy.
      Draco quickly picked up his cup and took a sip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I honestly don't have much appreciation for the various types
      of tea. They taste mostly identical. If you hadn't said it was
      Darjeeling, I wouldn't have known." Draco set the cup back
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horace got up and went over to the trunk resting besides his
      chair, then opened it up and leaned dangerously far in,
      disappearing at the waist. "Next time I will stock some butterbeer,
      then? I may have something else ..." his voice disappeared for a
      few seconds, and the sound of rattling glass could be heard. "Hm.
      Perhaps I shouldn't offer underage students a wine - no matter how
      exquisite - while I am their official guardian and chaperone? What
      <em class="calibre7">would</em> the Headmistress say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn stood up from his trunk and walked over to
      Draco, then offered him a small red and white can of Coke. "Or
      perhaps this is more to your taste?" Professor Slughorn gestured
      and Draco's cup turned into a tall glass, and he popped the can
      open and poured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor. My unsubtle taste buds thank you as well.
      No point in asking how you knew about this," Draco said, picking up
      his glass and taking a drink of the still-fizzing soda.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn sat down to Draco's left and he said "Tell
      me, my boy. What did you do this break? And where the hell is
      Gellart Grindelwald?" right as he met Draco's eyes.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
