<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 6: Efficient Sorting Algorithms, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Efficient Sorting Algorithms</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat comfortably at the Slytherin table staring up into the
      dusk sky. Clouds drifted lazily from the North and birds, starlings
      mostly, darted around. Draco watched the flock expand and contract,
      thoughts drifting through conversations, weighing potential allies
      and enemies. Vincent and Gregory's position took up some thoughts,
      as did recent lessons from his diary, and his earlier conversations
      on the train. Draco wasn't <em class="calibre7">thinking</em> just
      <em class="calibre7">remembering</em> and idly considering connections that popped
      into his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's thoughts drifted like clouds above.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had already studied the head table, seating arrangements
      told a story. At the center sat Minerva McGonagall, black hair
      flowing freely under her still stern hat. Professors Sprout and
      Flitwick flanked her. The Headmistress chatted with both, gazing
      solemnly over the assembled students. On the other side of Flitwick
      sat Horace Slughorn, leaning over his own belly to chortle as he
      pointed out entering students to the bored Charms instructor.
      Beside Sprout sat a man whose deeply scarred right cheek marred an
      otherwise handsome look. His red and gold robes (and seat)
      announced the new Head of Gryffindor. Draco didn't recognize him.
      Other professors sat on wings of the head table. Professor Burbage
      looked annoyed sitting next to a young-ish Muggle dressed in an
      oddly styled suit. The lapels were much wider, colors much bolder
      than suits Draco encountered.. The Muggle's wild black hair, thick
      plastic glasses and lush mutton chop sideburns looked like nothing
      Draco had seen in his admitted limited experience. Certainly no
      teenager he'd met dressed like that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After taking in the head table, Draco glanced around the house
      tables. Slytherin's sparseness bothered him so he stared at the sky
      instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room quieted when the First Years entered, led by Hagrid.
      Draco's eyes drifted earthward and noticed that the Headmistress
      already standing. He hadn't heard. She gazed down at the procession
      of children, barely smaller but much less confident than Second
      Years. Had it really only been one year? First years waved at
      siblings and drew themselves close into small groups under the
      withering inspection of the older students who whispered, jeered,
      and made clandestine bets. The Sorting Hat, placed on a small stool
      in front of the head table sat silent until the children filled in
      the gaps between the tables and stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small rip in the cloth revealed itself to the gasp of the
      First Years, and the Hat spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm the cleverest piece of leather</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">ever formed into a hat</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And I've stayed the same forever</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Though I change my annual chat.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Since the cornerstone was placed</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">upon the ground to start our school</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The yearly opening feast must wait</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">while I declaim atop this stool!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Should you be in Ravenclaw</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">you'll answer riddles by the door,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">For sharpening the student's mind</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">was Rowena's favorite chore.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If you land in Hufflepuff,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">then you'll never lack a friend,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">For Helga was the glue</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">that held together till the end.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If 'tis Slytherin you seek,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">then your reward you must chase</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">For the virtue of ambition</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">surely drew you to their place</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And every Gryffindor does know</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">that the path righteous and true</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">demands the utmost bravery -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Nothing else at all will do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But I have a secret request</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That I choose now to reveal:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Consider those whose grand bequest</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">created Hogwart's Mighty Seal.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Look closely at our Founders -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">consider their full history -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You'll find extended meanings</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">and glimpse a subtle mystery.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">For Rowena was ambitious,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And Salazar was brave,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And Godric fiercely loyal,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Helga clever to her grave.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Each founder has more character</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">than we remember every day</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Do not oversimplify the</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">complex virtues they display.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What use is noble bravery</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">if you cannot tell what's right?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What will you do with cleverness</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">when you've lost the will to fight?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">How will your true ambition taste</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">when you're lonely at the end?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And if you do nothing at all</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Who would want you as a friend?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Tho' our Founders have their virtues</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Each exhibits certain flaws</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yet my magic is constrained</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">to Sorting strictly by their Laws.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So I am a simple top piece</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Bound to my appointed task.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9">You</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">can ponder,</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9">you</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">can question;</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That is from all of you I ask.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Know Thyself! For You are Deeper</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">than the Sorting I do voice,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I am not your only Keeper</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You do daily get a Choice.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hear me Teachers! Hear me Students!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I do finish now my Song.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><span>Those who state opinions firmly</span></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><span>May still be completely wrong.</span></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the Hat began the hall sat rapt and silent, first years
      stunned by the Hat itself, everyone else by the message. When the
      Hat named each House their table cheered (not too loud, everyone
      knows the Hat does not pause). As the song continued into the
      founder's flaws whispering started. Professor Slughorn looked
      nervous; might the Hat dare abolish Slytherin altogether? The
      murmurs rose until the Headmistress' harsh <em class="calibre7">Shhshh</em> quieted
      everyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the last word resounded in a silent hall, Draco looked
      around. Scattered claps sounded after a few seconds, nothing like
      the rambunctious applause after last year's song. What had the hat
      meant? The Hat had reminded him that each Founder possessed virtues
      the others espoused. Why?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Flitwick, holding a scroll, said "Creevey, Colin" and
      Draco's eyes snapped back to the Sorting, all polite attention. The
      Hat had said '<em class="calibre7">Yet my magic is constrained.'</em> The Hat chose.
      That's what it did. Colin went into Ravenclaw. Draco focused on the
      words as several other students got chosen. One went into
      Slytherin, which distracted Draco as he clapped and tried to
      remember the boy's name. That wasn't a good sign. The hat picked
      the dominant virtue; everyone had a mix of virtues; the Hat did its
      best. Draco's thinking went in circles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond girl - so <em class="calibre7">that</em> was Luna Lovegood - went to
      Ravenclaw. Draco snorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hat admitted it could be wrong. It couldn't come out and say
      "I'm wrong, sometimes" so it stated that people could be wrong, but
      the meaning was clear. Draco's eyes narrowed. He should be in
      Slytherin. He <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> to be in Slytherin. But others
      thought "Anywhere but Slytherin..." and the Hat accommodated them
      the best it could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Did the Hat regret that? Or did it regret putting anyone into
      Slytherin?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Smith, Zacharias" spent a slow minute under the Hat's brim
      before winding up, surprisingly, in Hufflepuff. Draco scanned the
      crowd for wrongly sorted students, looking to find those who should
      have been in Slytherin. But he couldn't think of any. Vincent and
      Gregory were saying something and his eyes settled past them, onto
      Pansy Parkinson. Could he get rid of her? Should he? He glanced
      around the Hall, again. Mike from Hufflepuff had potential...he
      thought about the problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco realized he couldn't solve it. Nobody wanted to be in
      Slytherin after last year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weasley, Ginevra" was sorted into Gryffindor to the cheers of
      her rambunctious siblings. Apparently she was the final student
      because the Headmistress was getting ready to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco realized he could solve <em class="calibre7">another</em> problem and stood
      up. At first, only nearby students looked at him as he took a deep
      breath. He made no motion to draw attention to himself, other than
      standing up, and hoped that it would be enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Malfoy?" Headmistress McGonagall's voice sounded …
      mild.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Hat said it made mistakes. We should let students who think
      the Hat got it wrong sort again." This set off loud conversations.
      Draco could hear the shock and Macnair kicked him hard under the
      table, hissing "We'll have no House left!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco ignored the pain "It's against tradition, but the Hat
      practically begged us..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmistress cut him off. "Very well. Does anyone wish to be
      Sorted again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence. Nobody wanted to go first, and Draco couldn't
      volunteer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father's training allowed him to stand up, to speak in front of
      others, to draw attention to himself. He'd ignored fear and shame
      often enough, though he felt it. For others, it must be paralyzing.
      Draco walked to the stool and picked up the Hat, carefully keeping
      it below his head at all times, then quickly returned to Slytherin
      table, stopping in front of Vincent. Draco held out the Hat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe shook his head. "I can't. I shouldn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco slowly raised the Hat, "You'd be happier. Let the Hat sort
      again." Crabbe gave a short nod and Draco dropped the Hat on his
      head before Vince changed his mind. Draco had a few steps to get
      back to his seat. The whispering had started when the Hat cried out
      "Hufflepuff!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hufflepuff table broke into applause, joined by Gryffindor
      and Ravenclaw. Fred Weasley shouted "That's the bravest thing I've
      seen!" and sounded like he meant it. At the Slytherin table only
      Draco and Gregory clapped. Draco would have to pretend to lose in
      the near future, he realized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vincent moved to the Hufflepuff Table, wiping his face. He
      passed the stool, still wearing the Hat, and went back to place it
      but Padma Patil caught up with him and politely held out her hand.
      Vincent handed it to her, bowing with a small smile. Padma
      <em class="calibre7">plonked</em> the Hat firmly on her head with no ceremony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco held his breath, hoping. Padma had been his second in
      command, after all...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"SLYTHERIN!" came the shout, and Draco clapped, whistled and
      shouted with rest of the table, except for Pansy Parkinson. Padma's
      twin Parvarti, sat at Gryffindor, mouth agape and clapped
      slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Ginevra Weasley stood up the entire Gryffindor table
      gasped, and she quickly went into Ravenclaw. At that point the
      Headmistress stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Weasley, kindly return the Hat to its place." She held up
      her hand. "The Hat is available for the duration of the Feast and
      I, for one, am famished." She clapped her hands twice and the food
      appeared as Ginny unceremoniously dumped the Hat before rushing to
      Ravenclaw. She sat next to Luna, who had been sitting alone. Draco
      tore into a roll and ate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That had worked out surprisingly well. Vincent would be happier
      with more friends and less pressure. Padma's surprise had probably
      saved him at least one beating and meant that there were students,
      good students, who held sympathy. Draco smiled and ate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The professors, who normally ate with polite small talk, had an
      animated discussion that he couldn't quite hear. Professor Burbage
      filled in the Muggle on details. Draco wasn't positive, but thought
      The Headmistress had told Flitwick and Slughorn to cool it. The new
      Head of Gryffindor stared at Draco and a few other students, just
      eating, no conversation. During the meal three more students went
      under the Hat, each time causing a hush. Fred Weasley or maybe
      George sauntered forward just before desert before breaking into a
      smile and jogging back to his seat under a small barrage of
      buttered dinner rolls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After finishing off some iced cake Draco went up and grabbed the
      Hat, again keeping it low to signal that he wasn't going to put it
      on. He walked to the Ravenclaw table, eyes locked firmly on Harry
      Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to wave him off but Draco went past Harry and
      stopped in front of Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd planned a small speech on his walk over. <em class="calibre7">You are
      incredibly clever, but not enough to convince me that the Girl who
      stood up to bullies, Dumbledore, Voldemort and Azkaban is rightly
      sorted.</em> But as he walked over, he realized it didn't need to
      be said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd never brag," Draco explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blushed. Draco raised the Hat slightly and paused, just
      in case she refused. Draco placed it gently on her head and
      "GRYFFINDOR" rang out instantly with enough force to shove Draco
      backwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hall exploded into applause and Hermione stood up, as boys
      patted her arm and girls pulled her into hugs. Draco took the Hat
      off her head and walked back onto the podium. As he sat down he
      mumbled "Let's see Ravenclaw win the House Cup now," to nobody in
      particular.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter stood up from the middle of the Ravenclaw. "I
      promised the Hat I'd never wear it again," which sparked murmuring
      in the hall and a full-blown five hour debate in the Ravenclaw
      commons room later that night. "But given it's pronouncement, I'd
      like to alternate between Ravenclaw and Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Of course you would</em>, Mr. Potter," said the
      Headmistress. She motioned for him to change seats as the students
      laughed and a few snaps echoed around the hall. "Anyone else?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Colin Creevey switched to Slytherin, which concluded Hogwart's
      first Re-sorting.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Confession</strong> - I originally wrote these
      early chapters as a mood piece, and now consider them a prologue.
      Since I've gotten good response and I'm enjoying writing this, I'm
      continuing and play to write out a full year. I'll probably have to
      take some breaks for that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the extended story I've got a good plot, mostly consistent.
      But I see gaps I can't easily fill. I might be able to do it, but
      it would make the story worse. I'd be adding epicycles, I fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My options are to delay until I can bulletproof it or just enjoy
      the story. Since I stop writing when considering the parts that
      give me trouble, I've decided to just keep my momentum and hope
      that I'll spot a solution without agonizing, and accept that there
      may be some handwaving if I fail. (I find ideas arrive easiest when
      I don't force them, a theme played out in Draco's daydreaming
      above, which I wrote weeks ago).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If, at the end of the story you say "But... but... but...", know
      that I am well aware of several issues and probably missed more,
      and I wish I could do better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is a complex plot, but it's entertainment (hopefully) and
      writing practice. Constructing a perfect puzzle isn't my
      motivation. Also, I believe the world is an ambiguous place. So
      questions like "<em class="calibre7">Is Hermione an Occlumens</em>" (on the train
      scene) may not be answered early (or ever).</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">("Such is Realism.")</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In most cases I have answers to those questions in mind when I
      write the scene (I did for that particular example). Sometimes I
      flub it, though. I will show scenes without Draco to clear things
      up more (after the prologue), but not every question will be
      answered. After answering that particular question I decided that
      I'm going to, in general, let the work speak for itself except for
      the cases where I realize that I've fallen to the Illusion of
      Transparency, then I'll answer and revise (or if I've made an
      easily correctable blunder). I'm not going to defend the decisions
      in real time, in part because it gives away too much, and it's just
      not practical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you treat this story as a perfect puzzle, at the end you may
      discover pieces missing. Or poor connections.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I hope you enjoy the picture, though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'd like to put a puzzle in, and there will be puzzles, but
      that's not in any way my primary goal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Consider this fair warning.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
