<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 9: Known Unknowns, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: Known Unknowns</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knocked on the door. Gregory cracked it open, glanced at
      him, then opened the door just wide enough for Harry to slip
      through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room, off the hallway between the entrance to Slytherin
      House and the commons, felt spacious. Not as large as Harry's
      trunk, but almost as large as the room his trunk sat in last year,
      with the rest of the Ravenclaw first year boys. There were three
      relatively spartan beds, one along the far wall and one each on the
      left and right. To the right of the far bed Draco sat at his desk,
      back to the door, writing furiously. Stairs leading down into a
      small pool of water to the bed's left. Harry wondered if it
      connected to the pond he passed on the way in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory walked over to his desk and half-leaned against, half
      sat on his hands. After a few final notes, Draco firmly shut the
      small black book, and gently pushed it against the black lacquered
      cane resting in the crack between desk and wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Harry," Draco said as he stood up. "Sorry, eventful
      evening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded towards the pool. The torches (torches! Finally!)
      on the wall provided ample light to play across the small waves
      that lapped against the top stair, but never seemed to escape past
      it. "Aren't you worried something may come out of the water?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," Draco said. "<em class="calibre7">Alceriato!</em>" The water
      bubbled noisily, but still never spilled out of the pool. Even
      inches away from the edge the floor stood bone dry. "It's
      uncomfortably warm even for a magician. A merman, well..." he
      shrugged. "<em class="calibre7">Tepidius!"</em> The bubbling faded as the
      enchantment ended. "In any case it's also an escape route."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory angled his head towards the door, an inquiring look.
      Draco ignored it and sprawled out on his bed and stared up at the
      ceiling. "What say you, Gregory? Should we offer Crabbe's bunk to
      Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, I'd have to think about it. You snore,
      Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's tone had been playful, but experience left Gregory no
      doubt as to the intent. Draco wanted Gregory's opinion, he had
      doubts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose there are upsides," Gregory said noncommittally.
      Gregory thought that it would be exciting to have Harry Potter for
      a room-mate, and possibly useful. But Gregory had seen, second
      hand, the toll that Harry's friendship had put on Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't mean to impose. In Ravenclaw each year has a room,"
      said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you know very well that's how it works here, too, Potter."
      Draco waved his hands towards the commons area. "Gregory and I will
      be summarily booted back there in a week or two, no doubt. So it
      doesn't cost me anything to be make the offer." Gregory
      chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat down on what he now considered his bed. "Was the duel
      that important?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat up and looked at him, then shoved his back against the
      wall and drew his feet up against his chest. "That? Not really,
      which is why I could concede so quickly. That was but a symptom of
      the reduced status of House Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why Strategema with Ethan," Harry asked. Seeing puzzled
      looks, he explained. "From a Muggle show. A master player
      frustrates another master by making inferior moves during their
      game. He ignores superior moves to play for the draw. Which
      infuriates his opponent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shook his head. "Nothing so clever. The Duel gave me an
      opening. A chance to confirm that people could trust me. Could back
      me, without appearing weak." Draco rested his knees on his chin.
      "Trust is a rare commodity, here. Ethan handed me a bottle full of
      it and I decided how to play it, without considering him. And you
      know the worst part? I'd warned myself against that type of mistake
      earlier today"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you got to state your case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned slightly towards Gregory, who shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nobody will remember that tomorrow. They've probably forgotten
      already. If we had people reinforcing our position, restating
      it..." Gregory trailed off. Potter could figure it out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed. "Every strength has a corresponding weakness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry interrupted. "And vice versa, like using truth serum to
      your benefit, Draco. That was a good idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco bit his lip. "Thinking logically helps you, but blinds you
      to how others think. You can work it out, but it takes time. I'm
      wondering if it's blinding me, too." He pulled his knees
      closer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter had seen Draco in a variety of moods before, but
      morose was new experience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose it does. No, I know it does. Its one of those cases
      where I want to believe people will work things out, despite all
      the evidence I have from last year. But I have a friend with a
      masterful understanding of human nature."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco snorted. "He's talking about you, Gregory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the noise in the common room it sounded like the prefect
      had ordered the first years up to their room, the room that Draco
      had never set foot in all last year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it really that bad, Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know. Imagine how Robert feels, knowing Ethan didn't
      answer quickly. I had to resign, right away, before he answered.
      That doesn't even get into Ethan and Sara. I should have never made
      that accusation." Draco shuffled over to his dresser and started to
      put away his cloak, to prepare his bed. "And the part that I never
      considered, was how much I'd been lying to myself. That shook
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People lie to themselves all the time, Draco" said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not consciously," said Gregory. "The … awareness of it, that's
      novel. We could see it, we all saw Draco trying to answer and not
      being able to." Harry Potter had never seen this side of Gregory
      (or Vincent, he remembered) and realized that <em class="calibre7">of course</em>
      Draco Malfoy shared an easy camaraderie with his friends. With a
      shock Harry Potter remembered Gregory's long pause under the
      Sorting Hat. At the time, he'd naturally assumed the choice was
      between Hufflepuff and Slytherin. Now Ravenclaw seemed likely. Lord
      Malfoy dare not share his secrets with fools, nor would he want
      fools helping his children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory's public silence showed that he understood his role. And
      nothing more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter stood in a room with Draco's consigliere. One of
      them, anyway. The memory of Lucius with the Elder Goyle and Crabbe,
      their unspoken coordination, flash to mind. That kind of trust
      required years. Perhaps generations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reconsidered if living with Draco would be a good idea,
      and tried to remember exactly how he'd been invited. <em class="calibre7">Just how
      detailed a message could they exchange under my nose?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sighed. "Every. Single. Witch. Has probably heard about
      this by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suspected some heard it hours ago. "I should, uh, go get
      my trunk. I'll be back in a bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you need any help?" Gregory and Draco asked
      simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm fine." Harry stopped at the door. "Well, there's one
      thing, at least. I think Salazar Slytherin would approve of this
      tradition. Who knows? Those duels may date back to Slytherin
      himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What makes you say that?" Gregory asked, while Draco said "Not
      that I've heard of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry <em class="calibre7">definitely</em> saw them exchange a look that had
      meaning he couldn't read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I should find another place to stay," said Harry. "I
      mean, I think I'd be intruding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I think you should stay, Potter," said Draco. "But if you
      do we can't go tip-toeing around like this. I've kept your secrets
      mostly, from Vincent and Gregory. But if you move in we don't
      exclude Gregory. You'd be here with <em class="calibre7">both</em> of us. Everything
      I'm in. I've told him my side already, but … we built up our
      relation by sharing secrets. This won't work if we all have to
      spend minutes thinking about what to say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Gregory. "So, when you said there were
      upsides..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Better to have you inside pissing out, Potter. I live with
      Draco in any case, I'd like to understand how you spin him around.
      And since we're all working to save the House" – now Harry shot
      Draco a look, one that Gregory read easily as 'I suppose fair's
      fair, but still...' – "it will make all our lives easier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, to confirm, the two of you are inviting me to live
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Until such time as we get booted back to the 2nd year floor,"
      said Gregory, and thrust out his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook it. "I've got to get my stuff." Gregory held
      firm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what did you mean, about Salazar?" asked Gregory, releasing
      the hand. "What do you know about Slytherin that we don't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter stood there, thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he wasn't the only one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter thought faster than most students, faster than most
      adults even, and he thought faster (and in some ways, deeper) than
      Draco Malfoy. But he didn't think <em class="calibre7">orders of magnitude</em>
      faster. Harry Potter quickly considered the implications of
      revealing his secret to Gregory, whom he didn't know well, and to
      Draco, who would realize the implication eventually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But most of Harry Potter's legendary speed came from the fact
      that he thought ahead. Harry planned for routine trouble and spent
      time considering trouble most people wouldn't think about. From
      Harry's point of view, being surprised at his speed of thought was
      about as useful as being surprised that a Grandmaster could defeat
      dozens of players simultaneously with almost no effort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the Master's opponents stared at the chessboard at move
      10, the Grandmaster recognized this game and knew the best move for
      each response. Grandmasters, as part of their journey, literally
      wrote books about standard positions. Not only did a Master (of any
      endeavour) think more clearly and deeply than a novice, in most
      cases he didn't have to think at all. Certainly not against lesser
      players. Becoming world class meant outpreparing most opponent, and
      only out-thinking the truly worthy. Harry Potter's thought
      <em class="calibre7">ahead</em> about battles, gambits to get or hide information,
      reacting in the face of disasters. He'd trained himself how to
      think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a novel situation Harry Potter could find a great move, a
      clever move. But he hadn't prepared one for this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter had wandered into a game half played because he'd
      tried to cheer up Draco without thinking about it and because he'd
      been so struck by the symmetry of Draco's Duel and his own
      experiences (in all respects except for the stakes) that he'd just
      blurted out his cheerful message. So, for the first time in several
      days, Harry Potter analyzed a novel position – <em class="calibre7">whether to tell
      Draco and Gregory</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter understood his mistake in making the offhand
      comment as soon as Gregory asked the question. So, he'd started to
      think a few seconds before Draco did. But he wasted those few
      seconds hoping that in in a few years he'd move past these simple
      mistakes to make more interesting and complex mistakes.
      <em class="calibre7">And</em> deciding that he didn't fault himself for having tried
      to cheer up Draco. So, once again, Harry Potter had jumped the
      starters gun when out-plotting those around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Draco didn't have to think, just remember. A
      Green-and-Silver lettered day from last year sprang instantly to
      mind. Draco recognized a mate in one. His only decision: speak or
      stay silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On a normal day Draco Malfoy would have stayed silent. Silence,
      perhaps masked by meaningless chatter, was usually the prudent
      course. Silence revealed little. But <em class="calibre7">today</em> Draco felt
      ambushed by fate and, as so often happens, a player who just
      blundered away one piece often stops thinking and plays the next
      obvious move. Or is so relieved to spot a potentially good move
      that they play first, analyze later (if at all).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But mostly Draco felt annoyed that Harry lacked the courtesy to
      keep up small talk or try to deflect the conversation while he
      thought. That insult, more than any calculation, led Draco's
      revelation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter's the Heir of Slytherin, Gregory." Gregory's eyes bugged
      out, then narrowed. Harry Potter turned, took out his wand and cast
      several wards on the door, then sat on what all three boys now
      considered his bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not the Heir. But I am Parselmouth. Draco discovered it
      actually. It's not the sort of thing I'd tell anyone, even Draco.
      That's why I was thinking. It's not that I don't trust you to keep
      my secrets. But a lot of people would react ... poorly if I told
      them. Anyway, Draco was around when it happened. To me it just
      sounded like English. But Draco couldn't understand it and I'd
      never even heard of a Parselmouth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory, more so than either of the other two boys in the room,
      was in a totally unexpected situation, so it was Draco who
      interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't really clear it up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't lie in Parseltongue. It's not quite the same as the
      serum, I think. It's like two drops, but you can stay silent. But
      if you speak, you say the truth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what happens if you say something that you don't know is a
      lie? Do you state the correct information?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, Draco. I don't think so. Almost certainly not"
      <em class="calibre7">If Parseltongue revealed truths unknown to the speaker,
      Voldemort would have certainly discovered he had an infallible
      Oracle</em>. Harry felt practically certain that Parseltongue, like
      Veritaserum, relied on the subject's state of mind. He'd decided
      this as Draco walked to his desk and took out a scroll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's experiment. I don't suppose you know many spells about
      repairing garments? No? Well, I'll tell you about three of them,
      one of which is incorrect, and then you say it in Parseltongue … if
      one of the descriptions changes, then we'll know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered the experimental protocols, even though he
      considered it a forgone conclusion. "If Gregory knows which one is
      a lie then he shouldn't be visible to me, Draco. I might be able to
      get a clue from that. It's called the Clever Hans effect..." Harry
      Potter went on to describe correct experimental protocols at some
      length, being sure to clarify points for Gregory that Draco already
      knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The experiment proved it. You couldn't <em class="calibre7">knowingly</em> lie in
      Parseltongue. Harry confirmed that he said "There is a 2/3rd
      probability that this spell works as follows," because of the
      information he knew. Once Draco revealed that <em class="calibre7">Percaxia</em>
      actually cleaned, folded and pressed clothes (and did not fix
      frayed hems, as he'd written down), then Harry could no longer
      describe it as a <em class="calibre7">twice likely as not c</em><em class="calibre7">lothess mending
      sspell,</em> which he'd been able to do earlier and caveats
      disappeared for the other two descriptions.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Later that night, staring up at the ceiling as Harry and Gregory
      slept, Draco mentally berated himself. He reviewed that day's
      mistakes, how the cascading failures piled up. He'd done well, in
      many regards. He'd seized opportunities and forged ahead. <em class="calibre7">But …
      but ….</em> Draco couldn't sleep, and rather than toss and turn and
      fight his insomnia he put his time to use and reviewed the day. He
      mentally made notes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some mistakes he'd only noticed later in the clarity of the
      night, to the sound of Gregory's snoring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy understood his biggest mistake hours earlier. In
      fact, only several heartbeats after revealing Potter's secret Draco
      realized the enormity of his mistake. Years later, after he had a
      more adult control over his emotions, <em class="calibre7">that</em> mistake would
      be the one that woke him up at night – Revealing his understanding
      instead of saying silent and <em class="calibre7">thinking things through
      first</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Like Potter had been trying to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The slim comfort Draco took was that <em class="calibre7">he'd at least carried
      on his conversation as if nothing had happened</em>. He'd avoided
      the exact same mistake Potter had been making. He hadn't stayed
      silent (or worse, gasped dramatically) to reveal his thoughts. He'd
      quickly changed the subject, and changed it well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd offered Harry an experiment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had no idea if it distracted Harry. Probably not, but
      Professor Quirrell taught <em class="calibre7">when your only hope is slim you still
      take it</em>. Draco had no illusions. Harry Potter was neither God
      nor Monster; legends had already grown around him but Potter wasn't
      omniscient, just infuriatingly clever. And, like Draco, Harry's
      youth left him prone to mistakes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco wondered if he underestimated Potter (Harry complained
      about that often enough). But he'd sometimes overestimated
      Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More so than anyone else (that he knew), Draco Malfoy had
      observed Potter up close, had seen his thought processes. He'd seen
      Harry's powers, magical and non. He'd tried, to the best of his
      ability, to sort truth from fiction about Harry Potter. Months ago,
      his intuition told him that Harry Potter defeated Voldemort. He had
      no evidence. He could think of no experiment. Draco used the old
      ways of plotting: he assembled facts, gathered information, and
      thought. He reviewed them again and again that night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Harry's <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em> was brilliant and blinding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* His knowledge of that spell was profound. He'd taught Draco;
      He'd known Draco could learn it, a fact that surprised Draco and
      would stun most Slytherins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Harry wouldn't reveal his <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em> directly. It
      contained a secret Potter made an effort to keep hidden.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* According to everyone, Harry Potter terrified a Dementor at
      Hermione's trial.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* … without even summoning a <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Granger's death drove Potter relentlessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* He clearly cared for her deeply; more than Draco, possibly
      more than anyone else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Hermione Granger came back from the dead at the same time that
      Voldemort - her presumed killer - died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Hermione Granger could destroy Dementors. She'd destroyed them
      all, at Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had listed those clues over the summer. These facts marked
      Harry Potter, his friend and rival, as the sort of person who would
      always outshine him. But also as the boy who avenged Father's
      death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't prove it. He'd probably never have proof. Harry,
      despite his boyish blunders, would never reveal the fact to anyone
      he was not completely sure of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco agonized countless hours, wondering if Potter could have
      prevented Father's death, could have been more clever. Draco didn't
      know, been afraid to ask. Been afraid of how he might act. Since
      Draco couldn't trust his own reaction to the news he could hardly
      blame Harry for being unsure. Harry would never tell him. For
      friendship, perhaps, but for his own reasons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco knew all of this. He'd pieced it together over the summer,
      along with his understanding that Father knew he was going to his
      death that June night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glanced at the cane on his desk, silver snake head placed
      so Draco could see it from his bed. The cane Father carried
      constantly, the Sigil of House Malfoy handed down across centuries.
      Draco had unlocked some of its secrets, his diary had revealed
      others. His other birthright.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cane Draco discovered that night leaning by Father's
      chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sign, sure as any letter, that Father suspected. His farewell
      to Draco. Perhaps he'd always left it at home, years ago, when he
      dealt with Voldemort. Perhaps he feared Voldemort might not
      restrain himself, might challenge his power against the weight of
      House Malfoy. Perhaps he could not conceal it, dare not risk anyone
      spotting it. <em class="calibre7">How often had he left it there? Just in
      case</em>... so his beloved Narcissa could pass it down to his
      infant son. Or maybe he'd discovered some dread secret and went
      knowingly this one time, to protect Draco. Draco didn't know. The
      game of subtleties had limits. He'd lost the summer wondering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could Potter have saved Father? In that regard, Draco felt
      comforted by his months of reflection. It seemed unlikely. Even if
      Potter had been there with the Death Eaters, it would be ludicrous
      to assume he could deal with them and Voldemort. Six hours ago
      Draco Malfoy trusted Harry Potter, mostly. If he'd been under
      Veritaserum Draco Malfoy would feel compelled to use a heavily
      footnoted definition of 'trust' that would cement his reputation
      for deviousness, terrify Hufflepuffs, and make Potter proud over
      the sheer precision and deep implications.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three hours after midnight on the first day of school, Draco
      Malfoy lay awake agonizing over the new fact (not proven, but
      probable) he'd added to his list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9"><em class="calibre7">Harry Potter chatted with Voldemort before he killed
      him.</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, with the moonlight's reflection bathing the commandeered
      room in a silvery glow, Draco's list of facts about Harry Potter
      looked alarming.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Note - This ends the prologue.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
