<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 14: More Questions Than Answers, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: More Questions Than Answers</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During his second year at Hogwarts, Harry is still concerned
      about the fate of the world, but has made significant progress:
      Hermione has obtained a phoenix and destroyed Azkaban's dementors.
      Progress toward a functional Philosopher's Stone based hospital at
      Hogwarts has stalled due to ward incompatibilities but a temporary
      solution is operational in the now-abandoned Azkaban tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprout received a cursed Hufflepuff Cup, and displayed
      uncharacteristically aggressive behavior afterwards. Moody detected
      evidence of dark magic on her but it was inconclusive. Since then,
      Moody has researched more specific spells for detecting horcrux
      effects and, as one might expect, Hermione tested positive. Harry
      thought of some potential countermeasures Voldemort could have used
      against parseltongue and obliviation and began to suspect that
      Voldemort's plan had been to pretend to lose while preparing a
      powerful and immortal host for himself who Harry would trust
      implicitly (and explicitly, given the unbreakable vow).
      Unfortunately, that same vow has prevented him from sharing his
      suspicions. Draco found the Riddle Diary, which then passed through
      a series of other people, affecting their behavior and leaving
      evidence of memory charms behind. Moody and McGonagall set up a
      test to find anyone affected and locate the artifact presumed
      responsible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna demonstrates uncanny knowledge even though she's obviously
      not a real seer. Moody has hypothesized that Defense professor
      Gilderoy Lockhart is incompetent and relying on liquid luck for his
      accomplishments. And obviously plotting something. Bellatrix is
      still at large and able to appear in public despite topping Magical
      Britain's most wanted list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry has a relatively long list of things he intends to
      investigate, including big picture items like Merlin's Interdict,
      prophecy, time-turner paradoxes, magic-technology interactions, and
      rescuing Dumbledore, as well as smaller scale things like looking
      into Ravenclaw's Diadem or whether the potion liquid luck is a real
      thing or a cover story. Magical interferences with technology are
      proving more difficult to pin down than he had hoped, so he has
      focused more strongly on learning arithmancy, which involves
      putting spells together to achieve novel functions.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. His attempt to apply epidemiological principles
      (as if a horcrux were a mere infectious disease) had not been
      particularly successful. Things had looked hopeful; the assumed
      horcrux had followed a logical path for a time. Progressing from
      Draco to other second-year Slytherins made sense. Daphne and Tracey
      were evidently best friends and where therefore frequently
      together. The progression from Daphne to Lavender made similar
      sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that was it. Harry had advised Moody to expect some other
      second year Slytherins or possibly former Dragon Army lieutenants
      to show evidence of memory charms, because the horcrux should have
      been somewhere before it passed to Draco. Harry would have bet on
      Gregory or Vincent showing symptoms. Similarly, Harry had advised
      that Lavender was most likely to have passed the horcrux to
      Parvati, Padma, Susan, or Hannah. Or possibly to another
      second-year Gryffindor. Or someone from the Sunshine Regiment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But no. Moody had polyjuiced as Madame Pomfrey and had scanned
      every student under the guise of checking for Dragon Pox. No one
      had shown a trace of legilimency, memory charms, or obliviation.
      There was no dark magic on the students or their luggage. One of
      the invisible aurors was a specialist curse-breaker who could find
      and open magically hidden compartments in seconds without leaving a
      trace. The number of banned objects he had reported shocked
      McGonagall but none of it had been worth exposing the search for.
      Moody had then run down Lockhart and scanned him, over his
      objections that he was in a hurry to catch a port-key to Australia
      (and some rambling about hunting drop-bears). Moody had reluctantly
      let him go ("Another ten minutes, and I'm sure I would've found
      evidence of something illegal he's mixed up in", Moody had
      insisted) and the aurors had returned to their normal duties.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall had then asked the house elves to search the school
      for apparently lost or hidden objects and bring them to her office.
      As a result, there was a pile next to her desk containing assorted
      textbooks, parchments, quills, a couple of gloves, and a shoe ("How
      does a student lose a shoe?" she had exclaimed). And then Moody had
      insisted that she order the elves to line up in a corridor so he
      could verify that none of them had been affected by the horcrux.
      There had been no new hint about where the horcrux had come from,
      where it had gone, nor how or even whether Professor Sprout had
      been involved. Harry sighed again. It was likely that they were
      chasing a false horcrux; that Voldemort had faked it in the form of
      an unsolvable puzzle to confuse anyone investigating him (or to
      mess with Harry, specifically).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Petunia ran across the room to hug him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, mum! Hi, Dad!" Michael had entered, carrying a large box,
      "Oh, books!" Harry ran over and peeked into the box.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall entered behind them, "Isn't it traditional to wait
      until Christmas day to exchange presents?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael shrugged, "We've always done presents at the earliest
      time it was convenient. Never seemed rational to wait longer than
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The keypunch and punch-cards I was expecting. You got me a
      microscope?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not electronic, so it should work. Hopefully it will be
      useful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, "Your new books are in the box over there. It's
      mostly wizard history and fiction. There are a few that cover
      hypotheses about the nature of magic. They might be interesting,
      but it's important to remember that their authors don't actually
      know anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic violates conservation of mass-energy and momentum,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Apparently."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any of their ideas have a solution for that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Somehow I doubt they see it as a problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I consider it a problem; physics can't be <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      wrong. It can't be a coincidence that all the experimental tests
      have backed the Standard Model. I've been wondering whether the
      solution might involve dark matter. When there are phenomena that
      appear to create mass, and 75% of the mass in the universe is
      practically undetectable, it makes sense to look for a connection.
      When we say dark matter only interacts gravitationally, maybe we
      should really be saying it only interacts gravitationally or
      magically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or if gravity is a form of magic that just happens to be
      particularly well-behaved and easy to detect, that might explain
      why general relativity and quantum theory have been so hard to
      unify."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or the missing solar neutrinos might be part of it. At some
      point, you should see if you can get a few thousand wizards to cast
      spells simultaneously to see if a neutrino detector picks up a
      difference. There's a testable prediction..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall looked questioningly at Petunia, who smiled and
      shrugged. McGonagall shrugged back, turned and walked away.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sneezed once again as he walked into the hospital
      wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madame Pomfrey looked up at him, and Harry asked, "What do you
      have for an upper respiratory inf-". The rest was cut off as Harry
      started coughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She handed him a glass of water, while motioning for him to sit.
      She then waved her wand over him and muttered a few spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pepper-up potion will clear that up quickly enough. I'll give
      you a dose; take it about half-an-hour before you plan to sleep.
      Also, you appear to be sleep deprived, so you need to make an
      effort to get more sleep. That is especially important for people
      who have had their sleep cycle lengthened. The lack of sleep makes
      you more susceptible to every illness that passes through the
      school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you for the potion. I'll make an effort to get more
      sleep."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean approached Harry as he was leaving the great hall after
      dinner, "Hey, I did that experiment; I brought a digital watch back
      and observed where it stopped working. I also brought records
      back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great, I'll get the record player stuff and a map. I think
      visualizing the places where electronics will and won't work might
      be helpful." He ran off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean was about to call after him, then shrugged and walked back
      toward the Gryffindor rooms, "He really doesn't need to make things
      this difficult."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, Harry approached the Gryffindor common
      room, when he had a thought that could be best expressed as, "Crap.
      Password." He then slowly smiled, and muttered, "It would be a
      shame not to try it." He touched his wand to his robes and
      transfigured it such that the colored parts were red and gold. He
      quickly glanced around the corner to locate the portrait that
      guarded the door and cast, 'quietus' at it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He casually walked up to the door and the woman in the portrait
      silently mouthed some kind of greeting or challenge. Harry began,
      "So this is the entrance to Gryffindor and there's a password.
      Obviously, being a Gryffindor, I know the password, and it probably
      isn't a very secure password. It might have something to do with
      phoenices or fighting Slytherins or stupid heroics or something. A
      Gryffindor password would be something like that. Or some other
      word. There are so many words, because English took lots of words
      from German and French and other languages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During this time, the two-dimensional woman had held her hands
      to her ears and strained to listen carefully, then attempted to
      clean her ears, and finally began to look annoyed. She mouthed
      something Harry didn't catch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped talking for a moment, during which he forced
      himself to look progressively more concerned. Then he asked "Why
      aren't you opening the door?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The portrait's expression changed from annoyed to confused. She
      appeared to say, "I can't hear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry forced himself to look panicked and began repeating, "Why
      won't you open the door? You have to open the door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door unlatched and the woman hurried to the side, past the
      portrait's frame. Harry walked in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean looked over, mildly surprised, "How did you get in
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I snapped my fingers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Social engineering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever. Anyway, before you ran off, I was going to tell you
      not to bother with the map. The watch worked fine until the
      carriage got to the bridge in front of the castle. Then it turned
      off and didn't come back on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, "You mean it worked on platform
      nine-point-seven-five? And on the train? It only stopped inside the
      Hogwarts wards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Clearly you were expecting something more
      complicated?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes. That contradicts previous results." Harry pulled out
      a calculator, "I couldn't get this to turn on the last time I was
      at the train platform."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy interrupted, "Why are you wearing Gryffindor robes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed a smirk and mentally canceled the
      transfiguration, then looked down at himself, "They look the same
      as usual to me." He turned to Dean, "They look like Ravenclaw robes
      to you right?" Dean nodded. Harry turned back to Percy, "Maybe
      you're under a confundus charm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cute." He gestured at the calculator, "You know that won't work
      in the castle, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and Dean answered, "Harry's been trying to figure
      out where it works and where it doesn't. But it sounds like the
      places where technology works change. Sort of like the hallways
      here; maybe you have to figure out a different map for Mondays vs.
      Fridays and everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy's expression brightened noticeably, "My father actually
      has a calculator that looks similar to that one; he said it makes
      it bearable to keep the budget for his department at the Ministry.
      He's done quite a bit of work with muggle electronics, and might
      know something about that. He'd probably also be interested in
      hearing about what you've tried so far."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That... sounds really useful. Ask him to send me an owl and we
      can start exchanging results."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy nodded then walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what did you come up with to play a record?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled an irregularly shaped wooden box out of his pouch.
      It had an open front, though its most notable feature was a
      turntable on its top surface. Harry then retrieved a car battery
      and a motor and placed them inside the box.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That looks like it's made from a desk from one of the
      classrooms", Dean observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It contains parts from several desks, actually. I imagine the
      house elves were pretty confused when they had to clean up that
      mess." While talking, Harry attached a variable resistor to the
      battery and motor using alligator clips. The turntable began
      spinning slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't exactly look like a professional setup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many professionals are there at combining magic with muggle
      technology?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair point." Dean shrugged and placed a record carefully onto
      the turntable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled a metal bar from his pouch, affixed one end to the
      box, and carefully lowered the other onto the record.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean watched expectantly, then commented, "I think you need an
      amplifier and speakers and I don't see how you're going to connect
      them to that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A speaker is basically just a cone that vibrates to cause the
      air in front of it to vibrate. Sound is just vibrating air. The
      grooves of a record cause the needle to vibrate according to the
      sounds it stores. This needle is mechanically linked little cones
      here and here; it doesn't need electronics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean stepped forward and looked carefully at the needle, "That's
      not going to be very loud."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pointed his wand at the record player, "Sonorus." A low
      pitched hum became audible. He swung his wand around to point left,
      "Ventriliquo." He cast the same pair of spells, this time pointing
      to the right. "There's a 50% chance I got the left and right
      channels correct. If you decide it's backwards, switch the sides
      when you cast it next time." He then picked up the variable
      resistor and turned the knob, speeding up the motor. The hum rose
      in pitch until it resolved into music and singing. "That sounds
      about right", Harry concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do I have to worry about maintaining a transfiguration on the
      parts or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, they're permanent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please don't try to tell me you can make transfigurations
      permanent by snapping your fingers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled, "That would be a useful skill. Actually, there's
      an advanced free transfiguration technique called shaping that lets
      you specify how the initial object turns into the final object. For
      example, you can take a sphere and make the outer layer turn into
      the left side of a rod, then make the inside turn into the right
      side of the rod. If you cut the rod in half and reverse the
      transfiguration, the left half becomes a hollow sphere and the
      right half is the part that would have been the inside. Or you can
      transfigure something into paper and cut out the pattern you need;
      that's what I did for these parts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, Fred announced loudly, "Cool, random party!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George followed up with, "The butter-beer and sweets are over
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy frowned, "Why do you two have all of that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's important to be prepared for these things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy shrugged, "It's the first night back from the break, so I
      suppose it's okay. Just don't make a habit of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Percy. We would never want to interfere with the
      monotony of the Hogwarts experience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy shook his head and hid a smile as he walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry approached Fred and George, "Hey, are you guys interested
      in helping me with a prank?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you even have to ask?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not so fast, George. It's important that we get some details
      first. We don't attach our brand to anything too mundane or
      derivative."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred nodded, "You're absolutely correct, Fred." They looked at
      Harry seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few seconds, they started laughing and simultaneously
      asked, "What do you need?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sat next to Harry at breakfast and asked, "Do you want
      to go to the quidditch match today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No more than usual, why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I feel like I should see at least one during my time at
      Hogwarts. Who knows, maybe it will be interesting. And I heard the
      Ravenclaw and Slytherin seekers deliberately ignored the snitch to
      run up the score last year. What did they ever do to fix that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know. That was a somewhat eventful day, and I kind of
      stopped following the whole thing after that. I suppose we could
      go, if you'd like, though I'd preferred if you'd chosen a nice day,
      rather than the middle of January when it looks like we'll be
      getting a blizzard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, then maybe we can teach the children of the magical
      community about sledding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed, then stopped when he realized Hermione didn't.
      "Uh... sure, we can watch a quidditch game."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry brushed the snow off a seat and sat down, "Ugh. I guess
      I'll be trying to use arithmancy to optimize the warming charm for
      the next hour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just smiled at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should probably at least pretend to be cold."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, probably."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another group of students walked over. Daphne looked at the
      seats, then at the field, and announced, "This is ridiculous. I'm
      going back inside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey added, "Yeah, me too. Hermione, you picked the worst
      possible day to watch your first quidditch game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Susan scoffed, "This isn't nearly as bad as when it's cold and
      rainy. Some people just aren't real fans."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah shrugged, "Well, Slytherin isn't playing today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, "They should really get view screens like
      Professor Quirrell used in his classes or battles. We're not going
      to be able to see much out here today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender sighed, "There has got to be a spell to fix weather
      like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked thoughtful, "I think if there were weather
      modification spells, we'd have heard about it by now. Unless
      they're covered by the Interdict of Merlin. Although, we should
      probably check the library just in case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender added, "Well, someone needs to hurry up and invent one.
      And I'm looking at you, General Chaos. Get on that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione snickered then suggested, "Maybe they have a spell to
      blow the snow away or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma answered, "If they do, I've never seen it before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded and was about to reply when Lee Jordan's
      amplified voice filled the stands, "Welcome, ladies and gentlemen,
      to today's game between the Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff house teams.
      The snitch is away and the quaffle will be released in thirty
      seconds, so find a seat if you haven't already. Neither team has
      yet been mathematically eliminated from winning the House Cup,
      though really, don't we all know which team-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall interrupted, "Mr. Jordan, what have I told you about
      showing favoritism in your announcing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keep it subtle rather than blatant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm quite sure I never said that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's what I heard. Anyway, the quaffle is in the air, and
      Ravenclaw appears to have possession, based on the yellow and blue
      blurs racing toward the Hufflepuff goal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the game continued, Harry pondered why they were here. It was
      out of character for Hermione, so hilariously out of character that
      no one attempting to model Hermione's behavior would have made such
      a mistake. The obvious answer was that Hermione/Voldemort was
      plotting something and needed Harry to be otherwise occupied. No,
      that wasn't it; it would have been easier to convince him to spend
      the day in his office (or in the library if the plot was happening
      in his office). A better answer was that she wanted a public alibi.
      Though anyone who both knew Hermione and knew about time-turners
      would be <em class="calibre7">more</em> suspicious of her after learning that her
      alibi involved a quidditch game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee's voice sounded again, "Due to the poor weather and
      visibility, and general weakness of character, the members of both
      teams have elected to end the game after the first team reaches 100
      points, breaking centuries of wizarding tradition, causing the
      quidditch players of prior eras to spin in their graves and
      bringing dishonor to Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff for the next three
      generations-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall interrupted, "Mr. Jordan, no one is dishonored over a
      friendly school game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? You can say that with a straight face?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least tell them the real reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ugh, fine. The <em class="calibre7">official</em> story is that someone (who
      we're expected to believe is not working for either team) cast a
      spell to locate the snitch and found it to be immobile on the
      ground outside the stadium. An attempt to accio it failed, implying
      that it's frozen to the ground. Of course, the casual use of two
      spells which are (for obvious reasons) banned for quidditch
      matches, raises disturbing questions. I assure you all that this
      announcer-slash-quidditch-investigative-reporter will be looking
      into who is casting these spells during games, and what
      surreptitious methods they're using to communicate that information
      to whichever seeker is paying the largest bribes-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please spread conspiracy theories on your own time, Mr.
      Jordan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, believe me, I will-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And refrain from doing so during games. Especially when you
      heard me cast the detection spell after a request to do so by both
      seekers. And you are aware that there are wards preventing cheating
      by both the players and spectators."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You heard it here first, folks: the scandal goes all the way to
      the top!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, Lee announced, "Yay! The game is finally over!
      Neither team actually 'wins' because they were playing by crazy
      definitely-not-quidditch rules, but we all win because we can go
      back inside!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione asked the group, "Hey, does anyone feel like walking
      around the lake?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were several objections of the "frostbite and hypothermia
      sound unpleasant" variety, after which Hermione announced that she
      hadn't spent enough time outside recently and was going anyway. The
      others went back to the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once inside, Ron approached and quietly said, "Remember
      Operation Firebolt." He quickly walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The others looked at each other questioningly. Lavender
      answered, "Secret Gryffindor business. You don't need to know." She
      and Parvati left before anyone could ask a follow-up question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, "I should probably look into that, but I'm
      way behind on my to-do list for today. And I have a feeling that I
      really don't want to know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Harry walked to his office, he tried to think of an excuse
      he could give for an auror to follow Hermione without raising
      suspicions. By the time he reached the office, he had eliminated
      most of the options he'd considered. He was about to sit down, when
      he jumped back suddenly and pulled out a communications mirror,
      "Hey, Mad-Eye, I think someone tampered with my office. When you
      get a chance-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, don't touch anything. In fact, wait outside. I'll be
      there in a few minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An hour or two later, Moody had scanned nearly everything in the
      office for magical traces without finding anything suspicious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody's head snapped up and to the side as he exclaimed, "What
      the fuck?" Harry followed his gaze to... an ordinary looking area
      of the ceiling. Meanwhile, Moody pulled a small object out of his
      robes, which quickly expanded into a broom. He flew up the stairs
      and out of the tower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled a broom out of his pouch and followed, only to see
      Moody staring out into the dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit!", Moody exclaimed. He spun around and raced toward the
      astronomy tower. Harry began to follow until Moody shouted back,
      "Go back inside."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody sighed, "I've officially gotten old. There was a time I
      would have dropped both of them and damn the consequences. Now I'm
      all worried about putting students in danger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall frowned, "Feeling a sense of responsibility is not a
      bad thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones commented, "I'm just surprised you didn't have a fast
      enough broom to intercept them. Normally, you're prepared for
      things like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody scoffed, "I have one of the fastest racing brooms you can
      get. Unfortunately, those smugglers had a dragon pulling them. If
      there were a broom that could intercept a dragon, I would own
      one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A dragon! Where the hell did a dragon come from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall sighed, "Alastor caught Lavender Brown, Parvati
      Patil, and Ronald Weasley at the astronomy tower. I interviewed
      them and from what I've put together, the grounds keeper, Hagrid,
      raised it from an egg. Weasley's older brother works at a dragon
      preserve, and sent some of his co-workers to take the dragon
      somewhere where it will be cared for. Hagrid's on his way
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody nodded, "Good. I have some veritaserum. We can do a proper
      interrogation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall asked, "Are you sure that's strictly necessary?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry added, "I agree."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones nodded as well, "After the last time we interviewed that
      man, truth serum can only speed things up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a knock at the door, and McGonagall called, "Come in,
      Hagrid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody was ready with a glass of water with two drops of
      veritaserum dissolved in it. Hagrid looked around at the others,
      then reluctantly drank it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where did the dragon come from?" Moody began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone I met at Hogsmeade had a dragon egg he was trying to
      find a home for. I'd always wanted a dragon, so it worked out for
      both of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry asked, "Is it common for people to give away dragon
      eggs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones answered, "No, it's utterly ridiculous. Dragons are
      carefully regulated; every dragon in Britain should be registered.
      Even if someone has a permit to raise them, they are extremely
      expensive. And they're not common on the black market because it's
      difficult to hatch the eggs and there's nowhere to hide an adult
      dragon. So Mr. Hagrid, what did you pay for that egg?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't pay. He gave it to me... Though now that I think about
      it, he asked me a lot of questions I probably shouldn't have
      answered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such as?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'd recently picked up something from Gringotts for
      Dumbledore. He asked about that." Hagrid paused, then looked over
      at Harry, "He also asked some things about Harry. I don't remember
      exactly what, but I hadn't met him yet and couldn't really say
      much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones looked thoughtful, "I'd assume that was Voldemort. Or a
      death eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, "Could be. My guess would be polyjuiced Lucius. Or
      someone working for Lucius; maybe someone from the Daily
      Prophet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones turned back to Hagrid, "And you thought you could actually
      get away with raising a dragon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really wanted one, so I brought it back here. I got some
      books on dragon care., and it seemed doable enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a sudden thought, "Auror Moody said dragons are faster
      than any broom. How fast is a dragon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid appeared to relax a little, "They can get going pretty
      fast in level flight, but a dragon pulling out of a powered dive
      can chase down nearly anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued, "Including unicorns?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid flinched, "It's happened once that I'm aware of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones narrowed her eyes, "Here? Earlier this year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. I thought I was feeding it enough, but it decided to
      hunt. And there are so many unicorns out there now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall asked, "And that's why you decided to relocate
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. Not enough for it to eat here, and not enough room for
      it, not without getting discovered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody grunted and asked, "What other dangerous animals do you
      have out there that no one else knows about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose that depends on what you mean by 'dangerous'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry clarified, "Have you brought anything alive onto the
      Hogwarts grounds without explicit permission?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid sighed, "Well there's the acromantulas. And my brother,
      Grawp. I'm pretty sure Dumbledore knew he was living out there, but
      he never actually said it was okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Acromantulas!", exclaimed several people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you get an acromantula past the wards?", Moody
      demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know exactly. Dippet was headmaster at the time, and I
      don't think he was as good as Dumbledore at reading the wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall replied, "I can believe that. I don't think I can
      sense a tenth of what Dumbledore could from the wards. But Hagrid,
      <em class="calibre7">why</em> would you bring acromantulas here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was trying to keep him safe. Wizards tend to be... unfriendly
      to everyone who's different or who they don't understand. Believe
      me, I've seen it closer than I'd have liked. You also usually tend
      to kill things when they're labeled 'dangerous creatures'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody stared at him, "Acromantulas eat people when they get the
      opportunity. What's your definition of dangerous?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Acromantulas are basically people with extra legs. They're
      smart; they can even learn English. Sure, they eat other animals
      for food, but so do people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how many are there now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know exactly. Probably hundreds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody just shook his head. Bones mumbled, "You moron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall asked, "Is there anything else we should know? Or
      that you think we'd want to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, I don't think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The floo lit up, and Bones stated, "An auror is coming to take
      you to a detainment room until we decide what to do with you. Or in
      case we have follow-up questions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An auror stepped into the room and led Hagrid back out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spoke first, "How did Hagrid ever get a job here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall answered, "He knows magical creatures really well.
      And he's a good man. He was an ally during the wizarding war and a
      friend of both myself and Dumbledore. And your parents. He's just
      made some mistakes. He doesn't have the best judgment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he needs someone with at least a hint of common sense to
      babysit him whenever he's on the grounds. Or better,
      everywhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody chuckled, "Who should we get to clean out the
      acromantulas? There are a few rookie aurors who could use some
      practical experience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, "Is it true that they're sentient?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody shrugged, "They're pretty smart for magical creatures I
      suppose. I've never heard one talk and I don't think they have
      near-human intelligence though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I'd prefer to relocate them somewhere where they aren't a
      threat to anyone. Where are they originally from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall replied, "South America, I believe. I think most of
      them live in a nature preserve in Brazil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we could transfer them there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones answered, "We could probably arrange that with the
      Brazilians. Safely moving hundreds of giant, hostile spiders, on
      the other hand, sounds... tedious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked, "Luckily there's a world-famous expert in
      handling dangerous creatures right here at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody slowly smiled, "That's something I want to see. Oh, tell
      him he can write his next book about it, maybe 'Arresting
      Acromantulas'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry replied, "Or 'Sequestering Spiders'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Wrestling Web-builders'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Arachnid Attacks'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones rolled her eyes, "Since we're apparently done with the
      meeting part of this meeting, I'm going. Minerva, let me know when
      you decide what you want to do with Hagrid. Or his brother. I
      consider this a Hogwarts matter, so I'll defer to your
      judgment."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry left the meeting in deep thought. Hagrid and the dragon
      were responsible for the death of the unicorn, which they had
      previously attributed to a dark wizard. Because he had considered
      the unicorn to be evidence that Voldemort was at Hogwarts, that
      probability was now necessarily lower, so he had to reevaluate the
      evidence and determine whether it was still rational to believe in
      Voldemort's continued presence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The explosion in the potions class could have been an evil plot,
      but it could have also been an accident (it was astounding how some
      students could manage to blow up even the safest potions) or a
      reckless attempt to make the potions class more exciting, producing
      a larger bang than expected. Students had recently cast
      'obliviate', but it was possible that students were learning it and
      using it on each other to avoid being caught or punished for
      whatever else they were doing. Any number of students had a motive
      for the spider-based attack on Jugson and Sloper. Memory charms had
      been used then as well, but there was apparently a learning curve
      to reading the wards. It was possible that the spell had triggered
      the wards, but McGonagall hadn't yet known enough to be aware of
      it. Harry made a note to ask her about it</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprout was harder to explain, but there were too many unknowns
      to infer very much. The detection of 'dark magic' had raised more
      questions than answers about what a trace of dark magic was or what
      it meant. The memories Moody had read from Draco were the best
      evidence of Voldemort, but pointed to an original-recipe horcrux,
      not a contemporary immortal Voldemort horcrux. Memory charms by a
      reasonably well informed or creative individual could have also
      sufficed. The Malfoy family still had enemies, and an apparent
      Voldemort possession, if made public, could ensure that Draco would
      never consolidate much political power by raising suspicion that he
      was a death eater or Voldemort himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort- just because it was possible that one might use a
      horcrux network to escape obliviation and capture didn't mean
      Voldemort had that ability. Voldemort's final hours could have been
      a diabolical plan disguised by pretending to lose, but it also
      could have been a real defeat. He could have miscalculated, been
      overconfident. Everyone makes mistakes; it's not like he had some
      supernatural rationality power. He wasn't some kind of evil god;
      just a wizard smarter, more resourceful, and more powerful than
      most.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Hermione had left her room and started interacting with
      people again. She apparently seemed fine to everyone, despite the
      sudden and inexplicable interest in quidditch. Maybe she'd just
      been homesick or something all along and spending some time at home
      had fixed everything. In retrospect, it was possible Harry had been
      overly paranoid. He had called for Moody to search his office
      twice, and both times had been false alarms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody had told Harry about a potion called Bahl's Stupifaction,
      which produced a confundus-like effect causing people to make
      stupid decisions for an extended time, typically resulting in
      self-sabotage of whatever they were attempting. It had been a long
      shot, but apparently there had been a chance that Voldemort had
      been exposed to it while performing his resurrection ritual. Which
      made his defeat more believable. Bahl's Stupifaction- Harry's
      current hypothesis was that it was like the opposite of liquid luck
      and both potions somehow used information from the future; one
      potion caused people to make decisions which turned out to be
      optimal and the other caused maximally suboptimal decisions. He
      really needed to find some liquid luck to test. For someone smart,
      it could be an instant victory condition; it could allow one to
      skip over hours of trial and error to produce workable solutions to
      any number of problems. He'd have to find a subtle way to discuss
      it with Lockhart. Or maybe just let Moody read his mind.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
