<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 20: Investigation, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20: Investigation</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During his second year at Hogwarts, Harry is still concerned
      about the fate of the world and, though Hermione has obtained a
      phoenix and destroyed Azkaban's dementors, work on the
      Philosopher's Stone based hospital at Hogwarts has stalled due to
      ward incompatibilities and the temporary hospital in Azkaban tower
      has been shut down after being compromised by Bellatrix. Many
      aurors were killed or fatally injured and are in
      transfiguration-based stasis awaiting treatment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody detected evidence of horcrux possession on Hermione and
      probably on Sprout. Draco and other students demonstrated unusual
      behavior and were later found to have been memory charmed. Harry
      thought of potential countermeasures Voldemort could have used
      against parseltongue and obliviation and suspects that Voldemort
      survived, that his plan had been to pretend to lose while preparing
      a powerful and immortal host for himself who Harry would trust
      implicitly (and explicitly, given the unbreakable vow).
      Unfortunately, that same vow prevented Harry from sharing his
      suspicions, until Moody revealed that he'd been thinking similar
      things. Thus far, efforts to locate a horcrux at Hogwarts have been
      unsuccessful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna demonstrates uncanny knowledge even though she's obviously
      not a real seer. Moody has hypothesized that Defense professor
      Gilderoy Lockhart is incompetent and relying on liquid luck for his
      accomplishments. And obviously plotting something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry has a relatively long list of things he intends to
      investigate, including big picture items like Merlin's Interdict,
      prophecy, time-turner paradoxes, magic-technology interactions, and
      rescuing Dumbledore, as well as smaller scale things like looking
      into Ravenclaw's Diadem or whether the potion liquid luck is a real
      thing or a cover story. Magical interferences with technology are
      proving more difficult to pin down than he had hoped, so he has
      focused more strongly on learning arithmancy, which involves
      putting spells together to achieve novel functions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Public opinion is divided on Harry's recent use of Voldemort
      role-play to frighten students, and a group of Hufflepuffs are out
      after curfew...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"You all looked at the right person for entirely the wrong
      reasons. After I heard rumors of one Ravenclaw facing down five
      older Slytherins, I came to the conclusion that Harry Potter would
      be my most dangerous student. You're thinking that I've come up
      with a wrong answer, aren't you, Mr. Potter? You will learn to
      expect better of me. Mr. Potter, all things have their accustomed
      uses. Give me ten unaccustomed uses of objects in this room for
      combat!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">For a moment Harry was rendered speechless by the sheer, raw
      shock of having been understood.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And then the ideas started to pour out.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"There are desks which are heavy enough to be fatal if
      dropped from a great height. There are chairs with metal legs that
      could impale someone if driven hard enough. The air in this
      classroom would be deadly by its absence, since people die in
      vacuum, and it can serve as a carrier for poison gases. The floor
      can be removed to create a spike pit to fall into, the ceiling can
      be collapsed on someone, the walls can serve as raw material for
      Transfiguration into any number of deadly things - knives,
      say."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"That's six. But surely you're scraping the bottom of the
      barrel now?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I haven't even started! Just look at all the people! Having
      a Gryffindor attack the enemy is an ordinary use, of course but
      their blood can also be used to drown someone. Ravenclaws are known
      for their brains, but their internal organs could be sold on the
      black market for enough money to hire an assassin. Slytherins
      aren't just useful as assassins, they can also be thrown at
      sufficient velocity to crush an enemy. And Hufflepuffs, in addition
      to being hard workers, also contain bones that can be removed,
      sharpened, and used to stab someone."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">By now the rest of the class was staring at Harry in some
      horror. Even the Slytherins looked shocked.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"That's ten, though I'm being generous in counting the
      Ravenclaw one. Now, for extra credit, one Quirrell point for each
      use of objects in this room which you have not yet named."
      Professor Quirrell favored Harry with a companionable smile. "The
      rest of your class thinks you are in trouble now, since you've
      named everything except the targets and you have no idea what may
      be done with those."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Bah! I've named all the people, but not my robes, which can
      be used to suffocate an enemy if wrapped around their head enough
      times, or Hermione Granger's robes, which can be torn into strips
      and tied into a rope and used to hang someone, or Draco Malfoy's
      robes, which can be used to start a fire. My wand can be pushed
      into an enemy's brain through their eye socket" and someone made a
      horrified, strangling sound. "My wristwatch could suffocate someone
      if jammed down their throat -"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Five points, and enough."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Hmph," Harry said. "Ten Quirrell points to one House point,
      right? You should have let me keep going until I'd won the House
      Cup, I haven't even started yet on the unaccustomed uses of
      everything I've got in my pockets" or the mokeskin pouch itself and
      he couldn't talk about the Time-Turner or the invisibility cloak
      but there had to be something he could say about those red
      spheres...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Enough, Mr. Potter. Well, do you all think you understand
      what makes Mr. Potter the most dangerous student in the classroom?
      Say it out loud, please. Terry Boot, what makes your dorm-mate
      dangerous?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Ah... um... he's creative?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Wrong! " bellowed Professor Quirrell, and his fist came
      down sharply on his desk with an amplified sound that made everyone
      jump. "All of Mr. Potter's ideas were worse than useless!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Harry started in surprise.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Remove the floor to create a spike trap? Ridiculous! In
      combat you do not have that sort of preparation time and if you did
      there would be a hundred better uses! Transfigure material from the
      walls? Mr. Potter cannot perform Transfiguration! Mr. Potter had
      exactly one idea which he could use immediately, right now, without
      extensive preparation or a cooperative enemy or magic he does not
      know. That idea was to jam his wand through his enemy's eye socket.
      Which would be more likely to break his wand than kill his
      opponent! In short, Mr. Potter, I'm afraid that your proposals were
      uniformly awful."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"What?" Harry said indignantly. "You asked for unusual
      ideas, not practical ones! I was thinking outside the box! How
      would you use something in this classroom to kill
      someone?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Professor Quirrell's expression was disapproving, but there
      were smile crinkles around his eyes. "Mr. Potter, I never said you
      were to kill. There is a time and a place for taking your enemy
      alive, and inside a Hogwarts classroom is usually one of those
      places. But to answer your question, hit them on the neck with the
      edge of a chair."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There was some laughter from the Slytherins, but they were
      laughing with Harry, not at him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Everyone else was looking rather horrified.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"But Mr. Potter has now demonstrated why he is the most
      dangerous student in the classroom. I asked for unaccustomed uses
      of items in this room for combat. Mr. Potter could have suggested
      using a desk to block a curse, or using a chair to trip an oncoming
      enemy, or wrapping cloth around his arm to create an improvised
      shield. Instead, every single use that Mr. Potter named was
      offensive rather than defensive, and either fatal or potentially
      fatal."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What? Wait, that couldn't be true... Harry had a sudden
      sense of vertigo as he tried to remember what exactly he'd
      suggested, surely there had to be a counterexample...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"And that," Professor Quirrell said, "is why Mr. Potter's
      ideas were so strange and useless - because he had to reach far
      into the impractical in order to meet his standard of killing the
      enemy. To him, any idea which fell short of that was not worth
      considering. This reflects a quality that we might call intent to
      kill. I have it. Harry Potter has it, which is how he could stare
      down five older Slytherins. Draco Malfoy does not have it, not yet.
      Mr. Malfoy would hardly shrink from talk of ordinary murder, but
      even he was shocked - yes you were Mr. Malfoy, I was watching your
      face - when Mr. Potter described how to use his classmates' bodies
      as raw material. There are censors inside your mind which make you
      flinch away from thoughts like that. Mr. Potter thinks purely of
      killing the enemy, he will grasp at any means to do so, he does not
      flinch, his censors are off. Even though his youthful genius is so
      undisciplined and impractical as to be useless, his intent to kill
      makes Harry Potter the Most Dangerous Student in the Classroom. One
      final point to him - no, let us make that a point to Ravenclaw -
      for this indispensable requisite of a true fighting
      wizard."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his eyes and saw a glowing white cat floating above
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... I'm in the second floor corridor nearest the Hufflepuff
      common room, about halfway to the History of Magic classroom.
      There's something here you should see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at his watch: 2:30AM. That couldn't be a good
      sign.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly got dressed and headed out. The walk gave him
      ample time to relive the dream. He could only conclude that despite
      Voldemort and Bellatrix on the loose, his subconscious had found
      the time to obsess about his own potential as a threat. That
      couldn't be a good sign.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Some time earlier...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva! Headmistress McGonagall! Please wake up, it's an
      emergency! Come to the Hufflepuff common room as soon as
      possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She opened her eyes in time to see Sprout's patronus fade
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, as she neared the room, Sprout called out
      "This way", and started climbing a staircase. McGonagall rushed to
      catch up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Six of my students are missing", Sprout announced. "As soon as
      I was informed, I asked the prefects to help me start a search. We
      haven't found them, but you need to see this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Written on the wall in large red letters was the message:
      <em class="calibre7">"The Chamber of Secrets has been opened. Enemies of the heir,
      beware."</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Even earlier...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric cast a light from the end of his wand but kept it
      horizontal, ready to cast a curse if necessary, as he strode
      forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other students held their breath and tried not to make a
      sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric stopped. The door to the classroom on his left was wide
      open. He listened for a few seconds, then took a step into the
      room, quickly taking a dueling stance and sweeping his wand around
      the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He promptly collapsed backwards into the hallway, his eyes open
      but unfocused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most of the others screamed as they felt the magical explosion.
      Someone ran forward and called out, "He's not breathing!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some began to retreat, while others froze in place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They heard something moving inside the room and instantly fell
      silent and raised their wands.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall sighed, "Keep searching for the students. I'll call
      Filius to help me find out what caused this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprout asked, "I know Albus is officially missing, but I don't
      suppose there's any chance you could get him an emergency
      message?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose there's some possibility he set up a spell to bring
      him to Hogwarts when he's truly needed, but if there is such a
      spell or a way that I could trigger it, I don't know of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall then sent her patronus to summon Flitwick, Lockhart,
      and Harry, and Moody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick arrived first, and McGonagall told him about the
      missing students and message. He began using his wand to scan the
      text and surrounding area.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry overheard part of the explanation while walking down the
      hall and immediately activated his time-turner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody announced, "I can't believe you called Lockhart before
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall turned to see Moody and Harry step around a corner,
      "He is a professor at this school. And may have something useful to
      contribute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luckily, Harry called me six hours ago. So I've had twelve
      hours to investigate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Time turners don't work like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I kept going back to the moment after Harry called me and
      searching in different directions. But it was apparently too late.
      Both the basilisk and its master were already gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry interrupted, "Let's start at the beginning." He sighed,
      "They were all dead when I arrived. I don't know for how long, but
      they were still warm-ish. I called Moody, then six of his
      time-turned selves appeared and examined the bodies. Then all of
      the Moodys searched while I cooled the bodies and worked on
      transfiguring them. I don't know whether they can be revived or how
      much brain damage they'll have if I do, but I have to try.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The first Moody arrived maybe ten minutes later and I explained
      the situation. He scanned the message on the wall, helped me
      transfigure the rest of the bodies, then time turned back. We've
      been in the library since then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody explained, "They had no visible injuries. It looked like
      they'd been hit by killing curses. But you and I have tested the
      wards that tell you when unforgivables and memory charms are cast.
      We couldn't test the wards for death or serious injury, and
      apparently you're not getting those notifications, so we'll have to
      work on that later. Anyway, we researched other spells that could
      mimic the effect of a killing curse but would be less likely to be
      detected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry added, "A basilisk is most likely. I think their eyes emit
      something like an extremely low powered killing curse in all
      directions, which can be blocked by essentially anything opaque. So
      it only kills with a direct hit to someone's central nervous system
      which, in practice means that someone has to look at its eyes such
      that the curse hits their retina-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody interrupted, "However it works, looking at basilisk eyes
      kills, and looks enough like a killing curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued, "Also, it fits with the Heir of Slytherin
      message because the parselmouth connection. We should probably
      check Slytherin's Chamber of Secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both stared at him, Moody asked, "You know where it is?",
      while McGonagall exclaimed, "Mr. Potter! You promised you'd report
      that if you found it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It kind of slipped my mind with everything else that happened
      that night... there was an entrance in the dungeons, but I don't
      remember where. There's another entrance via a tunnel that opens in
      the graveyard near Hogsmead. That should be easy enough to
      find..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A few hours later, they emerged from the tunnels into a closet
      in an unused fifth floor classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That place is a complete maze. We'll never be able to find
      anything down there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "I'll try to find an optimal maze navigation
      algorithm and we can try again. Or maybe someone can find a way to
      modify the map to plot the tunnels; I believe that's what Voldemort
      was using it for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody warded the entrance so McGonagall would be notified if
      anyone approached it, and they returned to area near the Hufflepuff
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the way, Lockhart intercepted them, smiling brightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall called angrily, "Professor Lockhart, where have you
      been? We had a situation and couldn't reach you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was out of the castle. It took some time for me to get
      back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody stared Lockhart down and demanded, "Where exactly have you
      been for the past 8 hours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brazil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall queried, "The Acromantulas?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could say that I didn't have enough time to transport them
      all the other day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody continued, "Anyone who can verify?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had the portkeys made a few days ago, and no one was with me
      when I made the trips, though I suppose there were a few ladies at
      the bar who'd remember me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Names?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't exactly take attendance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Name of the bar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could possibly find it again..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody grinned dangerously, "So you have no alibi."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My contract doesn't say anything about being in Hogwarts castle
      at night or having my movements restricted in any way. It says I
      must be present for my classes, offices hours, and any
      extra-curricular activities I sponsor. And anyway, I was doing my
      best to avoid the defense position curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've read up on what's happened to previous professors. Many
      times their contracts were not renewed due to incompetence,
      sometimes resulting in their own injury or injured students. Of
      course I don't have anything to worry about there." He smiled at
      Moody, who scowled back. "And I don't think I have to tell you
      about the scandals many of the others get into. Therefore, I've
      precommitted to spending as much time as possible outside the
      castle. Can't get into trouble here if I'm there, can I?" He
      stumbled, caught himself, and attempted to lean against the wall in
      a casual-looking pose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall frowned, "Are you drunk?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I didn't think it was a good idea to apparate on the way
      here if that's what you mean." He made a quick exit, which was, of
      course, totally dignified and not influenced at all by the angry
      look McGonagall was giving him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry found himself confused. He'd ignored most of the
      conversation, having found the topic boring, but something about
      what Lockhart had said felt significant. He'd need to keep thinking
      about it. But dealing with this year's defense professor wasn't
      particularly high on his priority list. Hopefully Headmistress
      McGonagall could handle it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart shook his head as he walked back to his room, thinking
      about how that conversation could have gone better. He stopped when
      he noticed a student whose name he couldn't recall waiting outside
      his room. "It's after curfew. You should be in your house's common
      area or room or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I needed to talk to you. I... recently acquired this artifact
      that I believe may be valuable and historic. Do you have a way to
      find out if it's real?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart continued walking forward, "Oh. That is interesting.
      Let me see that..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody practically spat, "How can you let that man work
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall shrugged, "He may be a poor role model, but we need
      defense professors, and he was the only competent candidate who
      applied for this year." She glanced at Harry, "and at least he
      wasn't the one pretending to be Voldemort at dinner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody turned to Harry and narrowed his eyes, "I swear you've
      gotten stupider since last year. I'm almost not even surprised
      after you picked a pointless fight with Lockhart and hid your
      suspicions about Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall looked confused, "What about Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody grunted, "That she's possessed by Voldie." McGonagall
      gasped. Moody turned back to Harry, "Actually, it bothers me less
      that you tried to hide information that you considered sensitive
      than that you thought I wouldn't figure that out for myself. It's
      like you don't even know me." He turned back to McGonagall, "Yeah,
      that's why we haven't been inviting her to our meetings like we
      were earlier this year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall frowned, "I had been wondering about that. But...
      really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned and responded to Moody, "It's more likely that you
      only notice whether people exceed or fall short of your
      expectations and that your expectations for me have significantly
      increased since last year. If your expectations are tuned
      accurately, I should surprise you in positive and negative ways
      about equally often."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody looked at Harry thoughtfully for a moment, "Well, you're
      right about one thing: my expectations for first year students can
      only increase." He leveled his wand at Harry, "anyway... finite
      incantatem... polyfluis reverso... nullus confundio." He continued
      casting, checking for horcrux possession and other things Harry
      didn't recognize.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes, "I'm me and I'm not under any spells. I
      think I would've known. And I don't feel any different now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you wouldn't know. You'd probably be the last to notice.
      And now I suspect you don't even have a plan for what to do
      next."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "I'll have to think about it."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat in his office, thinking. He was reasonably certain
      Moody was wrong, but decided it would still be prudent to check his
      office for anything suspicious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He emptied the contents of his pouch onto the desk. He lifted
      his wand and cast a confundus detection charm at one of his
      textbooks. Negative result. He moved on to another and
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later he stopped and stepped back, looking around at
      the shelves and back at the pile of objects on the desk. "This is
      going to take forever. I need a faster way to do this."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in, Harry", Flitwick called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, professor. I'm trying to charm something to detect
      confundus charms, to turn red if it touches something charmed with
      a confundus and green if it touches something without a
      confundus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick frowned, "That's a relatively straightforward
      application of arithmancy. I'm surprised you're having an
      issue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed and handed him a thin wooden rod, resembling a
      two-foot long wand, "That seems to be a popular opinion
      recently."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick inspected the wand with his own, "The charms on this
      will do exactly what you described."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and opened his pouch, placing his arithmancy
      textbook, a can of comed-tea, a notebook, and the dueling target on
      a desk. "Then try it on these things and compare the results with
      your own detection charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick briefly frowned, then stepped forward. "There's a
      confundus on the comed-tea, as we already knew. Have you been
      playing with that again? The other objects are clean." He then
      touched the objects with the detection-wand. "Green, red, green,
      and... red? Oh. That's odd."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. That's the result I've been getting. Do you have any idea
      what could do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick silently cast a series of analytic charms at the
      dueling target, then at the detection-wand. "Has anything else
      produced that result?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it hasn't turned red for anything but the comed-tea and
      dueling target."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, this is exciting! No one's found a problem with the
      standard analytic charms in centuries. We should figure out exactly
      what triggers the false result with the analytic charm on a stick.
      Lots of people will be interested to know about it. Especially if
      we can find a case where it also affects the charm when cast
      directly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have another hypothesis. Can you put the other confundus
      analysis charms on that rod? To show what a confundus is
      doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's more complicated than that..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you check whether there's a confundus that does one
      specific thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. What are you thinking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Check if there's a confundus that causes people who cast a
      confundus detection charm to think the result was negative."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick stared at Harry for a moment, "That's an interesting
      idea." He silently cast spells at the detection-wand for a moment,
      then touched the dueling target. The rod turned purple. Flitwick
      looked up at Harry, surprised, "You were right!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, "I'm going to call Headmistress McGonagall. She
      needs to see this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's an interesting use of arithmancy, but I don't know that
      it's worth her time..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trust me, she'll want to see this. I'll have her meet us in the
      defense classroom." He walked out, briefly turning back to make
      sure Flitwick was following.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A short time later, Harry and Flitwick met McGonagall and Moody
      in the defense classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody noted, "It looks like Lockhart's already left for the
      day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall asked, "What is it Professor Flitwick, Mr.
      Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick looked over to Harry. Harry began, "This dueling target
      has a confundus charm on it-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody quickly cast an analytic charm and interrupted, "No, it
      doesn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One effect of the charm is to fool people who cast analytic
      charms at it into thinking there's no confundus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody nodded slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall said, "That's... disturbing. Anything could be
      charmed and no one would ever know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick elaborated, "You can find them if you charm an object
      to do the detection for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody looked around, then turned back toward Harry, "A nearly
      undetectable curse on a dueling target. So this it then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, "I'm pretty sure. I suspect the other targets are
      the same, but we should check. They're held in the ceiling
      somehow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick gestured his wand at the ceiling, opening it. He cast a
      series of spells at a roll of parchment. The parchment exploded
      into shreds which flew out in all directions, collided with every
      object in the room, then reflected back and formed a scale model of
      the room, mostly green, but with red spheres at the ceiling. "All
      of the dueling targets, and only the dueling targets", Flitwick
      concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry commented, "I'm going to need the details on how you did
      that. Some of those spells should help with another project-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall interrupted, "What exactly does this mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody turned to McGonagall, "Where did those targets come
      from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... don't recall. They still have internal magic, so they
      can't be more than a few years old."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, "My previous research hinted that they may
      be able to absorb magic from Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody chuckled softly, "This is definitely it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall repeated, "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody smirked, "no matter how you change classrooms or revise
      syllibi or rename classes, someone's going to teach dueling or
      defense skills in some form. And that person's classroom is stocked
      with dueling targets. Apparently not regular dueling targets, but
      mysterious confundus-charmed dueling targets that no one remembers
      ordering. And let me guess, Harry- you've been carrying one of them
      around all year- for some kind of research?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down and nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody chuckled again, "Well, I'm taking credit for ending the
      Hogwarts defense curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall and Flitwick exchanged a surprised glance. Harry just
      nodded again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody elaborated, "I cast a confundus breaking charm on Harry
      and a few hours later he's discovered a decades-old confundus curse
      that Dumbledore couldn't solve. I'm taking credit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "Yeah, all things considered, I really should have
      seen this coming earlier. The way the defense curse reliably
      results in the dismissal of every professor within the year has
      similarities to the way comed-tea reliably results in-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall interrupted, "So how do we break the curse? Is there
      a way to remove the protective confundus to see what else it's
      doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody replied, "I'd guess it's lowering people's inhibitions
      until they do dumb things. That would explain why your defense
      professors end their careers in diverse ways that were consistent
      enough with their personalities that no one was ever totally sure
      the curse existed. And I don't think we should break it until after
      we get Voldemort out or he might cast something harder to detect.
      And I don't think we should tell Lockhart, or anyone else about
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall scowled, "I know you don't like Lockhart, but you're
      asking me to allow a teacher to get hurt. Or worse, hurt
      students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can regularly cast nullio cunfundus at him. He'll be fine.
      And your students are exactly as safe as they were the last time I
      told you to fire Lockhart; nothing has changed. Anyway, in the mean
      time, we should check you office and Harry's office for anything
      else like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sometime later, two additional confunded objects were
      discovered, in the Headmistress' office. One was apparently a
      section of the wall that was difficult to look at directly but
      otherwise seemed unremarkable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody closed his human eye, pointed his wand in the appropriate
      direction and cast nullio confundus about twenty times at slightly
      different points. He announced, "I got it!" He then canceled a
      disillusionment spell and a small piece of parchment became
      visible, still stuck to the wall. He walked over and cast a series
      of analytic charms, then set it on fire. After it burned completely
      and he had vanished the ashes, he informed the others, "It was an
      espionage device. Transmits images and sound somewhere else. It was
      a good one too, no way to trace who was watching, as if we didn't
      already know. Apparently he had to use different way to spy on us
      after we stopped inviting the girl to meetings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other confunded object was a small fiddly thing with golden
      wibblers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody frowned, "Do you remember where that came from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus made it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed softly. When the others looked at him, he quickly
      explained, "First, it amuses me that Dumbledore had known about
      this effect, but used it as a prank and apparently never considered
      weaponizing it. And second, confunding an object to influence your
      opponents into defeating themselves is certainly an unusual use of
      an object in combat. It's certainly something I didn't know could
      be done with a dueling target last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody stared at Harry for a moment, "Do you have a workable plan
      to get Voldie yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have... most of a plan. I think we should execute after
      dinner. I think we'll need lots of aurors and at least one person
      who still has 6 hours on their time turner for today. And Bones
      should probably be here too; I'm sure she wants to know what's
      going on. Let's meet back here at 11 to discuss details, right now
      I'm starving."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">As Hermione walked down the hallway to the Great Hall for
      breakfast, someone called her name. She turned to see Ginny
      approaching.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, I could really use your help with something if you
      have a minute..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paused for a beat, then put on a friendly smile and
      replied, "Sure Ginny, what do you need?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
