<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 21: Hunting Dark Lords, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21: Hunting Dark Lords</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was slowly picking at the remains of his breakfast when
      Merry Tavington handed him an envelope and quickly walked away. He
      absentmindedly opened it and began reading, "Potter, meet me at
      8:30 in previous meeting location. DM". Harry sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, Harry." Hermione sat down next to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Morning", Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, do you know anything about the rumors going around?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rumors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About missing Hufflepuffs? About the Chamber of Secrets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds bad. What are people saying?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People say lots of things. I was hoping you knew something more
      solid. You are the heir of Slytherin, after all. Don't you know
      something about the Chamber?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, "I don't know anything about the Chamber that you
      don't already know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes narrowed, "Why aren't you more curious? Salazar
      left a room for his descendants. There must be something really
      important there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at her for a moment, then replied, "Well, there
      aren't many things that last for centuries. Odds are there's
      nothing of value left down there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shrugged, "So what are you working on today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, just the usual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think you could make that a little more vague?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Secret meeting, class, homework, secret meeting, lunch, class,
      secret project, class, dinner, secret project. You know, the
      usual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever." She got up and walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few minutes, Harry got up and went to his secret meeting
      with Draco.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy. I guess you're talking to me again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is important, Potter. Are you sure you weren't
      followed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed the door, and cast 15 privacy spells, "It's as
      secure as I can make it in the castle without asking someone else
      for help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess that will have to be good enough... I shouldn't have to
      tell you this, but there's something wrong with Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have you noticed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco groaned, "Have you seriously noticed nothing? What have
      you been doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have my suspicions, but your observations might provide
      critical information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's been pretty inconspicuous all year (which is odd by
      itself but not my problem), then first thing this morning, she
      tries to interrogate me about father's death. It was almost like a
      Weasley prank, except even more classless than their usual. And I
      heard she was asking the Hufflepuffs questions about missing
      students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you first noticed her acting unusual today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You heard what I said. Now stop pretending you don't know
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "She was asking me about the Chamber of Secrets
      this morning. But I don't know what she's trying to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's... not a bad question. You are the Heir of Slytherin.
      What do you know about the Chamber?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we've never had a chance to talk about last year. We both
      know the story you told everyone at the quidditch stadium wasn't
      the whole truth. What do you really know about that?" After a
      pause, Draco added, "And that implies that you know something about
      the missing students, because this is all clearly connected
      somehow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco... I'm pretty sure there's nothing I can say now that
      you'll believe, so I'm just going to go."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quietly said, "I should have thought of this earlier, but
      the map will show... whoever... is possessed by Voldemort as 'Tom
      Riddle'. We can use it to track him and confirm who his host
      is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall wordlessly retrieved the map and opened it on the
      table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody questioned, "Are you sure he can't fool it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "I can't be sure, but it's not confunded and it
      can see through polyjuice potion, disillusionment, and even my
      invisibility cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones replied, "This is... good. We can use the map and find him
      right now. But what then? I assume he'll jump bodies as soon as he
      knows we know, and then we'll have to start over. And then
      what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody nodded, "I have some good aurors on stand-by. We'll have
      to take him down quickly. But it's Voldemort so we'll have to be
      prepared for everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued, "The core of my plan is for someone to
      time-turn back with information on Voldemort's location when he's
      alone. So we can guarantee that the aurors will be there in time
      (possibly even before Voldemort arrives) and that no students will
      be around. The details will be more complicated; for one, we have
      to assume Voldemort has a time-turner. So we'll need anti-time
      wards in place in addition to anti-apparition, anti-portkey wards
      and something to detect disillusioned or polyjuiced people or
      animagi, etc."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall replied, "With Mr. Lupin's help, the warding
      specialists are reportedly making progress, but I don't believe
      they can do something as complicated as anti-time warding yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "Okay, we can fake that: in addition to
      information on Voldemort's location, someone brings some innocuous
      information from six hours ahead and announces it in the Great Hall
      at dinner, so no one in the room will be able to time turn for an
      hour. We'll need a location for Voldemort during that hour, but you
      can order an early curfew to get the students out of the way and
      send aurors straight to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall groaned softly, "I don't like plans involving
      time-turners. What if we get information about when and where 'Tom
      Riddle' is alone, gather at that place and time, and find that we
      only went there because you were there... because we got a message
      that you were there... I hate time-turners."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody scoffed, "That's easy enough. Harry, you're not hunting
      Voldemort. Either stay in a a crowded place or inform us of where
      you're going. And we won't plan a raid on your office or one of
      your classrooms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones suggested, "If Trelawney makes the announcements, he
      probably won't dare not listen and it won't be as suspicious if the
      message doesn't make sense. But how many aurors are required for
      their combined power to match Voldemort? We're not talking about
      arresting a dangerous wizard so much as waging a small war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned and lowered his head into his hands mumbling,
      "It's not about power, it's about efficiency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody stared at Harry, "I heard him say something like that
      once. We thought it was just a taunt. But you know what it
      means."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry answered slowly, "There's... Voldemort clearly knows some
      Interdicted spells that have been lost to everyone else. But
      there's a pattern in the way he fights... I've... heard about
      multiple instances where someone cast a spell at him- standard
      things that most wizards could shield against- but he'd neutralize
      them... somehow... that definitely didn't use a shield."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused for few seconds then continued, "I think Voldemort
      can absorb magic from spells, similar to the way his dueling
      targets can absorb magic. It doesn't matter if one person casts a
      stunner at him or if 40 people cast stunners at him, the spells
      will fizzle out in mid-air. I believe he can drain shields the same
      way... He might even be able to directly drain people's magical
      reserves until they pass out for a moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody nodded, "Something like that wouldn't work on
      unforgiveables. Or other dark magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones added, "I doubt you could imperius him. How many killing
      curses could you cast at him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody replied, "I think I could kill him at least a few times
      for friends of mine he's killed. But I can't imagine how he casts
      so many killing curses at total strangers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suggested, "I think we need a dementor; that's one of the
      only things Voldemort won't be able to deal with, so he'll have to
      abandon his host. We get info from the future about where he is and
      who he's possessing. Moody and other aurors cast killing curses
      (they can use the map to determine safe directions so no one else
      is hit) at Voldemort to back him into a corner. Some muggle
      explosives might also help. I can mask the dementor with a patronus
      so he can't sense it and then release it when he's cornered with
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody glanced at Harry, "You aren't going to be there. We have
      other people who can cast a patronus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry countered, "But with those, people can still sense the
      dementor. I think it has to be me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone else responded in the negative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine. But it is not acceptable to kill Voldemort's host. He's
      going to survive either way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The meeting concluded shortly afterwards. As soon as Harry was
      out of the room, Bones stopped everyone and announced, "I'm
      authorizing lethal force. Do whatever you need to do, Mad-Eye."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"...as a result, a new curfew is in effect: until further
      notice, all students will return directly to their common rooms
      after dinner and remain there until morning. Professors will
      accompany students to verify that everyone is accounted for."
      McGonagall finished as the plates disappeared from the tables.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney's magically amplified voice boomed through the hall,
      "The location of importance will be 4-K-19 and the roll will be
      3."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence for a moment before the hall filled with
      whispers and the students hesitantly moved toward the exit.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, we just got the anti-polyjuice and anti-disillusionment
      wards in place a few hours ago", Lupin reported.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody nodded and turned to Lyall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's going to pass through this hallway in 52 minutes", Lyall
      pointed at a room on the map. "I know it's cutting it close, but
      he's going to spend most of the next hour in this area where he
      will be relatively close to students straggling on their way to
      their dorms. How much other information do you want?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody considered for a second, "Nothing until I specifically
      ask. We're already breaking normal protocol by deploying before you
      collected your intelligence. We're setting ourselves up for nasty
      time-turner side effects if we know too much. Wait, does anyone
      else other than my team walk through that hallway while my team is
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Professor Lockhart enters the area a-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's enough. Okay, no one kill Lockhart. Unless he gives you
      a good reason. Or a half-decent reason... So let's get the dementor
      in place back here, put the C4 here and here, the sniper nest here,
      and everyone else in here. Remember, I want the C4 hidden behind
      the statues, not magically concealed and, Lupin, I want fidelius
      charms around the sniper, the other aurors, and around the
      dementor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't set up three fidelius charms in an hour. Pick one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody sighed, "Fine. You need a rectangle, right? Can you put
      two of the ward anchors in this room, one down the hallway here,
      and one in this room?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That should be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, the sniper nest will be just inside of the hallway ward
      anchor and that will also cover most of these two rooms. Aurors
      will hide in this one, and the dementor team in the other. To
      summarize one final time, when Voldie's host crosses this line,
      trigger the C4. I want you twelve at this doorway, three prone,
      three kneeling behind them, three standing behind them, and three
      for backup. Your goal is to keep Voldie on the defensive after he
      ducks into the opposing room for cover from the blast. If you're
      not in the right state of mind to cast a killing curse, get out of
      the way so someone else can take your place. Unless the shooting
      has already started- in that case, switch to the cruciatus. Once
      he's pinned down, you three release your patroni and order the
      dementor in there. I'll follow up with fiendfyre. If Voldie turns
      back or goes anywhere besides this room, I want a headshot. And
      then empty the magazine. If you here a shot, release the dementor
      immediately. And this wall will be charmed so you can target
      killing curses through it if necessary. Any questions about what
      we're going to do?... Then what are you all waiting for? Move,
      move, move!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The crowd of students had thinned out somewhat as they
      approached Ravenclaw Tower, as students from other houses had
      followed other paths back to their own common rooms. But the whole
      crowd still came to an instant stop when the students in front
      suddenly stopped walking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the other students were attempting to figure out what was
      going through a loud variant of the telephone game, Harry levitated
      above their heads and flew forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stopped just as suddenly as the others had. Written in large
      red letters, possibly blood: "<em class="calibre7">Their skeletons will lie in the
      Chamber forever</em>".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sped back over the crowd, headed for the fifth floor
      entrance they had found that morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A voice cut through the din, "Harry..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Luna. I'm pretty busy at the moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're looking for something? Or someone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped. "Yes. There's supposed to be a secret room in the
      castle-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean the Chamber of Secrets? That's where Ginny took
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny took Hermione to the Chamber of Secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An entrance on the first floor girls bathroom, check the sink.
      Then straight down the hallway, first opening on the left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks Luna, I owe you."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Time had slowed to a crawl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All units report", Moody whispered into his mirror for about
      the fifth time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Front line ready."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dementor team ready."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sniper nest ready... wait, I've got movement... It's Lockhart,
      approaching from downrange."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody growled, "All teams stand by." He leaned out the door and
      used a hover charm to pull Lockhart down the hallway and into the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After recovering his balance, Lockhart asked, "What's all this
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up, stand over there, don't move, and most importantly,
      shut up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know I could help with whatev-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did I just say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart stepped back and made a series of hand gestures
      indicating acceptance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All units report", Moody whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Front line ready."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dementor team ready."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sniper nest ready."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got movement... one suspect, cloaked and hooded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone tensed, preparing for battle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About ten seconds at current speed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"C4 in three seconds... two... one..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had all applied silencing charms in preparation, but the
      sound that got through was still impressive. The figure managed to
      get a partial shield behind itself soon enough to survive the
      shrapnel and ducked into the room to its left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hallway between the rooms lit up with flashes of green light
      for a second before the figure cast a blindingly bright ball of
      white light. The aurors continued firing curses blindly into the
      room. The light dimmed significantly as the dementor glided
      forward, and went out entirely as the dementor entered the room and
      closed in on its prey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expecto patronum", he said weakly. No patronus appeared and the
      dementor put its skeletal hands on his shoulders and pulled itself
      within inches of the man's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did Voldemort just try to cast a patronus?", someone asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"IT'S LOCKHART!", yelled Bahry, "EXPECTO PATRONUM!" His patronus
      pushed the dementor back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody started to spin around when-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Avada kedavra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody dove to his left, spun in midair, and brought up his wand,
      "Avada-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart (#1) was half-smiling as he activated his time-turner
      and disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"DAMMIT!" Moody yelled. He ran to the other room and pulled
      Lockhart to his feet, "You are going to give me some answers or I
      will rip them from your mind!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had no choice. No choice. There's no choice. Never any
      choice. All a lie." Moody released him, and Lockhart collapsed into
      a sitting position, mumbling to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The dementor kissed him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bahry shook his head, "I don't know. I was sure I stopped it in
      time. His dementor exposure should have been minimal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody quickly checked Lockhart for polyjuice and possession.
      "You four, take him to St. Mungo's and keep him guarded. Have them
      check for metamorphmagus magic and see if they can figure out
      what's wrong with him. And get a legilimens in there to dig some
      information out of his head about what he's been doing.
      DAMMIT!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached the end of the sink-tunnel and the beginning of a
      hallway. There was a table with a cauldron, glassware, and potions
      ingredients he recognized as those required for liquid luck.
      Luckily for him, the potion had clearly failed. The floor was
      littered with empty containers that he recognized as ingredients
      for polyjuice potion. Clearly Luna had directed him to the right
      place. He proceeded down the hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly took in the Chamber of Secrets. It was a
      relatively plain room other than for the massive statue. And the
      robed figure standing over what looked like a ten-foot long dead
      snake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The figure turned to face him and drew back its hood, revealing
      a redheaded girl. "Oh, good, you got my message. We're long overdue
      for a real conversation. You have a certain reputation. We'll see
      if it's deserved. Let's start with something easy: have you deduced
      who I am?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just stared at Ginny for a moment in disbelief. She was
      holding a book with "Tom Marvolo Riddle" printed across the front
      in large letters. Finally he answered sarcastically, "Let me guess:
      something of a Riddle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny hissed at him then angrily announced, "I am Lord
      Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled, "I knew Voldemort, and you sir, are no
      Voldemort. Voldemort was one of the smartest people I've ever met.
      You may be above average by wizard standards of intelligence, but
      trust me, you're nothing special."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny continued, "My name is actually an anagram of-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Marvolo isn't even your real middle name! I mean, it wasn't
      even the real Tom Riddle's real middle name. And why would you base
      your alter-ego on an anagram? Do you think anyone even cares about
      that? It's just dumb."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you use that muggle name again, you will regret it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you prefer Ginny Weasley?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny chuckled, "I've gotten quite skilled at playing that role.
      Though I'm mildly surprised you remember that name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I admit this is the first time I've seen Ginny do anything
      interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny chuckled again, "Fair point. On a somewhat related topic,
      what do you think about us collaborating on a project?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You recently killed several people. Including some who were
      useful and interesting. So you can understand that I'm not
      particularly inclined to help you with... what is it you want to
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny smiled, "Become Minister of Magic and lead Wizarding
      Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "Naturally. To quote my old defense professor,
      you are ambitious but you have no ambition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think I'd tell you any plans of significance just because
      you asked?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged and gestured at the snake, "You seem like the
      kind of person who would do something like that. Anyway, you're
      breeding basilisks. And using them to kill for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. That's all part of my master plan. Those students would
      have inevitably opposed me at critical times, so I had to eliminate
      them as soon as possible. I certainly didn't let the basilisk
      escape accidentally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes widened for a second as he tried to calculate what
      level of deception that was, then replied, "That means you didn't
      just lose your temper and kill it. You intended to have a basilisk
      corpse over there because that's just your taste in interior
      decorating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny scowled at him, "Fine. I want the knowledge Slytherin's
      basilisk had. Creating my own basilisk was a small part of one
      possible plan for accomplishing that." Her expression lightened,
      "If you can contribute to that end, I will acknowledge your
      usefulness. Perhaps I'll even share some of the lost spells with
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, I am more than a little interested in getting those
      spells, but what exactly do you bring to the table in that
      arrangement?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny hissed, "I have far more experience with basilisks in
      general and Slytherin's basilisk specifically than anyone alive,
      including you, annoying child. I also have some memories of using
      some of the spells, so small hints may allow me to remember much
      more. What can you offer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "If you don't know, why are you asking for my
      help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny looked angry for a moment, then smiled sweetly, "If you
      don't work with me, you'll never find Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Never' is a strong word. This place isn't <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      big."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think you're taking me seriously. Don't you realize who
      I am?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not and I do. You're a first-year witch who has absorbed
      some memories from a seventh-year wizard who was an egomaniac and a
      wannabe dark lord. You think you're Voldemort, but you don't don't
      have his battle magic skills or experience, you don't have his
      knowledge of magic or his magical power, you don't have his
      followers, and you don't have his intelligence. The only important
      thing seventh year Tom Riddle had done is kill someone to make that
      diary. That doesn't make you a dark lord or an evil genius, just a
      thug with an ego."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you're trying to anger me into making a mistake. Not a
      bad tactic, but clumsily executed. And obviously, I'm younger than
      the Voldemort this world knows, but I have the same potential. My
      future will be even greater because I will gain the same powers
      without repeating his mistakes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have no future. Ginny will go home to her family and you
      will cease to exist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She giggled, "There is no Ginny. I obliviated every one of her
      memories except for a few I needed to fool her family and
      friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's the lie I'd tell in your place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cast a bat-bogey hex at him, then announced, "You're testing
      my patience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let his robe reflect the hex, "I'm a scientist. I test
      everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So be it. Diffindo." She cast the curse not at Harry, but at
      the ceiling above him, cracking it and causing several large stone
      blocks to fall. "Jellyfy." As Harry was running out of the way of
      the falling rocks, he slipped and hit the ground, continuing to
      slide forward. "Avada kedarvra." Ginny dropped to a knee from the
      magical drain, while the green curse flew out on course to
      intercept Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry accelerated, flying along the ground and the curse entered
      the floor behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile, Ginny called out, "<em class="calibre7">Bassilissk, kill the
      intruder.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ascended off of the floor, but landed awkwardly,
      "<em class="calibre7">Bassilissk, go back to ssleep.</em>" He kept his gaze down,
      but heard something large moving behind the statue. He then fired a
      series of somniums in Ginny's direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She raised a prismatic sphere. "Silly child, an inferius only
      obeys its creator's commands."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The large something was getting closer. "Do the eyes of basilisk
      inferi kill? Or does that magic stop when they die?" Harry fumbled
      with his pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's something else we can investigate together. I'll be the
      researcher, and you can be the test subject. I think I'm starting
      to see the appeal of this 'science' thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry activated the deluminator and the room plunged into
      darkness as every light went out. He quietly said, "That's another
      point for you, Dumbledore." He then ascended toward the ceiling,
      cast ventriliquo, and pointed his wand at the floor below him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny giggled, "Even if my basilisk can't see you, it can still
      hear you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snakes can't hear, moron, they only feel vibrations." Harry
      tapped his glasses with his wand to activate his newest set of
      charms, then muttered, "crap", when nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how do they respond to parseltongue, you idiot?" She cast
      a series of glisseos, trying to either find Harry or help the
      basilisk locate him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's just a magical linguistic interface, not a sense snakes
      can actually use." Harry slapped his palm to his forehead. He
      ripped a strip of cloth from his robes and tied it into blindfold.
      Once sufficiently separated from the room with the active
      deluminator, his glasses lit up. It had taken half the year and
      ultimately Flitwick's map-drawing spell, but Harry finally had a
      decent way to see in the dark: his glasses emitted ultrasonic
      pulses and used the return signals to draw a depth map.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry almost screamed. The basilisk inferius was about 20 meters
      long and its head was less than 3 meters away. It sniffed the air,
      turned slightly and sniffed again, clearly zeroing in on Harry. He
      dropped quickly and flew to the other side of the room. He decided
      to use Ginny as a human shield, and slowly flew a few circles
      around her to leave a scent trail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She yelled, "<em class="calibre7">I command you, sstrike now, sstupid
      ssnake!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched the basilisk follow the path he'd flown, open its
      mouth and strike. The momentum drove Ginny's prismatic sphere
      backward into the wall. The snake backed up and prepared to strike
      again. Harry cast a shield-breaker which easily popped the
      overstressed shield, then cast a hover charm to rip the diary out
      of her hand and propel it onto one of the basilisk's fangs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny screamed and passed out. The basilisk fell to the ground,
      dead once again.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
