<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 4: Zimbardo's Methodology was Flawed, Pt 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Zimbardo's Methodology Was Flawed, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shortly after the story in HPMOR, Hermione decides it is up to
      her to destroy Azkaban's dementors, even knowing the risks
      involved. A phoenix arrives to assist her, but after teleporting
      away with Hermione, immediately returns to Hogwarts. Hermione is
      left alone in dementor-central while Harry desperately tries to get
      the phoenix to her before it's too late.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco is angry at the world; at the perceived failures and
      betrayals of everyone around him. In a flash of incite, Draco
      concludes that Harry is Voldemort and is the biggest threat to
      magical society. He begins planning to amass power for the
      inevitable battle.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you can't teleport directly to Azkaban and can't fly to it.
      The obvious solution is to teleport above the wards and fall right
      where you want to go. Unfortunately, I don't know exactly how high
      or wide the wards extend. But if you start at an altitude of 100km,
      several kilometers east of the prison, you'll almost certainly be
      outside the wards, and the earth's rotation will bring Azkaban to
      you. I'm not sure how resistant you are to the low temperatures and
      pressures in the upper atmosphere, and don't want you to have to
      regenerate after you land, so I'm going to transfigure a capsule
      for you. That will also have the advantage of having a more easily
      estimated coefficient of drag and terminal velocity. I'll put some
      fins and a parachute on the capsule so you can steer toward the
      prison once you see it and then land safely... Sometime soon, I'm
      going to either need a working computer in here or a magical way to
      solve equations..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A deafening shriek filled the prison, accompanied by a
      noticeable tremor. An auror was coming down the spiral, now two
      floors above Hermione, and she could clearly hear a voice yell from
      his communication mirror, "does anyone know what the hell that
      was?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The response also came from the mirror, "Something tore through
      the outer wall of the prison, sir. It's ... hold on a second ... Be
      careful, everyone. We must have a seriously powerful dark wizard in
      the prison."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Report. What's going on up there, Nobbs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A phoenix came for me, to help me defeat the dark wizard. Does
      anyone know if they normally arrive in some kind of big metal
      egg-thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh. It keeps falling over." He pauses, laughing. "It looks
      dizzy. And confused. If I didn't know any better, I'd say it has a
      concussion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had quietly squeezed past the nearest auror and
      continued spiraling up, occasionally having to duck against the
      wall to avoid aurors running up or down in no search pattern she
      could identify.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, she reached the correct level. It was
      obviously the correct place because of the rain falling into the
      prison through a roundish hole punched in the ceiling (and outer
      wall of the corridor above). The auror she'd heard over the mirror
      had put her phoenix on his shoulder and was trying but failing to
      look properly heroic while recounting the story to his CO,
      gesturing at the crumpled halves of a small metal shell. The
      phoenix somehow had a murderous expression totally incongruous with
      such an animal. At its first opportunity, the phoenix hopped to the
      floor and began a slow, furtive escape attempt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione checked to make sure no one was watching then pulled
      the edge of the cloak over the phoenix, picked it up, and quickly
      backed away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell did you do?" She whispered, once she was far
      enough from the aurors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix just spread its wings, made eye contact, and slowly
      shook its head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. After this, we have to get back to Hogwarts so I can
      yell at Harry." The phoenix nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They carefully descended through the prison. Past the lowest
      level, where no humans had likely tread since the prison was
      constructed, was the threshold through which dementors accessed the
      prison. Hermione looked into the cave; there was no other way to
      describe it, there was even a dripping stalactite near the opening.
      Hermione held her breathe as a dementor drifted by. Once it had
      passed, the stalactite had a thin layer of ice covering it; the
      dementor nest was apparently made of permafrost, the obvious result
      of every other material decaying into dust, mixing with the
      ever-present rain, and freezing from perpetual dementor
      exposure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took several deep breaths and cast a patronus, then walked
      to center of the cavern, right into the center of uncounted scores
      of hovering, cloaked corpses, which quickly became locked in place.
      She pushed more power into the patronus, which quickly became
      blindingly bright.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For what felt like a lifetime she felt her life force flowing
      out of her wand and through the patronus, but she felt something
      similar flowing back in from both the phoenix and from the
      dementors as they were vanquished, then overflowing out again. For
      a moment, Hermione couldn't imagine why she would want to be doing
      anything else. She pushed even more power through the patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly the patronus went out. Hermione blinked a few times
      then noticed that the phoenix had grabbed her wand. The cloaks were
      lying in the muddy slush, empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's the biggest check-mark on my to-do list... for my
      entire life to date. If I were anyone else, I might be concerned
      about what to follow it up with, but if my life ever gets boring I
      can just talk to Harry... I guess I should figure out how to get
      out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was easier said than done; the phoenix clearly couldn't fly
      in Azkaban, and a few seconds of testing demonstrated that her
      broom couldn't either. The weird forces that kept her from running
      would likely crash an airplane and something like a blimp or hot
      air balloon would be too easy of a target. Flying away appeared to
      be impossible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although, there were other options. Hermione was reasonably sure
      she was immune to hypothermia, and even if not, with a phoenix she
      should still be able to tolerate the water long enough to swim past
      the wards. Swimming while wearing an invisibility cloak was likely
      to be problematic but preferable to aurors being able to see her.
      And if she jumped off the tower through the hole left by her
      phoenix's arrival, she'd break a few bones but recover quickly
      enough. It seemed like a viable plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She began climbing stairs back to the upper levels but only made
      it to the second lowest level when she saw aurors. There was a
      giant spider (nowhere near as large as an acromantula, but still
      terrifying) behind them, weaving a web across the landing. After it
      completed the web, they cast a series of wards on it. The web was
      tightly woven enough to catch even an insect animagus, though
      casting animagus detection charms would have been far easier.
      Hermione realized they must have either detected or guessed the
      presence of the cloak of invisibility, and were prepared to catch a
      dark wizard with additional options for escape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After finishing the detection wards on the web the aurors moved
      down the hallway, stunning the prisoners who Hermione could now
      hear attempting to escape their cells and fight the aurors. But
      there were few prisoners this low.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no", Hermione whispered. They would seal the lowest level
      and begin searching it in only another minute. She moved to the
      center of the corridor, walked into one of the cells and paused to
      think. She didn't know what wards were cast on the webs or how to
      bypass them. It was possible she could escape directly, but she
      didn't know any spells powerful enough to break through the metal
      walls, especially not quickly enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled, "oh, yeah." She drew the rocket launcher from her
      pouch and fired at the corridor wall. The anti-tank round easily
      tore a large hole in the structure, allowing rain and light from
      the overcast sky in. As Hermione got back up from where she'd been
      blown against the far wall, she made a mental note to always use a
      blast shield and hearing protection when setting off explosives in
      the future; she'd been hit by a small amount of shrapnel, which her
      body quickly expelled, but the burns from the explosion weren't
      healing as quickly. And not being able to hear anything over the
      ringing sound was quite annoying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The aurors heard the explosion and ran toward it from both
      sides, but Hermione was already in the water, where the phoenix
      tried to climb onto her back, still tangled in the wet cloak.
      Hermione slowly swam away from the island, wondering whether
      unicorns had some prophetic ability. It was improbable to the
      extreme that the first thing she asked Harry to get after being
      revived was exactly what she needed on her first mission afterward.
      Or maybe RPGs are just one of those things that are useful in every
      situation.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think we should tell people about you crashing my
      phoenix. Or me blowing myself up. In the future, when we can talk
      about all this, I mean. We should just say I... I don't know, flew
      in and destroyed the dementors with no particular
      difficulties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's probably for the best... Hermione, wait, what do
      you mean 'crashed'? The parachute failed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was a parachute?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Caw?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean you don't know what a parachute does? I asked
      if you understood everything and you nodded... Anyway, I don't have
      time for this. I have to time-turn and test an hypothesis. You
      might be interested too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry went backwards several hours. Hermione appeared in his
      office a moment later. They quietly (so as not to disturb
      past-Harry on the roof) exited the office and walked to the third
      floor corridor. "So there's a legend that phoenices come from this
      magic mirror that happens to be in Hogwarts. The mirror has other
      magic as well, so it would be preferable if we use the invisibility
      cloak to prevent it from reacting to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, they stood invisibly before the mirror.
      Harry had first noticed the phoenix two minutes from now. They
      waited. Harry couldn't help trying to count the seconds in his
      head. He had reached 140 when there was a bright flash of phoenix
      fire. They found themselves back in Harry's office with the phoenix
      hovering in front of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, your phoenix is interfering with science!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You asked us to move the prisoners and then less than a week
      later, the dementors are mysteriously gone? And you don't expect us
      to suspect that you're involved? How naive do you think we are,
      Ogden?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not an idiot or a vigilante, Umbridge. I objected to
      torturing prisoners but I never advocated acting against the will
      of this council nor depriving our country of its dementor
      deterrent. Your attempt to tie me to this act due to my political
      beliefs would be disturbing if anyone still took you seriously.
      Next you'll probably blame me for somehow causing Voldemort to kill
      all your friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Umbridge made an offended noise and turned away, looking up
      toward the podium. "And you... you told us the prison was more
      secure than ever. Are we to believe you knew nothing about
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones frowned. "I can neither confirm nor deny that being Chief
      Warlock comes with special foreknowledge of crazy crap that's about
      to happen." Then muttered quietly "I hate this job so much. And
      that kid."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The headmistress' office was never quiet. Despite having
      countless silencing charms applied, at least one object was always
      making noise, even when no one was around. Now, the only sound came
      from behind the empty desk, where a cube made audible 'blorple'
      sounds at regular intervals. And a 'click' as the door unlatched
      and swung slightly ajar before fully opening a second later. A
      moment later there was another click as the door closed and
      latched. Then only the sound of the cube remained.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
