<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 8: Planning Ahead, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Planning Ahead</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Here's how it is:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During his second year at Hogwarts, Harry is still concerned
      about the fate of the world, but has made significant progress:
      Hermione has obtained a phoenix and destroyed Azkaban's dementors,
      and Bones is grudgingly taking his cues on national policy.
      Progress toward a functional Philosopher's Stone based hospital at
      Hogwarts has stalled due to ward incompatibilities and a temporary
      solution is being set up in the now-abandoned Azkaban tower. Harry
      has built up a relatively long list of things he needs to
      investigate, including big picture items like Merlin's Interdict,
      prophecy, magic-technology interactions, and helping Dumbledore, as
      well as smaller scale things like revisiting his conclusions about
      comed-tea, looking into Ravenclaw's Diadem, and looking into
      whether the potion liquid luck is a real thing or a cover story.
      Magical interferences with technology are proving more difficult to
      pin down than he had hoped. Moody, Bones, McGonagall, and Hermione
      were all concerned when Harry advocated releasing Voldemort from
      the ring in order to question him about the mirror and help rescue
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sprout has mysteriously received a gift: the long-lost and
      apparently cursed Hufflepuff Cup and has displayed
      uncharacteristically aggressive behavior. She had requested
      Hermione's help with research of a vaguely defined nature. Draco,
      after having found the Riddle Diary, is showing some very
      Voldemort-like thoughts and behaviors, working to amass power and
      followers for himself, and brutally knocking down anyone who gets
      in his way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna demonstrates uncanny knowledge even though she's obviously
      not a real seer. Moody has hypothesized that Defense professor
      Gilderoy Lockhart is incompetent and relying on liquid luck for his
      accomplishments. Bellatrix is still at large and able to appear in
      public despite being Magical Britain's most wanted. The inmate
      assumed to be Pettigrew has disappeared, leaving questions about
      his true identity and possible crimes.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I checked Sprout for evidence of recent legilimency or memory
      charms and came up empty", Moody began. "Nothing indicating a
      confundus either, though you wouldn't expect it after several
      hours. I did see a trace of dark magic, but it wasn't from an
      imperius. It looked more like an after-effect of possession."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The others stared in silence for a moment, processing the
      ramifications.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall spoke first, "So Voldemort isn't defeated after
      all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody replied, "He's not the only one in the world who could've
      made a horcrux and there may be other ways to possess someone with
      dark magic. But Voldemort is the only one I know for certain has
      that ability and, of the dark wizards who may be capable of such
      things, he's the most likely to want to infiltrate Hogwarts." He
      stared at Harry, "Ring on the table. Now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Harry complied. Moody snapped, "We all heard you talk
      about wanting to let him out. Is there anything you want to tell
      us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, "I know how dangerous Voldemort is and I'm not
      reckless or insane. I still think we should consider waking him and
      trying to learn what Interdicted magic he's acquired, but I won't
      do it unless it's in a heavily-warded area with lots of aurors (and
      probably trained snipers) ready to act. And unless at least one of
      you agrees that it was worth the risk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody grunted and ignored everyone for a few minutes while he
      checked the wards on the ring. Eventually he concluded, "There's no
      indication that the transfiguration was interrupted or that the
      wards were tampered with." He turned to Harry, handing back the
      ring, "How sure are you that Voldie couldn't possess someone with a
      horcrux while still being trapped in there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, "I don't know exactly how his horcruxen
      work or what he can do with them. He claimed that they were
      connected together and kept up-to-date copies of his memories. They
      should have all been obliviated along with him, but I suppose it's
      possible he had some safeguard to prevent that. But he also claimed
      he had the Resurrection Stone, that it would allow him to project a
      spirit wherever he wished, and that he'd torture everyone I care
      about. It's been months, so either he's trapped, he lied about his
      abilities, or he lied about his intentions. How sure are you that
      Sprout was possessed, rather than exposed to some other dark magic?
      And more simply, if you scanned a thousand people, how many would
      you expect to show some trace of dark magic? Is it a perfect
      indicator that someone's either done something wrong or been
      victimized, or are there more mundane explanations as well? And if
      it's a good indicator, why isn't it more common to check for
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones answered, "You're right; it's not a perfect test. I'll get
      someone to do some research and try to find a better charm for
      detecting whether someone has been possessed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A spell for locating a disembodied dark wizard or object imbued
      with dark magic would also be helpful. Unless you already know of
      one?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones shook her head, "I'll put it on the list. Is there
      anything else we need to discuss today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody answered, "There's some good news: the first terminal
      patients have been treated with the stone. You've probably noticed
      the new building just outside the wards; it's not being used for
      anything. I had floo connections set up in a couple abandoned
      buildings in Muggle London to be the arrival and departure rooms.
      For now, I'm planning to change the floo code once per week, and
      the physical location once per month. So far, a few doctors at St.
      Mungo's and the largest hospitals in France and Ireland are being
      kept up to date on the floo code for the arrival room. I'm
      recommending the other hospitals in each region transfer their
      hardest cases to the largest hospitals to minimize the number of
      people who need to know there's a secret hospital or how to get to
      the arrival room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And finally, we should really consider meeting somewhere else.
      Scanning this place for magical traps or listening devices takes
      forever with all the random magic crap in this office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled, "I recommend my office. You're already scanning it
      regularly, and this gives me an excuse to get a floo connection
      installed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the meeting, even though Harry didn't believe it probable
      that Voldemort had returned to Hogwarts, he couldn't stop thinking
      about ways Voldemort may have escaped or what he would be doing if
      he had. He didn't sleep well that week.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Robert Jugson, who had avoided the infirmary for most of his
      years at Hogwarts, had returned for the third time in a single
      week. "What do you mean you don't have anything for this? You're
      supposed to have potions for everything. And it itches all the
      time. I need something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you: there's nothing physically wrong, so there's
      nothing I can treat. But I can give you a potion for anxiety."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not crazy! It's real- what about this rash?" He pulls back
      his sleeve, showing red marks across his upper arm. "It's even
      started bleeding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It looks like you did that to yourself by scratching. I can
      give you a skin repairing salve but you should start taking a
      calming potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about these things coming out of the cuts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She waves here wand and mutters an analytic charm, "They're
      fabric fibers. From your robes or bedsheets or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jugson cursed under his breath and left the hospital wing.
      Draco, who had been in the hallway nearby, started walking
      alongside him, "I've heard about your recent problems. I assume
      you've started planning revenge on him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?! Who? Not Sloper, he's just as bad off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were with Sloper after hours. And you apparently weren't
      fighting each other. How many interests do you have in common with
      him? It's not hard to guess what you were doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jugson stopped and faced Draco, scowling and crossing his arms
      menacingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco ignored this and continued, "So ask yourself: of all the
      people you know, who would have fought you, especially with such an
      unconventional attack? Who's famous for doing whatever the hell he
      feels like and getting away with it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jugson's eyes widened, "Potter! ...Wait, I thought he was your
      friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shrugged, "There were hints from the beginning that he's
      going to be a powerful dark lord. I was prepared to support him. I
      intended to ride that power to the top. I'm sure you understand.
      But he's always used my offers of friendship to manipulate me when
      it's in his interest and ignored me when I suppose I'm not
      providing enough value or amusement. If he acts this way as a 12
      year old...", Draco shuddered, "some day, this country will be
      covered with mass graves, containing his former enemies and former
      allies alike."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone should stop him before it's too late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. "I intend to do what I can, but it's going to take
      some time to build support and devise a plan. Can I count on your
      support when it's time?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"...so it's not that Lockhart didn't make some good points, I'm
      just not looking forward to learning pointless minutia about things
      that aren't dangerous to anyone with a quantum of common sense",
      Harry concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Penelope Clearwater nodded, "It's not surprising you feel that
      way. Those of us who have been at Hogwarts longer remember some of
      the truly incompetent Defense professors. You've not only been
      spoiled by a having a good one, he also kind of wanted to be a dark
      lord, much like yourself, so it's pretty unlikely you'll have
      another Defense professor that you like as well as Professor
      Quirrell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "Whatever. Anyway, I'll find a way to make the
      class educational even if I have to teach Professor Lockhart the
      true meaning of chaos. Especially if."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly distracted, Harry opened his notebook and sighed. He
      turned it toward Hermione and quietly said, "I've forgotten to do
      most of my comed-tea tests this week. Could you start reminding me
      at dinner? I'll find another memory aid too. That should provide
      enough redundancy to perform the experiment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a pause, Padma said, "Speaking of chaos in the Defense
      class, the first year class must have been pretty entertaining. I
      heard Luna tried to convince the professor that people can use the
      killing curse without hating the target."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry managed to not choke, but frowned at Luna, "Why would you
      say that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it's true, of course. Although I suppose you meant to
      ask why I would give that information to anyone. I didn't really
      think of that at the time; it was just so peculiar that the Defense
      Against the Dark Arts Professor didn't know better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Across the Great Hall, Draco decided to spend more time
      observing Harry Potter's activities. He slowly drew his wand and
      subtly cast a directional hearing charm. He kept his head down and
      pretended to focus on his meal while trying to keep his ear
      correctly angled to overhear Potter's conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...be surprising. Anyone can teach the material in a textbook.
      Professor Lockhart may have been on some cool adventures, but that
      doesn't mean he knows much about the Dark Arts. It's been suggested
      that he's been relying on a supply of Felix Felicis to do
      everything he's..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco winced and canceled the charm as some yelling idiot walked
      into his line-of-hearing. No matter; that had been surprisingly
      informative for what was probably a generic conversation about
      coursework. He resolved to be extremely careful around Lockhart,
      and finalized his potion-brewing plans. Several useful potions take
      quite a while to brew, and any intelligent person starts preparing
      such things well before one needs them...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you think you're better at flying than me?", Ron yelled,
      interrupting the Ravenclaws' discussion. Harry calmly took a bite
      of food without looking up. "Hey, I'm talking to you, Potter!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed the food and slowly turned, "Am I just supposed
      to assume you're talking to me whenever you yell something?" He
      deliberately looked down at his watch, "I really don't have the
      time for that; I'm a busy person, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think you're better at flying than me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes, "I was last year, but it's not like I've
      spent much time practicing. So now, who knows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny, who had followed her brother from the Gryffindor table,
      helpfully added, "Ron's about to try out for the Gryffindor
      quidditch team. A group of Slytherins keep telling everyone that if
      he makes the team, then with you, Gregory, and Cedric on the other
      teams, Gryffindor will come in last place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glared at Ron, "That doesn't explain why he's yelling at
      me instead of at them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron clarified, "Are you going to race me or not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry replied, "Why not? Just write out all the rules, like what
      brooms we have to use, the course you want to follow, any areas
      that are out of bounds, how the start of the race will be
      indicated, who will judge or otherwise how we determine the winner,
      etc. and get it to me at least a week before the actual race so I
      can go over it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rules? Why can't we just race?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If there aren't written rules, then if I win, you'll accuse me
      of cheating. You'll claim that some random thing or another was
      obviously against the unspecified rules and demand a rematch. I'm
      skipping that part and requiring the rules to be specified in
      advance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron stared at Harry and muttered, "I challenge him to a race and
      he gives me bloody homework."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned his back on Ron, "Hermione, do you want to work on
      another electronics experiment? I'm thinking about walking around
      just inside the Hogwarts wards to see if my watch or calculator
      will turn on anywhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione replied, "I'm really busy; there are some things I
      really need to work on. And do you really think that's a two person
      job?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "Honestly, I just can't remember the last time
      you went outside. And today might be the last time the weather is
      this nice until spring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny interjected, "I can help!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione's right; it really isn't a two person job. And I don't
      think it has a high likelihood of producing novel data anyway."
      Harry pushed his plate away and stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's the same reason why we should race now!", Ron
      argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked as he walked away.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"... And that's why you should always wear gloves and eye
      protection when working with acid slugs", Lockhart concluded. Read
      and summarize chapter two from the standard text and begin reading
      my Guide to Household Pests by next week.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While everyone was leaving , Harry walked to the professor's
      desk. "I need to borrow a target drone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The spheres stored in the ceiling that are charmed to float
      around and absorb spells for people practicing dueling. I need to
      borrow one for... a project in another class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart glanced at the ceiling, noticing the hatch for the
      first time, then looked at Harry and smiled, "Let me guess: after
      Professor Quirrell's class, you're disappointed that you haven't
      gotten to shoot anyone or anything in Defense class this year, and
      you want to practice on your own?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It really is for another class... but you're not wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lockhart cast a levitation charm and pulled at the hatch in the
      ceiling while talking, "Well, you can take a target if you like,
      but you should know, I do have some ideas for more... hands-on
      activities for class." The hatch finally fell open and Lockhart
      cast a quick accio, pulling out one of the spheres.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such as?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He smiled wider, "I wouldn't want to spoil the surprise." He
      handed Harry the sphere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, put the target drone in his pouch, and walked
      away.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
