<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath - Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath Chapter 9: Philosophy (Omake), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Memories of a Sociopath"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: Philosophy (Omake)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Luna Discuss Philosophy for Some Reason (Omake)</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"This feels like the start of a new chapter", Luna stated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma asked, "You mean, like things are changing? I remember
      feeling like that when I first came to Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant the story that we're in just turned a page and started
      a new chapter, with a new number and title and everything. It's odd
      though; I'm not sure what the number is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna, this isn't a story. This is the real world", Hermione
      said slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna looked at Hermione and tilted her head, "What do you think
      you know and how do you think you know it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled, showing his teeth, then added, "Heroes and
      villains with magic and monsters and in a castle and with noble
      titles; it sounds like a story, doesn't it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned at Harry, "You're not having trouble with the
      difference between reality and fantasy are you? Because you getting
      schizophrenia would be really, really bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're living in a story, then the story is real to you",
      Luna added helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma shook her head, "No, no, no, no, no. It was bad enough
      last week when Harry tried to convince us we're probably all living
      inside of a muggle computer; don't you start trying to convince us
      we're fictional characters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lectured, "That's the result of a straightforward
      application of Bayes' Rule, with some reasonable assumptions about
      a mature civilization's ability to simulate intelligent beings and
      the number of simulated intelligences that would be created by a
      typical civilization, both directly and recursively. And when the
      existence of magic is added to the calculation, it raises the
      probability that all of this is a simulation even more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna replied, "And what happens to that calculation when you use
      the number of stories and characters instead of simulations and
      simulated people? I think there are more of those."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's different; the characters in stories aren't conscious
      like we are", Hermione challenged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're an expert on detecting consciousness now?" Harry
      teased. "Then tell me, is there something so special about calcium
      ion channels and neurotransmitters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed, "I guess I could believe that a simulation
      could be conscious, but not a fictional character."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So then, if you're okay with a conscious mind based on meat or
      one based on silicon, does it matter if the computer is made of
      something else; vacuum tubes or electromagnetic relays, for
      example?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what about something more exotic? It's been proposed that
      in any given universe Boltzmann brains will vastly outnumber
      evolved intelligences. They're created by quantum fluctuations in
      cold gas that randomly happen to produce a self-aware entity for
      the short period of time they remain intact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't really believe that, do you?" Padma asked. Hermione
      also looked skeptical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved dismissively, "Then forget that. Take the computer
      simulation and imagine that, instead of a physical computer,
      there's a person doing the calculations, whether they're encoding
      the results with a pencil and paper or maybe by lining up rocks in
      an extremely large plain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked thoughtful, "Maybe the rule should be that
      conscious entities can use any physical structure, unless it
      requires another conscious entity; then its thoughts are really
      part of that entity's consciousness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't work", Harry replied. "Imagine you're doing a
      pencil-and-paper simulation of two entities having a conversation
      in Chinese. You don't know Chinese, right? You could simulate the
      entire conversation without having any idea what it was about. So
      those entities' thoughts wouldn't exist in your own mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. That's just strange. I don't think it's right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think part of the problem is that it's easy to imagine
      consciousness being located inside of a brain or even a processor,
      but it's hard to imagine consciousness located on a piece of paper
      or in a graphite smudge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you could simulate an entity using multiple computers
      networked together; for example, with its visual cortex in one
      country and a cell cluster from its left frontal lobe in another.
      Any time you believed you knew where the conscious part was, you
      could physically separate those calculations and repeat until each
      computer simulated a single cell. Or atom. It's an error to picture
      consciousness located at any specific physical location."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione replied, "I don't know. Something has to be wrong with
      that; I just haven't thought of what yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma concluded, "I think you're all nuts. I'm going to assume
      only humans and human-like creatures can be intelligent or
      conscious until I meet something else that acts like it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is difficult to picture the causal relationship between
      writing numbers on paper and a conscious entity's thoughts. So
      maybe simulating the math at a low level isn't really necessary;
      maybe it's enough to develop a universe and a character and write
      their thoughts and behavior."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where and how are you drawing a line between the plausible and
      the ridiculous scenarios you've mentioned? Or do you think
      everything is conscious, and that Luna's right that we're more
      likely to be in a story than in real life?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It does seem silly that fictional characters (or
      pencil-and-paper simulated entities) would produce consciousness.
      Maybe it's all about the mathematics; for any mathematically
      consistent universe that would produce intelligent beings, those
      beings are conscious and aware of that universe, whether anyone's
      simulating it or not. That also solves the problem of where
      everything came from: it doesn't have to come from anywhere, it
      just has to be logically consistent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma shook her head, "I can't tell if you're being serious or
      not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled, "Yeah, I'm not really sure anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not really sure, either", added the author.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
