<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 1: Prologue, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 0: Prologue</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: Yes, yes, <em class="calibre7">obviously</em> I didn't invent these
      characters, yadda yadda.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Prologue</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">October 31, 1981</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The view out the window was dark. The new moon had come a few
      days before, and only a sliver of white showed in the sky. There
      were no electric lights to be seen either - the window looked out
      onto a small rear yard, sheltered from streetlights and traffic by
      enclosing buildings and fences.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the small room inside was warmly lit by a fire, and a pair
      of side-table lamps on either side of the sofa. One lamp
      illuminated the pages of the spy novel being read by a young
      brown-haired man in corduroy slacks and a beige sweater-vest. The
      other shone upon the non-fiction book - 'The Mismeasure of Man', as
      it happened - being read by a young brunette woman in a thick beige
      cardigan, her legs obscured by an afghan. The firelight itself
      danced merrily on the pages of a thinner book, pressed open on the
      floor by the stubby fingers of a two-year-old girl in a white
      nightgown. The flickers of orange and yellow made the illustrations
      of rabbits in waistcoats seem almost as if they might come to life
      at any moment, but the girl paid them little heed, her eyes instead
      lingering over the crisp black letters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though she knew the words by heart long since - she'd read the
      book more than once, after all - the girl often returned to it for
      pleasure. It had been the first book she'd read, a few months ago,
      and re-reading it reminded her of that first amazing thrill when
      she'd realized that these marks on paper - not pictures, mind you,
      just black marks they called 'letters' - could somehow turn into
      <em class="calibre7">words in her head</em>. It <em class="calibre7">was</em> rather magical, when
      you thought about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl was not in costume, and no children came to the door,
      for the American tradition of trick-or-treating had not yet made
      its way across the Atlantic, and the family was not one for
      fancy-dress parties. Not that the girl was much given to fancy in
      general - her imagination was thus far firmly focused upon deciding
      which book she would next ask her mother to fetch down from the
      high shelves. Nor would children calling upon this home on later
      Hallowe'ens leave with much satisfaction - the man and the woman
      were both dentists.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At around the same time, quite some distance West, something
      horrible was happening (and also, if one was of a sufficiently
      pragmatic bent to consider it so, something miraculous). None of
      the residents of the house were aware of it, or even of the context
      in which the event was taking place. Nor would they ever have even
      learned of it, but for one simple fact; a few years hence, a
      certain quill would write the name Hermione Jean Granger - and
      beside it her birth date - in a certain book, in a certain room, in
      a certain tower, in a certain castle, the very existence of any of
      which both she and her parents would have been equally unlikely to
      suspect at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then, look closely enough at anything important and you're
      <em class="calibre7">bound</em> to find a book in there somewhere, aren't you?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: If I'm interpreting the viewer stats correctly, more than
      50% of people apparently drop the fic in disgust/disinterest after
      reading solely this Prologue. If you're about to join them, are you
      <em class="calibre7">sure</em> it wouldn't be worth reading an actual chapter, just
      in case?</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
