<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 7 - Discrepancies, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: Discrepancies</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 7 - Discrepancies</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Great Hall was buzzing with whispers as Hermione sat down at
      the Ravenclaw table for dinner. Their content was mostly along the
      lines of what she'd heard outside the Library - that the school
      healer was dead - along with rumors and speculations as to what had
      happened. Among other things, she'd heard that it had been a rare
      and lingering disease she'd contracted while doing aid work in
      Borneo, that Peeves had finally managed to scare someone to death,
      that she'd sacrificed her own life in a grand ritual to permanently
      rid the world of Influenza, and that Professor Snape and a Beater
      for the Kenmare Kestrels (whatever that meant) were both secretly
      in love with her and she'd been killed by a stray spell as they
      dueled for her hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wasn't sure <em class="calibre7">how</em> to behave - no one she'd ever
      known had died, and she hadn't even <em class="calibre7">met</em> the school healer.
      She was certain she ought to feel sad, and felt a bit guilty that
      she didn't feel sadder, but trying to <em class="calibre7">make</em> herself feel
      sad didn't seem appropriate either. Hermione did point out to
      several people she overheard that all these rumors seemed
      implausible at best and disrespectful at worst, but received only
      dirty looks for her efforts. Maybe no one else knew how to behave
      either, and the gossip was just their way of filling in the gaps?
      Eventually, Professor Dumbledore stood, and everyone quickly
      quieted, waiting expectantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you have by now undoubtedly heard, earlier this afternoon
      Madam Pomfrey was found dead in the Hospital Wing." Only a few
      quiet murmurs followed, as indeed this was hardly a surprise. "Her
      death appears to have been a tragic accident...one of the lionfish
      spines in her supplies had somehow been contaminated with
      salamander blood, and the act of grinding it to powder - in a rare
      and unfortunate reaction - produced an invisible, odorless, and
      poisonous vapor, to which she succumbed. Though it may be slight
      comfort, Professor Snape assures me that the effects of the vapor,
      though deadly, would have been quite painless." At the Head Table,
      the Potions Professor, whose class Hermione didn't have until
      Thursday but who had been pointed out to her, nodded gravely. The
      expressions of the rest of the staff were a study in discomfort,
      ranging from Professor Trelawney, who was trying to appear
      unsurprised while wiping away genuine tears, to Professor Quirrell,
      who seemed genuinely terrified, to Professor McGonagall, who
      appeared to be grinding her teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fortunately," continued Dumbledore, "the Hospital Wing was
      otherwise unoccupied at the time, and the vapor quickly dissipated,
      so there were no other casualties. Nurse Wainscott will be taking
      on the duties of Hogwarts Healer and Matron for the time being, a
      position I am sure she will grow into." A dark-haired young woman
      at the Head Table looked exquisitely uncomfortable at the uncertain
      and scattered applause that followed this announcement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A memorial service will be held Thursday evening after dinner,
      and any evening classes will be cancelled both that day and
      tonight, to allow everyone an opportunity either to attend or for
      private reflection as they prefer. In times such as this, we must
      remember to cherish the good in one another, for even when we
      journey onward, our love and laughter remains behind, to brighten
      the world. But for now, please, eat. If not from appetite, then out
      of respect for Madam Pomfrey's tireless care for our collective
      health - nourishment of course included." The food appeared, and it
      was an assortment of appropriately un-elaborate and comforting
      dishes. While it was possible someone had instructed them
      specifically, Hermione reminded herself to express her appreciation
      to the house-elves in the kitchen later, in case it had been their
      own idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Conversation over the meal was subdued. Apparently without the
      distraction of speculation, most students were content to keep
      their thoughts to themselves. What few found the heart to speak
      were mostly upper-years, reminiscing fondly over injuries or
      maladies they'd had or seen treated by the talented healer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After dinner, once it became clear that the Library would not be
      re-opened, Hermione made her way back to her common room with most
      of the rest of the Ravenclaws.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Without moving, we hurt. Without touching, we poison. We carry
      every truth and form every lie. What are we?" intoned the
      knocker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone else got the answer first - Hermione was distracted by
      the inclusion of 'poison', which seemed highly inappropriate in
      light of the evening's tragedy. Maybe the door knocker, as smart as
      it seemed, didn't keep up with current events?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Ravenclaw common room quickly segregated according to the
      students' respective coping mechanisms. Though it was only the
      first day, the upper-years already had a significant amount of
      homework, and most took advantage of the cancellation of evening
      classes to throw themselves into it as a distraction. The bulk of
      the younger Ravenclaws, Hermione included, instead sought closure
      in understanding, and began searching the Tower Library for
      appropriate books that might explain the rare reaction between
      lionfish spines and salamander blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here…" said Roger Davies suddenly. "''Salamander blood has
      rejuvenating and strengthening properties, and thus is often
      employed in healing potions'..." he quoted from the book he
      held.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well obviously, if Madam Pomfrey had some, it'd be good for
      healing," quipped Marietta Edgecombe. Roger shot the second-year
      girl a look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't <em class="calibre7">finished</em>…" He cleared his throat elaborately,
      then continued reading aloud. "'In its dried form, however, when
      ground, the salamander's dynamic properties are invoked,
      encouraging the release of more potent essences from other
      materials. The prudent potioneer thus makes certain his ingredients
      are pure before any grinding step, as salamander blood
      contamination can produce unexpected results.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I s'pose she wasn't prudent enough," mused Kevin. Roger shook
      his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's just the thing," the third-year said with a frown, "she
      <em class="calibre7">was</em>. I never heard of her making a mistake at all, let
      alone one like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Hermione, "how does one check for the purity of
      ingredients, exactly? Just a visual inspection, or something more
      involved?" No one knew the answer to this question offhand, so they
      returned to the books, and eventually determined that identifying
      ingredient mixtures or contamination required careful testing with
      other substances that produced known reactions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, it's labor-intensive enough that you <em class="calibre7">could</em> do it
      every time, but in practice you'd need to rely on your supplier?"
      Hermione paraphrased. "Although...it sounds like that's for
      <em class="calibre7">identifying</em> contamination, specifically. Couldn't you just
      use a general cleaning charm on any ingredient before using it and
      be safe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose," said Cho. "Though I'm not sure they'd work right on
      <em class="calibre7">everything</em> without vanishing part of whatever it was you
      wanted to keep as well. But I'd think lionfish spines ought to be
      cleanable. As well as her mortar and pestle, obviously." Hermione
      frowned, and considered this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I imagine it might get tedious, always cleaning your
      ingredients beforehand, when they're supposed to be clean anyway.
      Even responsible people can become lax about things they're
      supposed to do regularly," she noted, thinking of her parents'
      regular complaints about people who were haphazard in brushing.
      Cavities and gum disease <em class="calibre7">could</em> actually become
      life-threatening in rare cases, so it wasn't a bad parallel. But
      Roger shook his head angrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think so...you didn't know her, it's just...no."
      Hermione didn't think much of Roger's objection in terms of logic,
      but he was clearly upset at the implication that it might actually
      be Madam Pomfrey's fault. She knew from her own practice that
      cleaning spells weren't particularly difficult to cast, though she
      hadn't tried casting any <em class="calibre7">repeatedly</em>...maybe it would get
      tiring? Or maybe using magic on potion ingredients beforehand might
      cause some side-effect just as bad as what you were trying to
      prevent?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't even <em class="calibre7">had</em> Potions yet, though I read the
      book, and it doesn't mention anything about cleaning spells,"
      Hermione offered, in a conciliatory tone. "Maybe there's some
      reason not to use them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's right...we've never used them during brewing, ever, only
      to clean up our workspaces afterwards," Roger said. "I have my
      first third-year Potions tomorrow, I can ask Professor Snape about
      it." Hermione nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure we can find an explanation for what happened, and it
      needn't reflect poorly on Madam Pomfrey," she said. "I was actually
      thinking of finding out where her supplies came from and sending an
      owl to inquire anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">These declarations seemed to satisfy everyone that there were no
      further immediate avenues for discovery, and the group broke up,
      heading to their respective dorms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione penned the first draft of a letter, but it was past
      curfew, so she'd need to wait until the morning to find out where
      to send the owl anyway. She spent the last couple hours before
      going to sleep continuing to read one of the - rare, as it turned
      out - books she'd found in the library that mentioned house elves
      more than in passing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd considered writing her parents as well, but she wondered
      what they would think if she mentioned that the school healer had
      died. Not exactly confidence-inspiring, that. They might even pull
      her out of the school. But writing and <em class="calibre7">not</em> mentioning
      Madam Pomfrey would be lying by omission. Better to wait to write
      at all until she had all the facts and could frame things in the
      best possible light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before falling asleep, she thought about the Weasley Twins. She
      supposed they'd heard about her reaction in Transfiguration class.
      Depending on what sort of bullies they were, either that would
      satisfy them and they'd move on, or it would only encourage
      them...but the way they'd framed things as a "war" suggested they
      weren't <em class="calibre7">solely</em> interested in cruelty for its own sake.
      She'd have to just try <em class="calibre7">re</em>-surrendering tomorrow morning,
      and hopefully that would put an end to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That night, she had troubling dreams that she couldn't quite
      remember upon waking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before breakfast, Hermione found her way to the kitchens once
      again. The choice of fare last night <em class="calibre7">had</em> been the elves'
      own notion, and she thanked them for their consideration. A few
      alluded to some past conflict with Madam Pomfrey - conflicting
      orders from her on appropriate nutrition, and from students who
      wanted special treats - but they held only the highest respect for
      her, as she had been as devoted to her job as they were to theirs.
      The elves were all quite pleased at being thanked, though, and
      seemed inclined to lavish Hermione with favors. Her protests and
      refusals took so long that by the time she escaped the kitchens,
      she had no time left to search out potion ingredient suppliers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione reached the Ravenclaw table just as the food was
      appearing, and sighed. Apparently at least one of the kitchen elves
      hadn't heard her strident refusals, or perhaps "hadn't heard" - in
      practice there did appear to be some leeway in the obedience clause
      of their contracts - because in addition to the other dishes, a
      plate of pancakes had appeared directly in front of her seat, which
      unlike the others was festooned liberally with whipped cream and
      sliced strawberries. The special treatment did not go
      unnoticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" said Michael Corner, a bit loudly, "Why've you got
      dessert for breakfast? Is it your birthday or something?" Hermione
      shook her head, but before she could explain another interjection
      cut in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's been down to the kitchen to butter up the help again, I
      expect," said Morag, who'd noticed Hermione's nearly-late arrival.
      Hermione gave her an exasperated look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't <em class="calibre7">buttering them up</em>," she protested, "I just
      wanted to <em class="calibre7">thank</em> them for their consideration with dinner
      last night." Morag shrugged, but did not look convinced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It did seem rather homey and normal," mused Padma. "Nice of
      them to think of it, I suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can find the kitchens after History of Magic today," Terry
      suggested to Michael, "and thank the elves for Hermione's
      pancakes...then tomorrow <em class="calibre7">we</em> should get 'em, and we can
      just keep on thanking them in turn and have dessert-breakfasts
      forever!" Hermione sighed again, and refrained from pointing out
      that they could likely simply <em class="calibre7">ask</em> for what they wanted and
      the house elves would bend over backwards to provide it, with or
      without thanks. If they <em class="calibre7">were</em> inclined to overindulge every
      day, at least this way they'd be showing some appreciation for
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is actually a bit much for breakfast, honestly, so you're
      welcome to share if-" She leaned back hastily as the boys lunged
      over the table to begin scraping her serving onto their own plates.
      Hermione replaced it with more sensible selections, though she
      couldn't help one wistful glance at the sliced strawberries as they
      vanished with alarming speed into Terry and Michael.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she'd finished eating, she got up and began to make her way
      toward the Gryffindor table, but Roger Davies rose as well and
      caught up to her first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," he said, a trifle awkwardly. "I just wanted to thank you
      for helping with - you know - finding out what happened, and not
      just assuming the worst."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh...it's no trouble. I suppose I'd want someone to do the same
      if something like that happened to me. Did you...know her well?"
      Hermione asked, not without her own awkwardness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sort of. I had a few spills first-year in Flying, and I got
      sick last year, so I've spent a lot of time in the hospital wing."
      He looked even more awkward, though Hermione wasn't sure why. She
      supposed he might be embarrassed about falling off a broomstick,
      but that didn't really fit with getting sick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'll let you know when I get any responses...I should be
      able to send the owls before dinner." He nodded and withdrew. Since
      it seemed so important to him, Hermione really hoped for Roger's
      sake that whatever they discovered <em class="calibre7">did</em> excuse Madam
      Pomfrey from responsibility, though she knew that was not a
      foregone conclusion. She resumed her path and arrived at the
      Gryffindor table, nodding at the friendly waves from Ron and Harry.
      Though her stomach felt unsettled as she neared and second-guessed
      her plan. Surrendering immediately hadn't worked yesterday, what if
      it only egged them on? Was there some other way?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Misters Weasley, could I have a word in private?" she said a
      bit stiffly, and Ron looked confused until he realized she was
      speaking to the Twins, at which point he still looked confused. The
      elder brothers shared a silent look, then shrugged and rose, each
      extending an arm away from the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After you - Miss Granger," they said, dividing the sentence and
      mimicking her formal tone with an added subtle hint of mockery.
      Hermione pursed her lips, but didn't comment, and preceded them to
      a deserted corner of the Great Hall. Once they arrived, the
      brothers didn't say anything, instead waiting for Hermione to
      start. She took a deep breath and tried to keep her voice
      steady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I'm sure you already know, I discovered yesterday that my
      Self-Inking Quill had been replaced somehow with a similar one that
      held Disillusioning Ink instead," she said, quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? - for shame!" they said, alternately. "It's shocking
      what some miscreants - get away with these days. Although, we've
      some familiarity with these matters, and we'd be surprised - if any
      notes that vanished hadn't come back by dinner tonight. Assuming
      you haven't re-used the parchment, anyway…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no," said Hermione. "They're back already...Professor
      McGonagall was kind enough to see to it." This casual remark was
      rewarded by an uncertain glance between the Twins. "At the time I
      decided not to name any likely suspects...though I <em class="calibre7">would</em>
      like the original quill back...it wasn't entirely inexpensive, and
      I suspect every time I have to use a spare I'll be thinking about
      it...if that happens too often, maybe a couple names <em class="calibre7">will</em>
      come to me," she mused theatrically. Though she tried to keep her
      face neutral, Hermione clutched her robes at her sides to keep her
      hands from shaking - she'd never actually tried
      <em class="calibre7">blackmailing</em> someone before, though she wasn't sure just
      getting her proper quill back really counted anyway. But the boys
      looked only a bit concerned, and even managed to appear mildly
      wounded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, Miss Granger...a true Pranktitioner of the Unexpected
      Arts is not a <em class="calibre7">thief</em>. I suspect, if we were to actually
      engage in such a caper - not that we're admitting complicity in any
      such thing - the victim might find, upon counting her stash of
      spare quills - that she had one more 'spare' than she expected."
      They looked quite pleased with themselves, and Hermione blinked in
      surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. Well...I hope this is the end of it? I have no intention of
      responding in kind, and I'm happy to publicly surrender again if
      you'd like. Any further incidents of this sort will only result in
      my own unhappiness and immediate appeals to authority. I really
      have better things to do with my time, and I'd <em class="calibre7">so</em> hoped
      that this school wouldn't be like my previous ones..." She'd
      planned here on using the sort of wistful guilt-inducing tone her
      mother was ever so good at, but she found that she couldn't help
      recalling her earlier school days vividly and was forced to swallow
      a genuine lump in her throat. The Twins shared a glance and their
      expressions grew more somber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our sincere apologies," they said in unison, bowing with
      elaborate arm flourishes and continuing their formal tone. "We'd
      been sure you would be a capable and enthusiastic opponent - and
      still think you <em class="calibre7">could</em> be. Accordingly, we will call this
      not surrender but rather negotiated truce - and you may consider
      our Prank War in abeyance until such time - if ever - that
      <em class="calibre7">you</em> wish to formally declare a renewal of hostilities - I
      actually think you mean 'festivities' there, Fred - ah, right you
      are George, renewal of <em class="calibre7">festivities</em>." Hermione wasn't sure
      how to react to this unexpected show of respect. In the face of her
      old memories, it threatened to overwhelm her fragile emotional
      state in the <em class="calibre7">opposite</em> direction. She took a moment to
      compose herself and decide how exactly to respond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Accepted. For what it's worth, all told it's the...well, the
      <em class="calibre7">second</em>-most considerate prank I've ever fallen victim to,"
      she admitted, thinking of the Hufflepuff on the train. People were
      beginning to file out of the Great Hall at this point and after
      each giving Hermione a nod, the Twins joined the flow, talking as
      they went.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre7">was</em> downright gallant of us, wasn't it George? We
      could've at least left the original quill in the castle eaves or a
      loo or something... - No other word for it, Fred, Knights Errant of
      Pranking, we are - of course we can't afford to get a reputation
      for <em class="calibre7">consideration</em> - obviously not, we just need to focus
      on more <em class="calibre7">deserving</em> targets for a bit - so we'll not be as
      inclined towards mercy…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head and joined the throng of students
      heading to class as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's schedule for Tuesday was identical to Monday's, with
      the exception of History of Magic in fifth period, so she caught up
      with Ron and Harry on their way to Charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that about, with Fred and George?" Ron asked, as she
      joined them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm honestly not sure...they're very peculiar, aren't they? But
      I was just trying to put their ridiculous 'Prank War' to rest," she
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh...pity," said Ron, looking disappointed. "After your trick
      with Scabbers, I was sort of hoping you'd give them a proper run."
      Hermione grimaced and sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's so much to learn here...we really don't have time for
      that sort of thing, even if I <em class="calibre7">were</em> so inclined, which I'm
      not. Besides, I still regret that and-" she broke off, her hand
      going to her mouth in horror. Ron and Harry noticed she'd stopped
      walking and turned back, looking confused and concerned,
      respectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Ron, I've just realized about Scabbers...I am <em class="calibre7">so</em>
      sorry…" The Gryffindors shared a baffled look, then turned it upon
      Hermione. She looked even more uncomfortable, assuming their
      confusion meant they hadn't found out yet. "He must've been in the
      hospital wing with Madam Pomfrey, when...the vapor…" she trailed
      off, her expression stricken. As Ron realized what she meant, his
      expression became surprised, but not unhappy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey...he dodged a bludger there, I hadn't even thought of
      that!" he admitted. Now it was Hermione's turn to be confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He...dodged...what?" she asked, baffled on more than one
      level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Scabbers was already in our room when we got back from Defence
      Against the Dark Arts," explained Harry. "Madam Pomfrey must have
      finished her examination and dropped him off there before…it
      happened." Hermione nearly collapsed in relief, though it was
      short-lived as she realized they were nearly late for Charms, and
      she hurried everyone along.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Charms class was mildly irritating. Lavender Brown had
      apparently somehow lost her wand already, so Hermione (who'd
      clearly already mastered the Wand-lighting Charm) had to share her
      wand with the Gryffindor girl, then listen to her frequent
      complaints about how it didn't feel right as she tried to coach her
      through casting the spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, how could you misplace something so important?"
      Hermione eventually asked, exasperated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't <em class="calibre7">misplace</em> it, I <em class="calibre7">know</em> I had it in
      Defence yesterday, and I put it in my bag afterward. I didn't go
      looking for it until now, and my bag hasn't been out of my sight
      except for while I was sleeping. Besides, you saw Professor
      Flitwick cast all those spells trying to find it, and he
      couldn't...it must be one of those weird Hogwarts things that the
      upper-years say are always happening." Hermione frowned at this,
      but <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, a History</em> did have a great many mentions of
      odd things that had never been properly explained. Still, it was an
      article of faith for her that everything <em class="calibre7">had</em> an
      explanation, even if no one had managed to figure one out yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what I'll do if it doesn't turn up soon," Lavender
      continued, oblivious to Hermione's skepticism. "I suppose my
      parents will have to take me back to Ollivander's to find a new
      one. Which is a pity, as I <em class="calibre7">so</em> liked the original...fir and
      unicorn hair, ten inches, just a hint of spring…" She sighed
      elaborately, staring into the distance as if pining over a lost
      love. When Hermione cleared her throat gently, the flighty
      Gryffindor came back to herself and grimaced at the wand in her
      hand as if it were a spoiled sausage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe Peeves took it, they say he goes everywhere, even our
      <em class="calibre7">bedrooms</em>," suggested Hannah from her adjacent desk, her
      tone scandalized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it's any consolation, he may <em class="calibre7">look</em> like a little
      man, but he's not really. I've read he's not a proper ghost...he
      was never actually alive to begin with," Hermione pointed out,
      trying to reassure Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still...yuck," she said, and Hermione could only shrug and
      nod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Charms finally finished, and mercifully Herbology still didn't
      involve any wandwork, so Hermione was able to reclaim her wand from
      Lavender. For just a moment, she wanted to stroke it and murmur
      soothingly to it, but that felt a little too close to the other
      girl's irritating feelings for her own wand, and she refrained.
      Still, it couldn't hurt to try and pick up some wand cleaner...she
      wasn't <em class="calibre7">certain</em> that she was only imagining being able to
      see Lavender's oily fingerprints on it…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Defence class passed uneventfully, although Professor Quirrell
      was behaving oddly in a significantly different way than he had
      yesterday. Instead of jumping at noises and looking around
      shiftily, he stared off into the distance as if lost in thought,
      often for minutes at a time, sometimes in the middle of a sentence.
      Of course, when someone cleared their throat to snap him out of it,
      <em class="calibre7">then</em> he'd jump. At first it was prompting from Hermione,
      who only wanted to minimize the interruptions to their education,
      but later it was largely the Slytherins, who delighted in having a
      legitimate excuse to provoke such a reaction from the
      Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Transfiguration turned out to be surprisingly uncomfortable, in
      an unexpected way. The class proceeded as it had yesterday (albeit
      without the introductory warnings and agreement), with lecture and
      discussion for the first half, then practice for the second. After
      Professor McGonagall handed out the matchsticks, Hermione briefly
      reviewed her now-restored notes and dove straight in. In
      considerably less than a minute, she had a brilliantly shining
      needle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, can you tell us <em class="calibre7">now</em> how you're doing that so
      fast?" asked Su Li. Most of the nearby students immediately turned
      to listen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just like the book and Professor McGonagall say, compare,
      contrast then conform. Just...it helps to be as <em class="calibre7">detailed</em>
      as you can," she began, slowly. But she realized that wouldn't help
      them much if they didn't <em class="calibre7">understand</em> the details, and she'd
      promised the Professor not to share her scientific insights with
      the students until the woman herself had learned enough muggle
      science to ensure general safety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought I <em class="calibre7">had</em> been," said Padma. "Here, let me see
      your notes," she continued, moving to read over Hermione's
      shoulder. Instinctively, Hermione flipped the small stack of
      parchment over, hiding the writing. The look of surprise and
      <em class="calibre7">offence</em> on the girl's face immediately made Hermione feel
      awful. She was about to hastily explain her promise to the
      Professor, but she paused to consider the implications. Just giving
      them the <em class="calibre7">idea</em> would complicate things, if they knew any
      science at all they'd have to make the same promise...and if they
      didn't understand science as well as her, they might not take it
      quite so seriously. Furthermore, if she just told them she'd
      promised McGonagall not to say without explaining why, it'd seem
      like she was "conspiring" with a Professor, which from past
      experience would not go well. And if she just refused and didn't
      say <em class="calibre7">anything</em> about why she was refusing…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So that's how it is?" asked Morag, softly. "It's fine tae help
      with things like wand-licht, but when it comes tae <em class="calibre7">real</em>
      magic, it's every witch for herself, hmm?" Padma's expression
      hardened, even as Hermione's grew more unhappy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like that," Hermione protested, but had no words to
      continue with. Padma went back to her seat without another word and
      Morag nodded. Even worse, all of the nearby Slytherins were giving
      her looks that Hermione could only call <em class="calibre7">appraising</em>...like
      they were positively updating their estimations of her deviousness,
      or worthiness - for the few that might even consider those two
      concepts separable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Diligent practice, I suspect, will serve you much better in the
      long run than conversation," Professor McGonagall called out primly
      from the front of the classroom. Everyone turned back to their
      matchsticks, with only occasional glances at Hermione, who couldn't
      decide if the Professor had done her a favor or not by cutting the
      discussion short.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When class was over, she didn't linger to ask the Professor for
      advice - there was no sense in giving anyone more ammunition, and
      anyway she still had a new class to get to, today. Besides, just
      because she hadn't been able to think of a solution in an hour's
      time didn't mean there wasn't one to be found.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took a seat in the History of Magic classroom, and felt
      a familiar tightness in her chest as some Ravenclaws deliberately
      left empty desks between themselves and her. But she told herself
      it was for the best anyway, until she worked out how to handle the
      situation, trying to ignore the whispers she couldn't quite make
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though she knew what to expect, having read about Professor
      Binns in <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, a History</em>, Hermione jumped a little
      with most of the other students when the ghost entered the
      classroom, not through the doorway, but by simply floating straight
      through the chalkboard at the front. In a low drone, the
      translucent, wizened figure began to take roll, seemingly oblivious
      that no one responded to any of the names he read off, none of
      which sounded familiar at all. Hermione would've attempted to point
      this out, but he turned his back on the class and launched straight
      into a droning lecture, scrawling notes onto the chalkboard as he
      spoke in blurry and illegible ghost-chalk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students collectively shrugged and began to take notes or
      quietly talk amongst themselves, according to their individual
      predilection. Even Hermione found it difficult to pay attention and
      take proper notes, as the old ghost's voice seemed to have a
      hypnotic quality. She brought all of her late-night study-focus
      tricks to bear, but even she still found her attention wandering to
      the problem of her Transfiguration insights. Of course her
      housemates liking her wasn't as important as <em class="calibre7">safety</em>, but
      she still thought it unfair. And unfair to them as well, as they
      could be doing just as well as her if they had the right
      information. Maybe Professor McGonagall would let the other
      Ravenclaws sit in on their science tutoring?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The students jolted back to attention (or consciousness,
      depending) when the class bell rang. Professor Binns asked them to
      write fourteen inches on the establishment of the International
      Confederation of Wizards by next week and Hermione glanced
      suspiciously at her notes, unsure of whether she'd actually missed
      something, or if the ghost was giving them homework entirely
      unrelated to what he'd been lecturing on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank Merlin we've only got him once a week," sighed Daphne.
      "Much more napping would mess up my sleeping schedule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we all know you need all the beauty sleep you can get,"
      sneered Pansy. The bigger Slytherin girl was in fact considerably
      less pretty than Daphne, but the latter grimaced slightly and
      didn't offer a comeback.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione absently noted the byplay and added it to her mental
      tallies of Slytherin behavior, but left the classroom without
      delay, heading straight for the library. She needed to get the
      information about suppliers for the Hospital wing and send owls,
      resume her reading on house elves and continue her efforts to make
      sense of Madam Pince's organization of the library, catch Professor
      McGonagall at some point to schedule their extra lessons and ask
      about including her housemates in them...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she walked to the Owlery to post her letters, Hermione
      thought about what she'd read. The information about house elves
      sounded well-reasoned, but it didn't seem to be supported by any
      actual historical references. This in itself wasn't necessarily
      damning - witches and wizards didn't seem to use many footnotes or
      bibliographies in <em class="calibre7">any</em> of their books - but it did sort of
      remind her of early Classical philosophers, who tended to judge the
      truth of explanations largely by how they <em class="calibre7">sounded</em>. Once
      they found one that sounded "true", they stopped looking, even if
      there might have been other explanations that actually <em class="calibre7">fit</em>
      better. Hermione found it hard to imagine an <em class="calibre7">elf</em> coming up
      with what she'd read as something to <em class="calibre7">do</em> rather than a
      Wizard coming up with it to try to explain something that already
      <em class="calibre7">was</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bit about the clothes, for example. The very few modern
      wizards who'd chosen to write at all about house elves explained it
      as an exchange of loyalty and dependence. Clothes were, above a
      basic level of modesty and personal comfort, an expression of
      <em class="calibre7">status</em>. Since an elf properly bound to a house was
      considered simply an extension of the family's wishes, they had no
      <em class="calibre7">need</em> to display their own status, and given their size it
      wasn't hard to satisfy modesty with whatever happened to be lying
      around. Further, a loyal elf would always put her family's comfort
      above her own, plus spend most of her time in a comfortable home
      anyway. Clothes were thus obviously an unnecessary distraction,
      except in the rare case of an elf being dismissed (they did not use
      the term 'freed', Hermione noted). Though few wizards would
      apparently take on an elf so disgraced, it was judged a generous
      mercy that they be allowed to present their best face to
      prospective employers, which is why being presented proper clothing
      was the magical trigger for ending an elf's contract.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione found herself dissatisfied with the situation, but at a
      loss for what to do about it. Particularly since the elves
      themselves seemed quite opposed to any efforts to change their
      conditions, or even to discuss them in that context. Maybe if they
      were just <em class="calibre7">used</em> to how things were, she could think of some
      way to get them interested, thinking about the possibilities?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once her letters to potion ingredient suppliers were off on
      various owls, she went in search of Professor McGonagall's office,
      and after being forced to backtrack a couple times, she managed to
      locate it. As she was about to knock, Hermione noticed the schedule
      of office hours helpfully affixed next to the door, which indicated
      that the professor was currently teaching sixth-year NEWT
      Transfiguration. In fact, the only time before curfew that she
      <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> teaching classes was Fridays between eight and nine
      in the evening, or the weekend. Hermione frowned, discouraged, and
      regretted not trying to catch the professor on her way out of the
      Great Hall after dinner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger?" Hermione was not ordinarily a particularly jumpy
      person, but having just vividly imagined what Professor McGonagall
      might be teaching sixth-years at this very moment, when she heard
      the professor's voice behind her, she barely stopped herself from
      shrieking. The woman's lips twitched, but her eyes showed only
      concern. "My apologies, I didn't intend to startle you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not your fault, just the schedule…" she pointed over her
      shoulder, then wondered why the professor <em class="calibre7">was</em> here if she
      was supposed to be teaching, and trailed off in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As a duty to my students, I do keep to that schedule, though it
      is not <em class="calibre7">impossible</em> to find me elsewhere, if I have other
      business," the professor explained. This did seem to make sense,
      though there was something about the way she'd said it that felt
      <em class="calibre7">odd</em> to Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I can come again later if you're busy…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you've come to work out when we shall be having our
      'lessons', that certainly qualifies as 'other business'," noted
      Professor McGonagall, arching an eyebrow. Hermione nodded, and
      followed her into the office, taking a seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think, given my other duties, it shall have to be weekends,
      though I suppose if more time is required I could give you a note
      to allow you to visit my office after curfew." The girl blinked at
      this, but nodded again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure how to go about this, Professor...I've helped
      people of course, but I've never officially <em class="calibre7">tutored</em> anyone
      before. I did bring some basic books for you to start with…"
      Hermione extracted three books from her bag, introductory texts on
      chemistry, biology and physics. Professor McGonagall accepted them,
      then flipped through the top one, blinking slightly at the small
      font size and color - but un-animated - photos and illustrations.
      "You'll need at least some basic maths...are you familiar with
      algebra and statistics?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the professor's blank expression, Hermione began to worry,
      but some brief back-and-forth established that Arithmancy did cover
      similar bases, though with some differing terminology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here is my suggestion, then," said the professor. "Each week, I
      shall read a chapter from each and take notes of any concepts which
      seem confusing or unfamiliar, then we can meet and you can attempt
      to clarify matters. After a session or two, it should become clear
      how much time we will require, and whether more than one meeting
      per week is indicated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems sensible, though I wondered if it would be possible
      to include the other Ravenclaws as well?" The professor
      frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should think not...at least until I have a sufficient grasp
      of the material to gauge its dangers." She noted Hermione's
      slightly crestfallen expression with a weighing look of her own.
      "Why do you ask?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really do like showing other people what I've learned, and
      they were asking. But you'd said not to, and...some of them think
      I'm not sharing <em class="calibre7">deliberately</em>, so I can...look better than
      them." Even as she felt the injustice of it anew, Hermione also
      felt a bit guilty, saying it out loud. Knowing things other people
      didn't <em class="calibre7">had</em> always made her proud, so much so that it was
      hard to resist <em class="calibre7">showing</em>. But she'd never imagined trying to
      <em class="calibre7">keep</em> other people down...not that she'd ever really had
      peers, much less significant rivals...there'd really been no one
      <em class="calibre7">to</em> keep down. On the contrary, she'd often <em class="calibre7">wished</em>
      she knew people who found everything as <em class="calibre7">interesting</em> as she
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you not explain to them the prohibition I'd given you?"
      Hermione shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's...well, I've noticed that classmates sometimes...don't
      like it if someone is too friendly with the teacher?" The professor
      pursed her lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">am</em> familiar with the concept, Miss Granger, I was
      once a young student myself. But you might try giving your fellow
      Ravenclaws the benefit of the doubt...they are, after all, as eager
      to learn as you, and thus perhaps more willing than some to take a
      professor's judgement and instructions at face value?" Hermione
      nodded. She had to admit, this hadn't occurred to her at all. She
      wasn't exactly <em class="calibre7">relieved</em> - it did make her feel a bit
      better, but at the same time worse, because she'd assumed the worst
      of her housemates, possibly unjustly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, curfew is nearly upon us, but before you head to your
      dormitory, I would like you to try to explain your theory about
      Moira Leigh-Smith, making allowances for the fact that I have yet
      to even <em class="calibre7">begin</em> to gain what I presume is the proper
      context." Hermione blinked. It'd have to be very generalized...but
      it might also be useful...she'd always found learning even easier
      if she had some goal of understanding she was working towards. The
      professor waited patiently as the young Ravenclaw tried to choose
      the words to explain radioactivity without using any concepts more
      modern than the sixteenth century or so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um. So, muggles have found certain...substances...that are, I
      guess you could say they're constantly Transfiguring themselves
      into something else...or no, not really, because they don't
      <em class="calibre7">want</em> anything, it's just happening, because...er...the way
      they are <em class="calibre7">inside</em> is unstable...like each tiny bit of the
      substance is a pile of salt on top of tiny circular pedestal...and
      when I say tiny bit I mean <em class="calibre7">much</em> tinier than a single grain
      of salt...and if there's too much salt it spills grains off of the
      edges? That's actually a pretty good analogy, because, well, these
      substances, as they change, they <em class="calibre7">cast off</em> little bits
      of...not themselves, exactly, but <em class="calibre7">other</em> substances, or
      sometimes just energy...and anyway, those substances can, when they
      hit certain other substances, or even sometimes the air, cause a
      glow. But they <em class="calibre7">also</em> can do <em class="calibre7">really bad things</em> to,
      ah, the smallest parts of a living creature, and worse if the
      original substances get somehow taken inside <em class="calibre7">first.</em> And
      until fairly recently those bad parts weren't really
      <em class="calibre7">common</em> knowledge, so I could see someone maybe trying to
      do that if they'd only <em class="calibre7">sort of</em> understood it…" Hermione
      trailed off, and watched the professor hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall's eyes flicked down to the books, and for
      the briefest instant Hermione thought she might've seen
      <em class="calibre7">trepidation</em> in the woman's face, but if she did it was
      quickly buried under firm, if perhaps grim, determination.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
