<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 9 - Independent Study, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: Independent Study</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: Thanks to torac for pointing out a word-drop mistake in
      Chapter 8, and feepingcreature, who introduced me to FF dot net's
      endearing abhorrence for links, even to itself, and RMcD94 for
      correcting my flub on "How to <em class="calibre7">Win</em> Friends and Influence
      People" and stringless for another typo. Apologies again to Enoket,
      I've updated the author's note at the bottom of Chapter 5 (where
      I'd said I'd reveal it in Chapter 6) so people aren't expecting the
      answer to the riddle right away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, <em class="calibre7">sincere</em> apologies for my lack of updates for so
      long. Life gets in the way and all that, but I <em class="calibre7">swear</em> I'll
      keep at this doggedly until it's at least one complete-ish story, I
      just can't guarantee a particular schedule. Thanks to everyone who
      has continued to offer encouraging reviews and PM's in the interim,
      it really keeps my spirits up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Edit: Thanks to ZeroNihilist for the Brit-pick (missed a
      "mommy") and who noted that only the movies were
      sexist/stereotyping, and in canon Beauxbatons is not an all-girls'
      school!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 9 - Independent Study</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sat at one of the library tables, her papers spread out
      across more than half the available surface. Her list had grown
      long enough that, along with her cumulative notes on each topic, it
      now took up a great many sheets of parchment. She'd even had to go
      into her trunk for some of her extra sheets, which she originally
      hadn't expected to need for at least a couple more weeks - she made
      a mental note to owl-order more. She'd tried to keep the first page
      relatively clean, though - as a sort of table of contents - and
      once again glanced over it, trying to confirm what was most
      important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Architectural Charms? Or entirely alternate physics around
      enough magical activity?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Goblins - why can't they just make their own wands? Another
      Secrecy Statute?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Teleportation? (Disapparition/Apparition)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Electronics fail around magic. Electricity in general? But
      what about biological electric fields?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Incantation pronunciations - "original" Latin? Why Latin
      and not Greek?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~How are spells constructed?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Classmates' pre-hogwarts education</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~How does the Sorting work?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Why is Slytherin being pre-poisoned?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Ghosts?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Book - "Hat's Off" (ref back to sorting) - who mentioned
      that, a fourth year boy?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">+House Elves - Slaves? History - origin of binding magic,
      servitude?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">+Potion ingredient supplier(s) - purity/cleaning?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Science education for Prof. McGonagall - adult teaching
      methods/teaching in general</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Owls - intuitive navigation? Understand English? Are they
      just a magic sub-species, or are all owls like this, and if
      so,</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>how</span></em><em class="calibre7">? Secrecy Statute again? Owls
      understand</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>laws</span></em><em class="calibre7">?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her work with Professor McGonagall was probably of the most
      immediate significance, but she wasn't sure what she could do
      there. She hadn't read and or brought any proper books on how to
      <em class="calibre7">teach</em> complex subjects, and the Hogwarts Library hadn't
      been much help there either - if the Professors used books to help
      improve their teaching methods, they seemingly hadn't obtained them
      here. Though she found it hard to be <em class="calibre7">certain</em> of that,
      given the horribly inefficient organization of the Library. There
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> the Restricted Section, but she couldn't think of an
      obvious reason at the moment why abstract educational theory would
      be in there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again, she thought, if she could find some way to improve
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> situation, then everything else ought to become much
      simpler...which just reaffirmed her earlier determination that an
      effort towards library efficiency was the best thing she could do
      <em class="calibre7">now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione slid over a fresh sheet of parchment and began mentally
      reviewing all the spells she'd seen so far, in the <em class="calibre7">Standard
      Book of Spells</em> (Grade 1 and 2), <em class="calibre7">Practical Household
      Magic</em>, and incidental discussion in classes or with other
      students - noting down any that related to finding, fetching,
      organizing. Even if there wasn't anything immediately suitable
      (which she didn't think there was, or she could've used it to help
      find Neville's toad), maybe she could start to see patterns in
      spell elements and make some headway on spell construction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Reminder Charm - plays short voice "recording" up to 3
      hours later - memory storage, timing</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Housewitch's Secret - Copies down recipe used to prepare a
      dish (provides spell names, but not instructions or potion
      ingredients, ref. "Scarpin's Revelaspell"?) - analysis,
      decomposition</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Packing Spell (advanced) - Moves a large number of
      belongings into a container (but does so with most efficient use of
      space possible) - satisficing</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Amnesia Detection Charm - Makes you glow if you've
      forgotten something (but doesn't tell you what, which sort of makes
      sense, except</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>how</span></em><em class="calibre7">, then?) -
      self-telepathy + consistency? "divination"?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Place-setting Charm - Sets out tableware properly for the
      desired number of guests - patterning, partitioning</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Intruder Charm - Sounds alarm if "intruder" enters area,
      can distinguish between individuals? -
      identification/classification</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Assembly Charm - Assembles something if all the proper
      parts are present (even if caster does not know how, manually?) -
      patterning</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Repairing Charm - Reassembles something, if all of the
      proper parts are present - patterning</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Four-Point Spell - Points wand north (which? Surely not
      magnetic north?) - gyro- or magneto-metry or "divination",
      "sourceless" knowledge?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~Summoning Charm ~ Floats an item directly to you as long as
      there's an open path, even around corners. No firm distance limit,
      but depends on strength of casting, familiarity of item, size of
      item. Spell takes an "argument", like a Pascal function, in plain
      English - can be very specific or vague up to some unspecified
      limit, spell generally does what you intend - Location, navigation,
      comprehension(!), identification</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She couldn't think of anything else at the moment, and
      considered what she'd gathered. The Summoning Charm really was
      shockingly flexible and useful, almost as if there was an
      intelligence behind it. But none of her reading thus far had
      suggested there were sapient <em class="calibre7">intermediaries</em> in the effects
      of any spells. Could it be borrowing the caster's mind somehow? It
      was a more advanced spell, but if she could manage to cast it just
      a few times, she might do some tests, see if she was slower at
      maths or something while the spell was operating. But something
      about the idea of an external agency, and the Place-setting Charm,
      kept teasing at the edge of her mind. Tablewear, tables...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's train of thought was interrupted as she noticed extra
      writing had begun to appear on her parchment, from the bottom of
      the page up, and furthermore upside-down. She stared. It wasn't as
      if it were being written by an unseen hand exactly, but rather each
      line fading into view...as if a temporary Disillusionment charm was
      gradually wearing off the ink. Which now that she thought about it
      actually seemed quite likely, considering recent events, but when
      she rotated the page around to read the words, she was no less
      confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">but without deliberate effort? Send owl to Beauxbatons
      library to check, but how do I get a reply without alerting Y.H.?
      Buy owl, instruct it to wait for reply and then wait in Hogwarts
      owlery when it returns?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Next, what changed (</em><em class="calibre7"><span>not</span></em> <em class="calibre7">like
      T.T. -</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>why</span></em><em class="calibre7">)? O. knows something, but
      what? "Destiny"? Could owl him, but if he is willing to Obliviate,
      what else might he do? Also,</em> <em class="calibre7">too soon</em> <em class="calibre7">after I
      "arrived" for a butterfly effect. Could T.D. have also come, but
      earlier? And then N.T...and P.P. on the train…anything before that?
      After...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm so sorry, Poppy. My fault. Should deal with P.P., but
      Merlin help me, "damage is done", he's likely to just go back to
      hiding until he's forced out. Unless T.R. notices...and how could
      he not?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can feel myself slipping, but even when she's asleep, it's
      so hard to even think clearly without risking pushing Y.H. out
      entirely. I may not have much time. Such irony, even D.R. would get
      it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Just tell A.D. everything? Could</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>save
      him</span></em>, <em class="calibre7">save a great many people, but still might
      provoke backlash, make things <span>worse</span>. Hold off for now,
      but also prepare for the worst - have to leave comprehensive notes
      somewhere secure just in case, try to limit damage to ~~ to
      ~~~</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">~~ test X X ~ test oh,</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">honestly</strong></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first theory that occurred to Hermione was that this was
      another, <em class="calibre7">deeper</em> level to the Weasley Twins' prank, though
      it was more bewildering than vexing, which did not exactly argue in
      favor of that explanation. Also, under the circumstances, including
      references to Madam Pomfrey seemed further than they were likely to
      go. Plus, by the time she'd reached the end, her heart was
      unaccountably fluttering in her chest, and she somehow
      <em class="calibre7">knew</em> that this was real, it was important. And it was
      <em class="calibre7">dangerous</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which was utter nonsense, she told herself. Knowledge came from
      <em class="calibre7">evidence</em> combined with <em class="calibre7">logic</em>. Where was either in
      these cryptic notes, or this mysterious alarm she felt? By all
      rights she should take this immediately to Professor Flitwick (or
      maybe Professor McGonagall, who had some relevant background
      information already even if she wasn't Hermione's Head of House),
      explain how they'd "appeared", and then let him handle it. If it
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> the Weasley Twins, she'd given them fair warning, and
      they deserved whatever came of it. If it <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em>, if her
      strange foreboding was somehow correct, then telling a responsible
      adult was <em class="calibre7">also</em> the right thing to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione closed her eyes and took a few deep breaths, which is
      the first thing the best book on anxiety she'd read had said to do,
      when you suspected you were having a panic attack. Next was to
      acknowledge the situation. <em class="calibre7">I am feeling fear. Fear is a signal
      of danger, fear itself can't hurt me unless I do something in
      reaction - unless there is real danger, in which case I should go
      somewhere safe. Even if my fear is illogical, it does not mean
      something is wrong with me, it just means some part of my brain is
      interpreting something differently than my conscious awareness. So.
      Is there danger?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She opened her eyes and looked at the parchment again, slowly,
      word by word. She felt a certain <em class="calibre7">unease</em>, but no immediate
      sense of panic. <em class="calibre7">The first line is cut off. This is a
      continuation of another page of notes.</em> Hermione quickly sorted
      through her other notes, and the other blank parchment she had with
      her, but nothing else showed unexpected writing. <em class="calibre7">"without
      deliberate effort?" The writer is confused that something has
      happened spontaneously. Something that might be found in the
      library of France's premier magical school? Wait, they send owls as
      far as France? That seems-</em> Hermione shook her head,
      interrupting herself. <em class="calibre7">Don't get off track. "Y.H." Initials were
      used in various places, the writer did not expect the notes to be
      read, but wanted them to be unclear just in case. Do I know anyone
      with the initials Y. H.?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione thought for a moment, but couldn't think of anyone, let
      alone someone who might be at Hogwarts and would be alerted by an
      owl. Still, she was feeling better, breaking things down,
      analysing, step-by-step. <em class="calibre7">This</em> was how you solved problems
      involving <em class="calibre7">writing</em> - an elevated heart-rate was helpful for
      running away from wild animals (and even then, only if you didn't
      know better), not for thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But...why would anyone be alerted by an owl, since they
      (somehow) know whom to bring replies to directly? Does someone at
      Hogwarts monitor owl traffic? Some administration staff who isn't a
      professor and isn't mentioned in Hogwarts, A History?</em> She
      frowned, and considered the next sentence. <em class="calibre7">Is there a registry
      of owls in Hogwarts, who owns which? See if someone has recently
      bought an owl?</em> Hermione made another brief note on a clean
      sheet, underneath where she'd already written "<em class="calibre7">knowledge unique
      to Beauxbatons library?</em>" and <em class="calibre7">"Y.H.?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Changed,</em> she thought, upon re-reading the next bit.
      <em class="calibre7">Something has changed, which is not like the writer would
      expect of "T.T."</em> Again she couldn't think of anyone by those
      initials except Tina Turner, which seemed quite unlikely - unless
      she was secretly a witch? - and the only other thing that came to
      mind was "Triwizard Tournament", which also didn't seem to make any
      sense in context.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">O. knows something, but what?</em> Provided with the clues
      "single initial, one name or well-known" and "starts with O",
      Hermione's memory immediately answered, "Ollivander". The wandmaker
      had certainly seemed very mysterious and knowledgeable, so she
      supposed that might imply he knew things you wouldn't expect?
      Things about...whatever it was the writer was concerned about, but
      even <em class="calibre7">she</em> isn't sure what those might be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She read the next word, and once again her heart started racing.
      <em class="calibre7">No. Stop. It's just a word. It's not even a word that describes
      a concept I believe in at all.</em> But for all her mental
      insistence, her fear rose, and her gaze flicked along the
      paragraph, bouncing in a frenetic triangle between "O.", "Destiny"
      and "Obliviate". She closed her eyes again, but before she could
      try to even begin taking deep breaths, she felt a sudden dizziness,
      and then she <em class="calibre7">saw</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Hermione Granger," she said, after offering her hand
      politely. At her name, the man stiffened slightly in the act of
      shaking her hand. Huh?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Just so," he whispered, in a strange echo of himself. For a
      moment he just stared at her, until Hermione began to shift
      uncomfortably, and he seemed to shake himself out of a daze.
      "Muggle-born, I see," he noted, glancing down at her clothes, "I
      suppose you've no hint of your ancestry...magical, that is?"
      Hermione shrugged. Is it just me, or...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">If anyone in our family has known about magic, they
      certainly never mentioned it to us - we were all quite surprised -
      though it sounds like they would've been</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">expected</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">to keep it to themselves?"
      The old man nodded, then began to peruse the shelves, muttering to
      himself. Ollivander was acting peculiar - or more peculiar, rather
      - this isn't how I remember this happening. Have I already changed
      things somehow?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No, no...no...I know it's here somewhere." He moved further
      into the shop and climbed most of the way up a ladder, craning his
      neck to examine more out-of-the-way boxes. "Have to try it of
      course, after so</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">long</strong></em><em class="calibre7">…ah." The
      old man stretched an arm up to extract a box from a shelf near the
      ceiling, then clambered back down to rejoin Hermione. The box was
      actually itself made of wood, carved with intricate vines. He slid
      back the lid and withdrew a delicate-looking wand of a pale tan
      wood. "Muggle-born...which hand do you write with?" he asked.
      He</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">knew</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">which wand was hers, on
      the first try? And what was that odd wooden box it was in? This
      isn't right at all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Right," said Hermione, raising that hand. Ollivander
      extended the wand to her, thick end first. It had been intricately
      carved, making it seem as if six vines had twined around each other
      to form the shaft. She took the wand gently, her fingertips
      nestling easily into the gaps in the carving, and at the man's
      urging motion, waved it through the air. Immediately the tip gave
      off white sparks. That part is familiar, at least...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Now the left," he said, leaning forward slightly. Hermione
      obediently switched the wand to her left hand and waved it
      similarly. This time, a thin line of blue vapor trailed behind the
      wand's tip, swirling slightly in the air. Ollivander's eyes
      widened. "There it is, then," he whispered. Hermione gave the
      wandmaker a somewhat vexed look. That came from</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">me</strong></em><em class="calibre7">, not her! What in Merlin's name is
      going</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">on</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">here? How can he
      possibly-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Um. I have to ask, because you keep whispering like that,
      and you seemed to recognize my name...is there something unusual
      about me? Or this wand? It seems quite old, but it looked like you
      picked it out specifically, and Professor McGonagall said that
      buying a wand can sometimes take a long time, which - along with
      the old saying you mentioned - implies I might have to test a few
      out, like shoes, only this one does seem to have worked quite well
      on the first try, which means you</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">expected</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">it would work for me in
      particular for some reason…" Well, look at you being all sharp on
      the uptake. You tell him, girl.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Ollivander regarded her for a moment, clearly weighing his
      words, then nodded to himself, seeming to come to a decision, and
      shrugged.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'<em class="calibre7">Unusual'? I couldn't say - we are each unique in our own
      way, are we not? But to be sure, you are meant for that
      wand...among other things. You have a</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">destiny</strong></em><em class="calibre7">, Hermione Granger. But I
      think that if you knew it in full, you might not necessarily
      fulfill it as naturally." His words dripped with meaning and
      portent, but also a sort of absent casualness. Now honestly, that's
      just over-the-top, even for-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">really</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">need to know
      what all of that means, absolute top of the list, right now. And if
      this is just some sort of terribly elaborate sales pitch, I shall
      be</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">very</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">cross and ask Professor
      McGonagall to help me buy a wand somewhere else," said the girl,
      crossing her arms and attempting to sound stern, though there was a
      note of pleading in her demand as well. Yes, what she said,
      doubled! The old wandmaker shook his head and withdrew a gnarled
      dark wand from his robes. Wait, what's he-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I have little doubt you will learn...everything in Time,
      Miss Granger. But it will not have been now, nor from me," he
      intoned. Merlin, he's going to Obliviate you! Protego, dodge,
      do</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">something</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">you little idiot! A
      bright flash issued from the tip of Ollivander's wand-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione found herself on the floor beside the chair, nearly
      hyperventilating - she'd apparently shoved herself away from the
      table to try to get away from the flash, but there was no flash, no
      Ollivander, she was just in the Library, libraries were
      <em class="calibre7">safe</em>, libraries were where things <em class="calibre7">made sense</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Were <em class="calibre7">supposed</em> to make sense, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A trio of nearby Gryffindors were staring at her, but after a
      shared shrug, went back to their own studying. Hermione stood and
      straightened her robes, calmed her breathing, then deliberately sat
      back down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What?</em> she thought, somewhat desperately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some part of her that wasn't still spinning around dizzily
      hesitantly offered the opinion that she'd just <em class="calibre7">remembered</em>
      something, and which the close of strongly implied the whole thing
      had been magically removed and replaced with something else. Which
      she <em class="calibre7">knew</em> was possible, because there was a whole
      profession in the Ministry devoted to doing it to muggles.
      <em class="calibre7">Except...that's not quite right, is it? That is, that's
      obviously not how I originally - or still, come to think of it -
      remember things, but what just happened</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">now</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">felt like...it wasn't happening
      to me, but I was watching...or watching someone</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">else</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">watching, because someone was
      thinking things about what was happening and those weren't my
      thoughts, but…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This line of "reasoning" crashed in a messy heap. For a moment,
      Hermione considered the possibility that she was, in fact, mentally
      unwell. If that was the case, she wasn't sure if there was anything
      useful she could do other than mention the possibility to someone
      qualified to diagnose such things, because if she <em class="calibre7">was</em>
      actually having delusions, how could she trust any of her own
      conclusions about them? Aside from the panic, and the admitted
      fuzziness around certain memories, she didn't <em class="calibre7">feel</em> like
      her thoughts weren't working right, but it's not as if she had
      anything else to compare them to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She decided to keep turning herself over to Nurse Wainscott in
      mind as a fallback option, but explore other explanations for at
      least a <em class="calibre7">little</em> while first. In that vein, one bit of the
      "memory" stuck out...the watcher's reaction to Hermione's wand
      producing a different effect when it was in her left
      hand...something like "that came from <em class="calibre7">me</em>, not her". Which
      seemed to imply the watcher had been not just watching, but
      <em class="calibre7">present</em>...<em class="calibre7">in Hermione</em>… She slowly turned her head
      to look at her main List, and her eyes caught on the shortest line.
      She looked back at the cryptic notes, and she finally recognized
      something she really ought to have earlier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were in her own handwriting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione went very still, and wished she was better at knowing
      what research to prioritize, though honestly she wasn't sure how
      she could've been without actually <em class="calibre7">knowing the future</em>, and
      reading between the lines of some of the extra reading she'd
      bought, Divination in Magical Britain was viewed by serious people
      only slightly more favorably than it was by muggles. But there was
      no helping that now, so what should she do? She felt an urge to
      directly quote the relevant bit from the first Dirk Gently book -
      which had partially inspired her current theory - but she didn't
      trust herself not to flub it, and this really wasn't the time
      anyway, so she paraphrased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My mind is not just a thing my brain does," she whispered. "It
      is <em class="calibre7">who I am</em>. If you've some unfinished business or
      something that sharing my body can help with, I'm not necessarily
      opposed to that - though you might've <em class="calibre7">asked</em> first. I don't
      know what you and Ollivander have going on between you - it didn't
      <em class="calibre7">seem</em> like you were cooperating, exactly, but he apparently
      didn't erase <em class="calibre7">your</em> memories, did he? But when a part of my
      mind is destroyed, a version of me is effectively killed, and all
      the thoughts that might have come from her. It's not murder, but
      it's a difference of degree, not kind. So whoever's possessing me,
      if you've any decency at all, I'll ask you kindly to <em class="calibre7">show
      yourself.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione waited uneasily. Throughout this little speech Hermione
      had done her best to hold her voice steady - but there'd
      nevertheless been a bit of quaver - she still knew almost nothing
      about how ghosts really worked, and that uncertainty terrified her.
      Which maybe whatever was possessing her knew already, if it was in
      her head, but if it didn't there was no sense in making things easy
      for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a moment, nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The nothing continued in the next moment, and the moment after
      that, until it seemed clear that the dramatic appearance of a ghost
      was not in fact in the offing. It was certainly possible she'd been
      wrong about that, though the theory did seem to fit the evidence.
      The question was, could she risk doing some quick (if belated)
      research on ghosts to bolster that theory, or was this enough
      evidence that the situation was serious and she should go to an
      adult <em class="calibre7">immediately</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer was often obvious when the question was asked the
      right way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok. I'll just have to get someone more knowledgeable about
      ghosts to help," she said, quietly. There was no particular reason
      to have said that aloud - she'd done it on impulse, as another
      experiment, but not particularly expecting any reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At which point Hermione felt an immediate, irrational dread that
      if she told anyone, it would cause horrible, awful things to
      happen. She mentally planted her feet and clamped down on the
      reaction. Hermione was no stranger to occasional anxiety - thus
      having read up on it - she often analysed things to a degree that
      made her promote objectively unlikely scenarios to conscious
      consideration. But in all of those cases, the worries were
      irrational because the <em class="calibre7">chances</em> of them happening were very
      low, <em class="calibre7">not</em> because she had <em class="calibre7">no</em> logical reason to
      worry at all. Yet this feeling had no chain of logic, no train of
      thought attached to it, it just <em class="calibre7">was</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the feeling had to come from <em class="calibre7">somewhere</em>, and given
      she was already considering the existence of a separate...call it
      "mind"...inside her, Occam's razor suggested a single explanation
      was more likely (though a part of her felt dirty about invoking
      Occam's razor to argue that "a ghost did it").</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that you?" she whispered. "If it is, and you <em class="calibre7">can't</em>
      show yourself...do something else. Have a happy feeling instead of
      being afraid, maybe?" She waited, but nothing happened. Maybe
      ghosts, being dead, just couldn't <em class="calibre7">be</em> properly happy?
      Though the ones she'd seen so far seemed relatively genial, at
      least. "I'm sorry, but if you can't give me <em class="calibre7">actual
      reasons</em>, I really <em class="calibre7">have</em> to tell someone about this."
      Hermione stood up and began to gather up all her notes from the
      table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dread intensified, and it might have been her imagination,
      but perhaps mixed with a bit of frustration, now? Despite
      Hermione's determination to do the sensible thing, and increasing
      conviction that these feelings were not her own, her hands were
      shaking quite badly by the time she'd stowed everything away in her
      bag. Her rationalizing faculties instinctively began to look for
      ways to stop the unpleasant sensations, and unbidden, seductive and
      unverifiable scenarios started playing in her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suppose the strange non-memory she'd experienced had really
      happened, and Ollivander had been <em class="calibre7">protecting</em> her, because
      there really <em class="calibre7">was</em> such a thing as "Destiny", and...there
      were people or creatures who could <em class="calibre7">read minds</em>, and if they
      knew, she would be in danger. Or maybe she'd somehow unknowingly
      blundered into a Dark Curse when she'd been looking at books in
      Diagon Alley, and this feeling was her sole warning, and if she
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> tell someone <em class="calibre7">they</em> would be hurt, and it would
      all be Hermione's fault for <em class="calibre7">not reading enough first</em>?
      Or…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even while her mind filled with one increasingly implausible
      justification for delay after another, she slowly, stubbornly,
      continued to make her way through the stacks toward the Library's
      exit. That's what being responsible <em class="calibre7">meant</em>, you did what
      was right even if it was hard, or uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt a surge of frustration and grew dizzy, pausing to
      steady herself against a bookshelf. Her vision swam, and for a
      moment she was-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hermione pulled up the covers of her new bed at the top of
      Ravenclaw Tower and started the relaxing routine that was the only
      thing that kept otherwise chronic insomnia at bay. Every night, as
      soon as her head hit the pillow, sleep always seemed to be the
      furthest thing from her mind, in favor of going over everything
      she'd learned and read that day. But she'd practiced structured
      relaxation as diligently as she approached anything else until it
      was second nature, and soon her eyelids were drooping…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked. Another memory...but there wasn't anything
      different about that one, it was just as it had been the first
      night after arriving at Hogwarts, what did-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The letters of the CRT monitor grew blurry, and Hermione
      rubbed at her eyes automatically. She'd been taking notes from her
      Hogwarts books on the Amiga for ease of searching in the short
      term, though she knew already that she couldn't take it with her,
      more's the pity - she'd have to print everything out before she
      left. But at night she always stopped using the computer and went
      to bed at the very first sign of eye strain - she took her vision
      very seriously, because stressing her eyes to the point where she'd
      need glasses and make it harder to read for the rest of her life
      wasn't a good deal on balance no matter how tempting it was to read
      "just one more page"…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't just dizziness now, her whole body felt heavy and weak
      and only a firm grip on the bookshelf kept her from dropping to the
      floor. "If you're trying to communicate, I don't understand," she
      murmured, surprised at how slurred her words sounded-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">She was so hot, she wasn't under the covers, and her
      nightgown was soaked with sweat. But more than that, she was
      afraid, because she'd</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">read</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">about
      fevers and if they were high enough they could</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">cook your brain</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">and you might not
      think right afterward, and also you might die, but the first thing
      scared her more because if she couldn't think right, she just
      wouldn't be</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">her</strong></em><em class="calibre7">, it'd be like
      someone else pretending, in her body, and mummy and dad would</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">think</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">it was her but be sad because
      she wasn't smart anymore...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I know it's awful, sweetie, just try to close your eyes?"
      She felt a blissful coolness for a moment as mummy put a fresh wet
      washcloth over her forehead. "You just need to rest, sleep will
      help you get better." Mummy knew what to do, because even though
      she only fixed teeth and not whole people, she'd still gone to
      school for ages and knew practically everything, so Hermione closed
      her eyes and let mummy's soft words fill the rest of her head with
      a different kind of coolness, but just as nice as the
      washcloth…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a dull sense of alarm - the dullness of which was itself
      alarming - Hermione realized this wasn't an attempt at
      communication. It was the middle of the day and it was <em class="calibre7">putting
      her to sleep</em>. But she found she'd already sat down against the
      bookshelf and couldn't summon the strength to rise. She reached
      into her bag for her wand, but she knew you couldn't use an
      awakening spell on yourself...maybe she could make a loud noise and
      attract someone's attention. She tried to remember the wand
      gestures that accompanied <em class="calibre7">Sonorus</em>, and closed her eyes for
      <em class="calibre7">just a moment</em> to picture the illustrations in the book -
      and discovered, too late, that she'd just forfeited.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
