<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 11 - Perspective, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Perspective</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 11 - Perspective</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, as she slowly walked to the Great Hall for breakfast
      Thursday morning, tried to determine what, if anything, she'd
      learned. She paid a bare minimum of attention to navigating - it
      had only been three days, but even first-years of other Houses had
      learned the onus of avoiding collisions with students in
      blue-trimmed robes and an absent expression was on
      <em class="calibre7">them</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she had woken up in the hospital wing, she'd been somewhat
      surprised to discover that she had no trouble remembering
      everything from yesterday, the strange notes, the "memory" of
      Ollivander's, the disturbing glimpses "of the future". Or at least,
      she <em class="calibre7">thought</em> she had no trouble - she'd need to
      double-check her hurried notes to be sure. She'd tossed them out of
      the window in the hopes that her "uninvited guest" wouldn't be able
      to get to them under the watchful eye of Madam Wainscott. But the
      fact that she even remembered the notes existed in the first place
      suggested she hadn't been Obliviated. The potion, however, seemed
      to have been effective, as she remembered no dreams or additional
      "glimpses" (she refused to call them "visions", even to
      herself).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as she'd dressed - her clothes and robes had been
      laundered and neatly folded, she'd discovered - she'd immediately
      gone out onto the grounds to check outside the window, but that
      part of her plan had worked as well - the notes were gone. Before
      tossing them out the window, aside from the Imperviuses in case of
      rain, she'd added a Reminder Charm in the hopes that the voice
      would attract the attention of someone outside, so if she
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> been Obliviated, there'd at least be someone who
      <em class="calibre7">might</em> be able to do something - the short personal note
      she'd added at the top had urged whoever found them to be cautious,
      to make a copy and give it to <em class="calibre7">someone else</em> before even
      attempting to talk to Hermione about it, and when they did to be
      subtle - if she seemed not to remember at all, they were to take
      her notes immediately to a Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, if that did happen, they might just discount it
      because of the hex misinformation, but she'd drawn specific
      attention in the notes to the Ollivander incident, which was
      <em class="calibre7">past</em>, rather than future, and wasn't as well-explained by
      some Cassandra-esque Confunding. They were, in any case, the best
      precautions she'd been able to come up with in the time she'd had.
      No one had attempted to contact her yet, even subtly, but that was
      equally plausible if whoever had found the notes <em class="calibre7">was</em> being
      cautious, or if they'd simply ignored or discarded them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All this implied her guest had been either unable or unwilling
      to Obliviate her while she slept. Perhaps the potion had prevented
      her body from being borrowed, or Nurse Wainscott was too vigilant
      to risk it, or Hermione's precaution with the notes made
      Obliviating her too likely to be discovered, or it simply did not
      suit their plans, whatever they were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed, from a collection of things, that her guest had
      <em class="calibre7">some</em> concern for Hermione's welfare. Thinking back over
      the cryptic notes in her handwriting in that light, Hermione began
      to see a theory that might fit, though it was not one she enjoyed
      at all. Divination was one thing, but <em class="calibre7">this</em>…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tenuous chain of reasoning started with a line that had gone
      something like, "I can feel myself slipping. It's hard to think
      clearly, even when she's asleep, without risking pushing Y.H. out
      completely." From the Library incident (and the existence of the
      notes in the first place), it appeared that Hermione's guest had
      more agency when Hermione was sleeping...which made a kind of
      sense, she supposed, if they were somehow sharing the same brain.
      Ignoring for the moment how impossible <em class="calibre7">that</em> was. But that
      made it likely the "she" in that line was Hermione herself. And
      though the notion gave her a shiver of dread to contemplate, the
      balance could be inferred that Y.H. was <em class="calibre7">also</em> her, and
      there wasn't enough <em class="calibre7">room</em> in her brain for both of
      them...and there was an ongoing risk that one or the other would be
      "pushed out".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the context <em class="calibre7">also</em> implied that her guest <em class="calibre7">didn't
      want that</em>. That, along with other bits of the notes -
      expressing regret about Madam Pomfrey, talking about "saving
      people" - suggested rather strongly that her guest had morals at
      least similar to Hermione's, even if they weren't being terribly
      <em class="calibre7">nice</em> about trying to follow them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next there was the "commentary" on Hermione's "memory" of
      Ollivander's. It was a lot harder to remember the exact wording, as
      it hadn't been visual or even verbal, more like a memory of
      <em class="calibre7">thinking</em>. But it, too, implied that her guest had some
      concern for Hermione's welfare, hadn't <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> her to be
      Obliviated. And also that her guest, even then, was thinking in
      terms of <em class="calibre7">changes</em> and <em class="calibre7">remembering</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then there were the "glimpses", of apparent futures, the only
      common elements being something extremely unpleasant, and that they
      all featured an older version of herself. But if they
      <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> come from some weird Confundus, where else could
      they have, other than her guest? Again, if they were sharing the
      same brain, even if direct communication might not be possible, it
      didn't seem implausible that there might be some "leakage" in
      either direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All of which added up to a conclusion that, even tenuous as it
      was, Hermione would've called <em class="calibre7">obvious</em>, if it hadn't been
      so blatantly impossible. There had been nothing in her reading that
      suggested such a thing was magically plausible. But, aside from
      insanity, it was the only solution that seemed to fit. Even Madam
      Wainscott's attempts to detect Hermione's guest fit - she'd said,
      "there's nothing in your head that didn't originate from <em class="calibre7">your
      own mind</em>", and Hermione stressed the last bit in her head as
      she recalled it. If she wasn't Confunded, how could her mind be her
      own, and yet not, at the same time?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her guest was <em class="calibre7">herself</em>. But a <em class="calibre7">later</em> version,
      "Older Hermione". And from her perspective, Hermione would of
      course be "Younger Hermione"...Y.H.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which, if she accepted the impossible theory as true for the
      moment, meant Hermione had to reconsider all of her decisions in
      light of the fact that an older, more experienced version of
      <em class="calibre7">herself</em> thought it was for the best that Hermione didn't
      tell <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> about any of this, even very experienced,
      responsible Professors. And then Hermione had <em class="calibre7">written
      everything down</em> and tossed it <em class="calibre7">out a window</em> in the
      <em class="calibre7">specific hope</em> that a <em class="calibre7">random person</em> would pick it
      up and read it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The term "embarrassment" didn't really cover it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only things keeping her from falling into an oscillating
      spiral of self-beratement and gibbering panic were that she wasn't
      <em class="calibre7">sure</em> she was right about this, and even if she was, her
      guest didn't seem to <em class="calibre7">know</em> what was going to happen, she
      just <em class="calibre7">expected</em> it to be dangerous, bad, or both. But even
      the latter was in the context that O.H. seemed surprised about what
      <em class="calibre7">specifically</em> had happened, but <em class="calibre7">not</em> about the fact
      that it involved some form of <em class="calibre7">time travel</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was broken from her introspection not by the sound of
      breakfast in the Great Hall, which she'd anticipated, but by the
      <em class="calibre7">change</em> in the sound as she entered, not dropping in volume
      exactly, but lowering in tone. She looked up, and saw that at least
      a third of the students were <em class="calibre7">looking at her</em>, not just a
      casual glance at someone entering, but <em class="calibre7">watching</em>, while
      they talked to adjacent students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even while her heart fluttered from the unwanted attention and
      whatever it implied, Hermione steadfastly ignored it and walked
      directly to an open seat at the Ravenclaw table. She could just
      immediately ask what all this was about, but this <em class="calibre7">was</em> the
      <em class="calibre7">Ravenclaw</em> table, which meant all she had to do was count
      to-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what was the-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who actually-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you remember-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione couldn't properly make out all the words as several of
      her housemates began asking different questions simultaneously,
      before her mental count had even reached "one". She held up one
      hand peremptorily and used the other to select a croissant and a
      couple other bland items she thought her churning stomach could
      tolerate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One at a time, please," she said. "Mandy?" she prompted,
      nodding at one of her interrogators.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any idea who hexed you?" the girl asked, a little
      breathlessly. Hermione considered her answer, but decided to leave
      things as they were for the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I don't even remember it happening." It was technically
      true, anyway. Hermione picked up an unused glass and gestured it
      towards Anthony to go next, then began to pour herself some water.
      He paused for a moment, probably mentally adjusting to the new
      information that Hermione didn't remember it happening, which
      rather limited the scope of useful questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Nurse let you go, so you must be okay now, but you were in
      the <em class="calibre7">hospital wing</em>, so it had to be <em class="calibre7">bad</em>...what
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> it exactly?" Hermione, again, wasn't sure how to
      answer that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you tell me everything you - and everyone, apparently
      - <em class="calibre7">does</em> know about this, and also how you know it, and then
      I'll be better able to fill in the blanks?" '<em class="calibre7">Able to'
      doesn't</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">technically</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">mean
      'willing',</em> she thought, and suddenly recalled Tonks' grinning
      face on the Hogwarts Express. But before she could smile, the
      memory was just as quickly replaced by an image of the Hufflepuff's
      body, ashen and still, and Hermione's mouth twisted instead, in
      synchrony with her stomach. Anthony hesitated, perhaps taken aback
      by her expression, but Marietta, a few places further down, stepped
      in efficiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore made an announcement at dinner last night.
      He said that a first-year had apparently been the victim of a
      <em class="calibre7">very powerful</em> hex, and that while the hex was not,
      strictly speaking, <em class="calibre7">Dark</em>, ah, 'such an egregious and
      inappropriate misuse of magic will not be tolerated' - he can look
      quite stern if he wants to, you know. Then he said the Professors
      would be making <em class="calibre7">pointed</em> inquiries, but if the 'offending
      party' chose to come forward privately, before they were
      identified, it would weigh in their favor..." Hermione was
      gratified to learn that the staff would take <em class="calibre7">some</em>
      infractions seriously, though she felt bad about Professors
      possibly wasting their time searching for a culprit that did not
      exist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was about it," Marietta continued. "He didn't say
      <em class="calibre7">who</em> had been hexed, but there were only a few people
      missing from dinner, and the only one who didn't turn up after was
      <em class="calibre7">you</em>, so Q.E.D."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," objected Penelope Clearwater faintly, from three
      times further down the table. "There's nothing that says even a
      powerful hex <em class="calibre7">had</em> to cause an overnight stay in the
      hospital wing - the victim might've already recovered and actually
      <em class="calibre7">been</em> at dinner." That end of the table devolved into a
      heated debate on induction vs. deduction, quickly moving rather
      beyond the immediate matter at hand. All the first-years still
      waited expectantly for Hermione to elaborate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She chewed slowly to give herself more time while she thought.
      Hermione didn't <em class="calibre7">want</em> to lie, or even withhold information,
      particularly after (mostly) resolving the whole Transfiguration
      secret-keeping drama. And if it had been someone at the Ravenclaw
      table who'd found her notes, they'd <em class="calibre7">know</em> she wasn't being
      honest. But if her guest's apparent concerns were <em class="calibre7">valid</em>,
      she might not be doing anyone who heard any favours, depending of
      course on what exactly the problems with time travel
      <em class="calibre7">were</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was in the Library, and I felt strangely tired, and the next
      time I was awake I was in the hospital wing. I don't remember
      anyone hexing me, but Nurse Wainscott believes a hex made me
      confused, and also see things that weren't true. But before you
      ask, no, I'm not going to say what I saw, because if they're not
      true they don't matter, and she <em class="calibre7">specifically</em> said I
      shouldn't even <em class="calibre7">think</em> about them." All true, and yet so
      misleading and incomplete that Hermione felt dirty, like she'd
      <em class="calibre7">cheated on an exam</em>, or something equally unthinkable.
      Still, even if it likely hadn't really satisfied anyone's
      curiosity, it seemed to have forestalled further questions on the
      topic - everyone went back to eating and random conversation. With
      one exception.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All this is impressively distracting, but don't think we won't
      remember tae ask Professor McGonagall in class this afternoon about
      what ye <em class="calibre7">claimed</em>," said Morag, quietly. For what seemed
      like the dozenth time, Hermione wondered why the other girl seemed
      so eager to challenge her at every opportunity. She considered just
      <em class="calibre7">asking</em>, but decided to wait - it didn't seem likely to
      help the situation while Morag still thought she had a valid
      grievance, and the next Transfiguration class <em class="calibre7">would</em>
      finally clear that up at least. In the end, she just sighed, and
      nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Morag nodded as well, with a grimly satisfied smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the first-years had a free period Thursday after breakfast,
      and Ravenclaws the period before lunch as well. Most wandered away
      from the Great Hall towards their respective common rooms, or just
      off to explore the castle a bit more. A few headed towards the
      Library to actually study, or finish up any coursework - most
      students and even Professors still called it 'homework' at
      Hogwarts, even though no one went <em class="calibre7">home</em> to do it, excepting
      holidays.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was left trying to figure out a good way of
      communicating with her guest. Obviously she was able to write - and
      even speak, based on what Nurse Wainscott had said - while Hermione
      was asleep. So simple parchment, or alternating Reminder Charms if
      they wanted to be careful and avoid leaving evidence, would seem to
      suit. But her older self had to know that too, and she
      <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> communicated, or at least not deliberately. Maybe
      now that Hermione had learned so much anyway, things would be
      different? But even if it were, it would be like having a pen-pal,
      only exchanging one "letter" each night, which wasn't very
      efficient, and her guest's notes had implied their time 'together'
      might be short, one way or another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She knew from very recent personal experience that magical sleep
      was possible in at least two different forms - if she could find
      one that was reliably of <em class="calibre7">short</em> duration, they might be
      able to have a reasonably efficient conversation. Assuming, again,
      that her guest was <em class="calibre7">willing</em> now, when she hadn't been
      before…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione made her way back to the hospital wing. When she
      arrived, she found the nurse dictating inventory, to a quill that
      was apparently both Self-Inking <em class="calibre7">and</em> Self-Writing, as it
      was dancing across a nearby scroll in response to her words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Wainscott?" Hermione asked hesitantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger, I didn't expect you back so soon, are you- no,
      cancel, cancel!" Her concerned greeting to Hermione was cut off as
      she realized her quill was continuing to transcribe, and turned to
      address it instead, until it stopped. "Sorry, these things are
      never as smart as you'd like them to be, are they? Are you feeling
      any additional ill effects, I was going to ask?" Hermione shook her
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, my stomach was a bit upset at breakfast, but I think that's
      to be expected with all that's been going on. And I should thank
      you again for the potion, I think that's the best night's sleep
      I've had since school started. In fact, that is actually why I
      came." The Matron (or perhaps <em class="calibre7">Acting</em> Matron? The
      Headmaster had said she was taking over Madam Pomfrey's
      <em class="calibre7">duties</em>, but not specifically her title...) gave a little
      frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, but the potion I administered yesterday is to be
      used sparingly, for emergencies only. It isn't safe for repeated
      use." Hermione's eyebrows rose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh? I still haven't had Potions yet, but I hadn't read anything
      about cumulative toxicity…" The nurse blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not that...it's that, well, whether you remember them upon
      waking or not, dreams are <em class="calibre7">necessary</em> for healthy sleep. A
      sustained lack of dreams can cause poor health, or even forms of
      madness, eventually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right, I actually knew that, it just hadn't occurred to
      me." Now it was Madam Wainscott's turn to raise her eyebrows. "I
      read it in a muggle book - they actually know a fair bit about
      biology and medicine...they rather <em class="calibre7">have to</em>, since they
      don't have magic," Hermione explained, somewhat pointedly. The
      comment didn't seem to make the woman less skeptical. "But
      <em class="calibre7">anyway</em>, so it's not magical sleep itself that's dangerous,
      it's just <em class="calibre7">dreamless</em> sleep? Are there other convenient ways
      of promoting normal sleep, or even causing a quick nap? I
      <em class="calibre7">do</em> have diagnosed insomnia, I could try to get my parents
      to owl back a note from my doctor, I suppose, if you need some sort
      of verification…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you poor child, on top of everything? Well, there are
      lesser sleeping draughts, and a variety of Charms, of course,
      though those are probably a bit beyond what a first year can
      manage. I suppose I could brew up a small supply of Liquid Sheep
      for you, though you'd need to follow my dosing instructions
      <em class="calibre7">precisely</em> - it wouldn't do to have you waking up in the
      middle of the night, <em class="calibre7">or</em> sleeping straight through to
      Christmas. Come back either right after dinner, or after
      tonight's...gathering. I'll have some ready for you by then."
      Hermione felt a bit awful about the nurse's obvious compassion,
      given that she was misrepresenting herself. And also that the woman
      was expected to just carry on with her work, even with Madam
      Pomfrey's memorial tonight - Hermione assumed they'd been
      reasonably close, working together and all. But as far as sleep
      aids went, she <em class="calibre7">did</em> have diagnosed insomnia, so it wasn't
      <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> a lie, she just wasn't <em class="calibre7">mentioning</em> that
      she explicitly planned on subverting the dosing instructions for
      her own purposes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," she said, sincerely, but not nodding, since that
      <em class="calibre7">technically</em> might've counted as promising to follow the
      dosing properly. <em class="calibre7">"...any means to achieve their ends…"</em>
      came, unbidden, an echo of the Sorting Hat's song through her head.
      <em class="calibre7">Shut up. That whole 'technically' thing came from a</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">Hufflepuff</strong></em><em class="calibre7">, you know, so you can take
      your weird anti-Slytherin propaganda and foist it on someone else.
      And besides, this is extremely important.</em> Hermione didn't
      actually think she was having a conversation with the Sorting Hat,
      though for a disturbing moment, it occurred to Hermione to wonder
      if the demonstrably telepathic artifact actually <em class="calibre7">could</em> use
      that ability at a distance? But after a tense moment of hesitation,
      no further mental intrusions presented themselves, exogenous or
      otherwise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll see you tonight, then," Hermione said quickly, after
      realizing she'd just been standing there and Madam Wainscott was
      starting to look at her oddly. She hurried off towards the
      Library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several hours later, Hermione's stomach felt no better than it
      had at breakfast as she quickly made her way to the Defence
      classroom. She'd had to add Time Travel (and Prophecy, just in
      case) and Sleep Charms, and Possession to the top of her List, and
      some of what she'd managed to learn had been <em class="calibre7">exceedingly</em>
      disquieting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Prophecy, it seemed, was almost exclusively the province of
      Seers, who were apparently <em class="calibre7">naturally</em> gifted with their
      abilities (rather than as the result of any kind of dedicated
      study, which vaguely offended Hermione) via no obvious cause,
      though heredity was believed partially responsible. But it also
      seemed clear that a Seer never seemed to remember their own
      Prophecies, at least not true ones - they were more of a
      <em class="calibre7">channel</em> for information than a repository, as it were.
      Though there wasn't any useful information about the <em class="calibre7">other</em>
      end of that channel - most writers seemed to simply take it for
      granted that the Seer was drawing information through themselves
      rather than receiving something <em class="calibre7">sent</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time, Hermione had been surprised to discover, <em class="calibre7">was</em>
      mentioned, though never in a practical sense. It tended to come up
      in discussions of extreme magical mishaps - apparently people had
      been <em class="calibre7">erased</em> from Time (and yet somehow in a way that it
      was apparent it had happened). But the details were never discussed
      in depth because it was - and this was invariably mentioned
      alongside such references - due to various overlapping laws,
      <em class="calibre7">more</em> than 100% illegal to research Time magic, at least
      outside the Department of Mysteries. Aptly, what went on in
      <em class="calibre7">there</em> was left entirely mysterious - the people who worked
      there were literally called <em class="calibre7">Unspeakables</em>, Hermione had
      learned, with some unease.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this directly implied that Time Travel <em class="calibre7">was</em>
      possible, or they wouldn't have made it illegal. And obviously
      dangerous, by the same reasoning. And yet before even coming to
      Hogwarts, Hermione had purchased and memorized the most current
      edition of the <em class="calibre7">Legislative Guide to the Proper Use of
      Magic</em>, and she <em class="calibre7">certainly</em> would've taken note of the
      possibility of Time Travel (as she had of the possibility of
      developing the ability to turn into a particular animal at will,
      which sounded delightful, but also difficult and dangerous beyond
      the practical benefits). But Hermione, despite her general
      confidence about things she'd read, always left room for
      fallibility on her part, so she'd dutifully pulled out her copy of
      the Guide, and double-checked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure enough, there <em class="calibre7">were</em> a great many relevant statutes,
      nearly all of which carried mandatory terms in Azkaban, and
      Hermione had no idea how she'd missed that on her multiple
      readings. At least until she read a footnote noting that all
      published references to Time magic (including the entire relevant
      section of laws) were "Conditionally Obscured", such that to anyone
      who was not <em class="calibre7">already aware</em> of the existence of Time magic,
      the words appeared to be innocuous and redundant references to
      other material. The very concept of a spell which prohibited you
      from <em class="calibre7">learning</em> something unless you'd <em class="calibre7">already learned
      it</em> was just...just...it was similar to her feelings about
      Obliviation, honestly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even telling someone about the existence of Time magic without
      explicit written authorization from the Ministry was <em class="calibre7">also</em>
      illegal. Which had struck Hermione as being an <em class="calibre7">extreme</em>
      level of caution, to the point of possibly being self-defeating -
      what if someone independently discovered Time magic and then
      innocently (because they'd had no way to know they oughtn't to)
      went about developing it? But no, there were in fact regulations
      for spell researchers to explicitly, physically consult a current
      copy of the Guide before starting major projects and after
      <em class="calibre7">any</em> novel discovery. On top of all of that, all the
      relevant laws and regulations, like the Secrecy ones, were
      International Statutes, shared world-wide through a binding treaty
      of the International Confederation of Wizards. All in all, magical
      society had been terribly thorough and gone to tremendous effort,
      and it was certainly a strong implication about the dangers
      involved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There had even been - but only in the laws restricting their use
      - mention of "approved" forms of Time magic. There were only two of
      them - which were really only one...apparently there was something
      called an Hour-Reversal Charm, which allowed a witch to travel
      <em class="calibre7">physically back in Time</em> one hour. But enchanted devices
      for producing the same effect were considered much safer, since the
      Charm was fiendishly difficult and unstable when cast manually.
      Even so, it was illegal to use the Charm or the devices, <em class="calibre7">even
      in emergencies</em>, for any purpose <em class="calibre7">other</em> than ones
      explicitly and individually authorized in writing by the Ministry
      on a case-by-case basis. It was illegal to attempt, by any
      combination of Reversals, to produce written works <em class="calibre7">ex
      nihilo</em>, to act upon any information gained therein prior to a
      point at which it could not have demonstrably been obtained
      otherwise <em class="calibre7">without</em> a Reversal, to attempt to cause any
      event or series of events to unfold in a manner other than what was
      previously observed to have happened, or to attempt to extend,
      suborn or otherwise bypass the Charm's inherent maximum scope of
      five hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, Hermione was almost reconsidering her extremely
      poor opinions of Obliviation, as a practice. Technically, at this
      very moment, Hermione was <em class="calibre7">breaking at least one law</em>,
      simply because she had <em class="calibre7">learned</em> about Time magic through an
      unofficial channel, and wasn't immediately contacting "an
      authorized official of the Department of Mysteries". Plus there was
      the whole matter of her notes, which didn't explicitly mention Time
      Travel, but from the information in which <em class="calibre7">she</em> had
      eventually deduced it, so someone else might too, and she wasn't
      sure if that would count as her having told someone else. She tried
      to act as responsibly as she could on a daily basis, but she
      <em class="calibre7">wasn't even twelve yet</em>, these were unreasonably serious
      things for her to have to be involved in, and she considered it a
      matter of character to be very careful to obey all <em class="calibre7">rules</em>,
      let alone <em class="calibre7">laws.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And though it was sort of overshadowed by the whole breaking
      international law matter, and possibly <em class="calibre7">erasing people from
      existence</em>, there was also what the Headmaster had apparently
      said, about the staff investigating her 'hexing'. It was probably a
      waste of their valuable time, or worse, if they mistakenly
      identified someone, and that person was punished, it'd be grossly
      unfair, which meant it wasn't just legally wrong for Hermione to
      remain silent, but to some degree <em class="calibre7">morally</em> wrong in an
      absolute sense. Though perhaps not ethically, if she ended up
      causing more harm by coming forward than she prevented by doing
      otherwise…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hermione arrived in the Defence classroom and took a seat
      mere seconds before third period began, to say she was agitated
      would be a considerable understatement. A number of students were
      looking at her oddly, and Padma actually leaned close.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you entirely well? You look like you're going to sick up,"
      she whispered. Hermione hadn't realized her inner turmoil was so
      outwardly visible, and made an effort to calm herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fine, thank you," Hermione whispered back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure? If you need to go back to the hospital wing, I
      can share my Defence notes with you later…" Which was probably the
      nicest offer a fellow student had ever made to her in her life. In
      her current state, an impulse of nearly desperate gratitude almost
      made Hermione want to take her up on it, but the Nurse wouldn't be
      able to help her with the <em class="calibre7">actual</em> problem until much later
      anyway, and stewing in the hospital wing might not be as helpful as
      distracting herself by actually learning things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I'm sure, but <em class="calibre7">thank you</em>, truly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Students!" came a surprisingly loud call from the front of the
      room. Many of the students who hadn't been paying attention,
      Hermione and Padma included, startled visibly. Professor Quirrell,
      as if taken aback by the reaction, lowered his voice excessively,
      to the point where it was necessary to strain to hear him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It..I have...that is, it has...been brought to my attention,
      that some s-s-students may be casting genuinely harmful magics on
      each other, for..ah...for s-sport? I have...some have said...I have
      <em class="calibre7">heard</em> that some say my c-classes have not included enough
      <em class="calibre7">practical</em> Defence, which isn't very fair since I'd only
      h-h-<em class="calibre7">held</em> two or three classes for any given s-s-student,
      and…" He continued speaking in a mutter too low to be made out,
      until one of the students near the front coughed loudly, causing
      the Professor to startle, once again as if surprised to discover he
      was in class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Accordingly</em>," he said, and winced as he'd been much
      too loud again. He settled into a more reasonable speaking volume.
      "Accordingly, I will b-be adding additional instruction to the
      s-standard M-m-ministry curriculum. Unfortunately, there isn't
      m-much that first years <em class="calibre7">can</em> be taught without a solid
      f-f-foundation in Charms, but I shall d-do my best, starting with
      two spells that are the simplest c-c-counter-curses for a w-wide
      variety of lesser c-curses and j-j-jinxes - the Unlocking Spell,
      and the General C-c-counter-Curse. These spells are n-not normally
      taught until your s-s-second year, and you w-will not be required
      to c-c-cast them for your f-final exams...but I w-will mark you on
      effort during class." There was a general sigh of relief from
      nearly everyone but Hermione, who had already successfully cast
      both from her Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2 - <em class="calibre7">Finite</em> in
      particular had seemed like an important thing to know straight off
      if one was determined to practice magic frequently without a
      Professor present...she'd seen Fantasia, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor demonstrated The General Counter-Curse (which
      Hermione thought somewhat poorly named, as the spell could actually
      cancel a broad class of magics, whether or not they were
      unpleasant) several times while the class followed along. After, he
      had everyone divide into pairs, with one student either lighting
      their wand - if they could manage it, otherwise the Professor
      provided something similar that made the whole student glow softly
      - and the other trying to snuff it with <em class="calibre7">Finite
      Incantatem</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell had, for reasons he had not explained,
      segregated the pairings by gender, but mixed them by house, so
      Hermione found herself facing Tracey Davis of Slytherin. Hermione
      frowned, and wondered if he somehow thought girls were somehow not
      matched with boys, though she hadn't encountered any overt signs of
      a lack of gender equality in magical society. Though for all she
      knew it was because he was acting on boys' obvious propensity
      towards distraction. Or perhaps it was a policy he'd decided for
      older students, and was just staying consistent?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, how do you want to proceed?" Hermione asked absently, her
      expression still somewhat dark. The girl got a very queer look on
      her face for a moment, almost afraid, but when Hermione's features
      began to show confusion, her own expression suddenly cleared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right, um...I'll do the light first," she said, sounding
      oddly relieved. She couldn't think of a good reason the girl
      would've thought Hermione was angry with her, but she didn't know
      much about her in general, aside from the fact that she found
      disfiguring Transfiguration effects and baby-eating monsters
      <em class="calibre7">interesting</em>. Perhaps she'd simply assumed that
      <em class="calibre7">Hermione</em> would assume that whoever had hexed her was a
      Slytherin, and that Hermione would be indiscriminate in her
      reaction? Which seemed ludicrous - it's not as if she were a
      Gryffindor - but then not everyone thought these things through.
      Tracey managed to get her wand lit on the third try.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took a moment to review the spell mentally, checking
      her previous memory against what the Professor had just
      demonstrated. Hannah's insight that their books might not be
      entirely up-to-date seemed particularly apt here, since she was not
      actually <em class="calibre7">in</em> second-year Charms, and thus Professor
      Flitwick would have had no reason to give her any errata for the
      S.B.S. Grade 2. But they seemed identical. In fact, it occurred to
      her that the Professor's stutter and physical ticks seemed to
      vanish entirely when he'd been demonstrating actual spellwork,
      which was curious. Though she supposed if that <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> been
      the case, they couldn't have really taken him on as a Professor,
      could they? She supposed public speaking and magical skill might
      just draw upon entirely different mindsets. Hermione focused back
      on the task and gave her wand the proper thrusting jab, with a
      smooth back-and-forth half-twist throughout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem!</em>" Tracey's wand obediently went
      dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent, Miss G-granger, two p-points to Ravenclaw for being
      f-f-first out of the gate," called the Professor haltingly, from
      across the classroom. Many of the Slytherins (and Morag) gave her
      dark looks, and Hermione considered the possibility that they might
      have a point...it's not as if anyone else had even <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      had the opportunity to practice the spell at all, though they
      <em class="calibre7">could</em> have bought the Grade 2 book as well, as she had.
      But she wasn't sure asking the Professor to revoke the points, and
      her accompanying explanation, would actually make anyone feel much
      better about it. Tracey, for her part, just looked impressed, and
      maybe a little scared again. Hermione tried not to frown, and
      instead just lit her own wand and nodded for the Slytherin to take
      her turn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem!</em>" Nothing happened. Hermione
      squinted at the other girl's hand position and motioned for Tracey
      to try again. "<em class="calibre7">Finite Inc-</em>"she started again, cutting off
      when Hermione held up a hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're only doing a half-twist, not a back-and-forth
      half-twist...you've still got to end up wrist-down at the end, you
      see?" Hermione demonstrated, and again Tracey gave her a peculiar
      look, but she nodded and tried again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem!</em>" Hermione nodded encouragingly,
      though her wand remained brightly lit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Almost, the motions were fine, but more accent on the
      '<em class="calibre7">ta'</em>, this time?" Tracey reset herself, and tried once
      more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem!</em>" This time Hermione's wand
      flickered, then went out, and Tracey beamed. Her smile grew even
      wider when the Professor awarded a point to Slytherin for Tracey
      being the <em class="calibre7">second</em> to successfully cast the spell, though it
      quickly wilted as she looked around. Hermione wasn't sure why -
      though their expressions were curiously muted, at least the other
      Slytherins weren't glaring at her as they had at Hermione, and the
      Ravenclaws only looked determined rather than angry. She thought
      there might be a glitter in Pansy Parkinson's eyes, though - maybe
      there was some Slytherin social convention she wasn't aware of?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Tracey relit her wand - on the first try this time - and they
      began to trade spells back and forth, Hermione decided to distract
      herself from one world-shaking problem by exploring what might be
      another, if subtler one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I have a question," she began, cautiously. Tracey seemed to
      react entirely out of proportion, her whole body visibly tensing
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go ahead," she said, in a tone Hermione imagined was normally
      reserved for speaking to one's own headsman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's nothing <em class="calibre7">bad</em>, or at least, nothing that's
      <em class="calibre7">your</em> fault," Hermione reassured her. Again that queer
      look. "I just, I've been thinking about Hogwarts and the Sorting,
      and I just wondered...what is it like, being in Slytherin?" Once
      again, the girl seemed to let out a breath she hadn't realized
      she'd been holding. But her eyes narrowed suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Hermione was <em class="calibre7">very</em> curious about Tracey's
      attitude, but didn't want to upset her further, so rather than
      addressing it, she considered carefully how to word her
      response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It had occurred to me that Sorting is a <em class="calibre7">hard problem</em>,
      and I wondered if the Hat ever makes mistakes. But it's also
      possible that there really isn't all <em class="calibre7">that</em> much difference
      between the Houses, in which case it wouldn't be such a big deal.
      But I only know a bit about what goes on in Hufflepuff and
      Gryffindor, and none at all about Slytherin." While Tracey
      considered this, Hermione efficiently <em class="calibre7">Finite</em>'d the girl's
      light, then lit her own wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's...sort of like all of Hogwarts, with House points? Except
      every person has their <em class="calibre7">own</em> points, and you can't just look
      at the hourglasses to see how many there are, you have to
      <em class="calibre7">guess</em> based on how everyone else treats you. And people
      with <em class="calibre7">more</em> points than you can add points, and nearly
      <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> can take away points as long as someone else
      agrees with them - unless your parents are important and then maybe
      not - and it's not just schoolwork, it's <em class="calibre7">every single
      thing</em> you do or say or don't do or don't say." She'd lowered
      her voice conspiratorially - with a furtive glance towards Draco
      Malfoy when she'd mentioned 'parents' - and was somewhat out of
      breath at the finish, the words having poured out of her in a
      rush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's mouth opened in horror, and then a little less horror
      as she realized this was actually an apt description of her own
      school experience prior to Hogwarts - if perhaps with a bit of
      additional classist prejudice added in - and then <em class="calibre7">more</em>
      horror again as she imagined what it would have been like to not be
      able to retreat to her own home, her own room, but instead to
      <em class="calibre7">live</em> like that, <em class="calibre7">all the time</em>. What would someone
      have to be like to come out of seven years of that <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      mad? And again, while according to popular reference more didn't
      than all the other Houses combined, the vast majority of them
      nevertheless <em class="calibre7">did</em> come out apparently sane, non-evil,
      non-Dark-Lords.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In that light, maybe the Hat's description of Slytherin was a
      more subtle test. Because you'd have to put up with a <em class="calibre7">lot</em>
      more to get along in that House - being called cunning or even
      ruthless was the <em class="calibre7">mildest possible</em> taste of what awaited
      you. But that still left the most fundamental question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Why?</em>" Hermione breathed. Tracey gave her a long,
      thoughtful look, then shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why anything? <em class="calibre7">I</em> don't know, I've only <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      been a Slytherin for <em class="calibre7">four days</em>. But supposedly the
      Founders told the Hat to look for stuff they thought was important.
      I guess that Salazar must have decided that, even if students were
      miserable, or even went Dark...he wanted people who made it all the
      way through the House with <em class="calibre7">his</em> name, to be
      <em class="calibre7">strong</em>. To be <em class="calibre7">survivors</em>. Because you'd have to
      be, right?" They'd already been speaking softly, but the last words
      came out nearly inaudibly. She stared down at her wand, and
      Hermione felt such a swell of sympathy for the girl that she wanted
      to hug her, or hold her hand, or <em class="calibre7">something</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Hermione hadn't even taken a step forward, had barely
      shifted her weight, when Tracey's head snapped up and all of her
      earlier trepidation and uncertainty seemed to be replaced by firm,
      cold resolve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">FINITE INCANTATEM!</em>" she snapped, her pronunciation and
      wand motions perfect, and Hermione's wand light went out instantly,
      sending a sharp tingle into her hand and halfway down her arm.
      Hermione was <em class="calibre7">literally</em> taken aback, shuffling backwards a
      couple steps, so shocked was she at the Slytherin's abrupt
      emotional about-face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...I'm sorry if I something I said…" she began, but Tracey
      just shook her head and lit her wand, waiting expectantly, her face
      carefully neutral.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They spent the rest of the class in silence that was broken only
      to exchange flawless incantations. The tension was obvious to the
      rest of their classmates - and the Professor - but no one chose to
      comment on it at that particular moment, or at least not in earshot
      of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Professor Quirrell dismissed them, Hermione had intended to
      try to catch Tracey privately on their way to Transfiguration to
      attempt another apology and find out exactly <em class="calibre7">what</em> she'd
      done to so obviously upset the girl. But the Slytherin was first
      out the door, and once into the corridor, Hermione found her own
      way blocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need a word with you, Granger," said Theodore Nott, his thin
      frame somehow positioned perfectly so everyone else could pass by
      but Hermione couldn't quite join the flow to get around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me...<em class="calibre7">Mister</em> Nott, I'd be happy to speak with
      you some other time, but right now-" she began, testily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I think you <em class="calibre7">need</em> to hear what I have to
      say...won't take long," he said, oozing confidence. At a small
      rustling sound, Hermione lowered her gaze from where she'd been
      looking slightly up into his eyes and saw he was holding several
      sheets of paper, folded neatly into quarters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: Hopefully the juicy bits at the end make up for all those
      crunchy wads of exposition up front. ;)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Edit: Thanks to /u/MonstrousBird for the brit-pick on "public"
      school meaning the exact opposite of what a bewildered American
      would expect!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
