<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 12 - Leverage, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: Leverage</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: Thanks to /u/karlitohomes for catching my <em class="calibre7">several</em>
      Padma/Parvati flubs...darn twins. And /u/eric1221bday for another
      (Hufflepuff vs Ravenclaw), and /u/4t0m for "sort have"
      *<em class="calibre7">cringe</em>*.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 12 - Leverage</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, thank you for coming to me!" Hermione said, sincerely. "I'm
      sorry about being rather <em class="calibre7">dramatic</em> in the note there but
      there's no trouble really, so I can just take those back...and did
      you actually give a copy to someone like I suggested?" The
      Slytherin made no move to hand her the papers, only studied her
      thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't tell you, obviously," he said quietly, after a moment.
      "That was the whole point, wasn't it? So that if whatever is
      <em class="calibre7">possessing</em> you does something to <em class="calibre7">me</em> as well,
      there'd be a third line of defense?" Hermione sighed. He was
      absolutely right, and it's exactly what she would've
      <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> him to do in her original plan...but now it just
      made things complicated. She wished, once more, that she'd thought
      things through a little better. "The question is," he continued,
      "is that <em class="calibre7">actually</em> what's going on here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...er...oh?" Hermione stammered, caught off guard and tensing
      up. Could he have somehow figured out the same thing she had, about
      her future-self? That could be even <em class="calibre7">worse</em> than just having
      read what was there. The boy smiled a little bit, at her
      reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you're not possessed, for starters, I got that from the
      nurse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You...Madam Wainscott <em class="calibre7">told</em> you that?" Hermione was
      vaguely offended at the apparent breach of medical - or
      metaphysical? - confidentiality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told her I was afraid for my own safety, considering what
      happened to Madam Pomfrey…'what if what happened to that first-year
      wasn't just a hex, what if some Dark spirit was <em class="calibre7">doing</em>
      things with her body? Who could be next?'" He smiled a little. "Not
      my best by far, but she's <em class="calibre7">very</em> eager to keep students
      healthy and happy...assured me up and down that she'd specifically
      checked for possession and ruled it out." Hermione's offense
      immediately reversed direction, as she imagined the nurse's kind
      nature being turned against her, and even bringing up Madam
      Pomfrey. In her mental notes on the Slytherin Question, she added a
      tick-mark next to "Nott, Theodore".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, the whole thing is definitely made up...either because you
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> get hit by some obscure hex I'd never heard of, or
      because you did it deliberately. <em class="calibre7">Do</em> you actually believe
      the things in there are going to happen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned at the direct question. She thought they
      <em class="calibre7">might</em>, but she wasn't sure. But she wasn't sure if she
      should even say. She didn't know Theodore at all, didn't have any
      sense of how he'd react to things, so trying to manipulate him was
      right out, even if she <em class="calibre7">was</em> good at that sort of thing,
      which she knew she wasn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not in the way I think you're asking. I mean, anything's
      <em class="calibre7">possible</em>, but...this whole thing with the notes
      was...well, I didn't think it through enough. May I please just
      have them back and we can pretend this never happened?" The
      Slytherin nodded thoughtfully, though he was not agreeing to her
      request.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not <em class="calibre7">insisting</em> it's true, which could be because
      you made it up yourself, or the hex has just worn off and you're
      embarrassed. Anyway, I'm <em class="calibre7">curious</em>, but that's not really
      why we need to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm definitely embarrassed," Hermione mumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What you should be is <em class="calibre7">concerned</em>, if not outright
      terrified," continued the boy. Hermione didn't disagree, but she
      wasn't sure why <em class="calibre7">he</em> thought that, if he believed everything
      in the notes was made up…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you say that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, for starters, you've made some serious allegations and
      implications about prominent people, here. Ollivander. The
      <em class="calibre7">Malfoys</em>. At minimum, you've opened yourself to charges of
      Defamation and Impugning the Honor of a Noble House. Maybe the hex
      excuse could get you off, if you could afford a good enough
      barrister or had powerful people willing to stand for you in the
      Wizengamot, but maybe not - they can't just accept
      <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> claiming 'I was Confunded' or 'I was under an
      Imperius', you know, or no one would ever be convicted of
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This sounded unpleasantly likely to Hermione...handling
      questions of legal responsibility when things like the Imperius
      Curse and Memory Charms existed was a sticky problem. Hermione had
      read about something called Veritaserum, which could make someone
      not lie, or even force them to volunteer true answers, but there
      was an apparently undetectable antidote, as well as other ways
      around it, including Memory Charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then there's the matter of Potter announcing the Dark Lord's
      return. If an <em class="calibre7">actual</em> Death Eater read that and thought
      there was even the <em class="calibre7">slightest chance</em> of it being a real
      Prophecy, well…" Hermione put her hands to her mouth in horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They'd go after Harry," she breathed. Nott looked irritated and
      shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Well, I mean yes, but they'd have done that anyway,
      Boy-Who-Lived and all that. I meant they'd come for <em class="calibre7">you</em>.
      They'd rip every scrap of information they thought might be useful
      from your mind, and then torture you to produce <em class="calibre7">more</em>
      prophetic details, torture your parents, torture your
      pets...they're very big on torture, you know. Not that there are
      supposed to be any Death Eaters outside Azkaban anymore, but
      relying on the Ministry to have not missed <em class="calibre7">any</em>...mmm.
      <em class="calibre7">I</em> certainly wouldn't." Hermione paled, and thought she
      might be sick. The vision where the crazed witch was torturing
      Hermione's older self...was this how that started?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait...but all of this is only a problem if the notes get
      distributed! So you can just give them back, and get back any
      copies you made…" Hermione's eager solution trailed off as the
      Slytherin said nothing, the corners of his lips curling upwards
      ever so slightly. Hermione stared, uncomprehending, until she
      suddenly did. She found herself unable to say anything, even as
      some part of her mind was bitterly adding tick marks and checks and
      little dripping crosses beside "Nott, Theodore".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see you've finally realized the situation you put yourself
      in," said the boy, with considerable - almost <em class="calibre7">theatrical</em> -
      relish. Hermione had the bizarre impression that if he'd had a
      moustache, he'd have twirled it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you want?" asked Hermione, quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know, I haven't decided yet?" he replied cheerfully. "I
      thought it'd be <em class="calibre7">weeks</em> until I had leverage like this on
      anyone, and only after <em class="calibre7">loads</em> of work. I'd rub it in
      Malfoy's face, but then he'd start digging for details, and
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> could be awkward, eh?" Nott winked. "But just
      stumbling across this little gem, <em class="calibre7">literally</em> begging
      someone to pick it up and read it...feels like I didn't really
      <em class="calibre7">earn</em> it, you know?" For a moment Hermione dared to hope
      that some twisted sense of - what, blackmail-pride? - would get her
      out of this, but her heart sank as he continued. "Not that I really
      have a problem with that. Beyond power and wealth and honor and all
      that, it's what being a pure-blood <em class="calibre7">really means</em>...that
      good things happen to people like <em class="calibre7">me</em>, and bad things
      happen to people like <em class="calibre7">you</em>." Hermione felt blood rush to
      her cheeks, hot, liquid shame. She <em class="calibre7">knew</em> she didn't even
      have anything to be ashamed of, her parents were wonderful, but
      somehow, she felt it all the same, like being bullied but a hundred
      times worse. Because it wasn't about how she acted, or dressed,
      though those were bad enough. Simply because of what she
      <em class="calibre7">was</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione thought of herself as a very, very, good person, which
      was why she found her sudden daydreams of <em class="calibre7">very</em> nasty
      things happening to Theodore Nott equally curious and shameful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But not technically <em class="calibre7">unpleasant</em>, which on a deeper level
      made it even worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to have to think about this some more," he said,
      finally. "Rest assured, I'll come up with something worthwhile, and
      meanwhile I'm confident the extra copies I made will be quite
      safe...and won't be read until the proper time." With that, he
      turned and began walking towards the Transfiguration classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione found her wand in her left hand, somehow, the tip aimed
      at Theodore's back, and beginning the complicated shape that
      started a Memory Charm. Which was <em class="calibre7">insane</em>, Memory Charms
      were awful, they ought to be Unforgivable, and even if she'd seen a
      couple performed - at least memories of them, rather - she hadn't
      <em class="calibre7">practiced</em>, she could get it <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>, she <em class="calibre7">wasn't
      that kind of person-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wand clattered onto the floor as she forced her hand to
      open, interrupting the spell. The Slytherin paused at the noise,
      slowly half-turned his head back. His eyes dropped to the wand,
      then back to Hermione's face. He smiled a little, then continued
      walking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, hands shaking, picked up her wand and put it back in
      her bag, then slowly followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were odd looks as Nott, and ten seconds later Hermione,
      entered the classroom just before the period was to begin, and a
      couple of whispers, which the Slytherin ignored and Hermione barely
      registered. Tracey Davis was in a back corner, looking less
      determined and more nervous again as Daphne and Pansy in adjacent
      desks whispered at her urgently. Whereas Morag seemed a bit
      surprised to see Hermione come in, but quickly covered it.
      <em class="calibre7">Maybe since I was almost late she'd thought I was going to skip
      class?</em> Hermione thought, dully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hurriedly took a seat as Professor McGonagall sharply tapped
      her wand on her desk three times, and the class quieted. But before
      the Professor could even say a word, Morag had her hand in the
      air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Miss MacDougal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just wanted tae ask...did you ask Hermione not to help us
      with Transfiguration?" Morag's expression seemed entirely innocent,
      but expectant. The Professor paused, and most of the Ravenclaws
      unconsciously held their breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did," she said, simply. There was an audible exhalation of
      relief, even amongst those who had professed to believe Hermione's
      explanation, but Morag's face went dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" she asked, and she'd dropped any pretense at innocent
      curiosity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That a Professor has given an instruction ought to be
      sufficient, Miss MacDougal," the Professor said primly, but
      continued in a more conciliatory tone. "All I will say for the
      moment is that Miss Granger has had an <em class="calibre7">insight</em> about
      Transfiguration, but one which I am not yet sure is <em class="calibre7">safe</em>
      to be disclosed. Once I have made that determination, I may lift
      the restrictions I've given her, or not, as appropriate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's not <em class="calibre7">fair!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss MacDougal," said the Professor, warningly. She waited, and
      Morag glowered but said nothing, earning a nod from McGonagall.
      "There are many innate talents a witch may possess, or not,
      facilities for broomstick flying, or Charms, or Transfiguration,
      and these talents are <em class="calibre7">generally</em> not distributed fairly. In
      the long run, diligent study and practice almost <em class="calibre7">always</em>
      eclipses such inherent gifts. But regardless, be glad that in this
      case, Miss Granger's innovations <em class="calibre7">may</em> be something you can
      eventually benefit from, rather than something unique to her? I
      assure you that Miss Granger wanted nothing more than to share with
      the rest of the class, and is in fact undertaking additional work
      outside of class to explore making that possible." This caused a
      lot of the students, Slytherins included, to look at Hermione with
      an assortment of expressions, some baffled, some admiring, others
      thoughtful. The Professor paused again, and when there was no
      further interruption, began the day's lecture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's determination to treat Slytherins without prejudice
      or prejudgement was at an extremely low ebb, so it was probably for
      the best that her first Potions class was with Hufflepuff. They
      would be the first first-years to have Professor Snape - Gryffindor
      and Slytherin had their first Potions tomorrow morning - so no one
      knew for sure what it would be like. But upper-year Ravenclaws had
      said he was only a little more strict than McGonagall, though much
      less polite to students, whereas Ron had reported upper-year
      Gryffindors said he was horrible, unfair, vindictive and
      Not-Very-Secretly Evil, but of course that's what most students
      said about Slytherins in general, and Gryffindors promoted this
      view almost unanimously. It was also widely reported that Snape had
      been after the Defence Professorship for years (many speculated
      this was so he would be permitted to cast Dark spells on students
      for "educational" purposes).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This sort of muddy thinking tended to irritate Hermione, which
      was why she found it irritating in an entirely different way when
      Snape swept into the room, his black cloak flapping, and
      <em class="calibre7">looked</em> Evil. Not quite Dracula-Evil, but certainly as if
      he was actively working at it. Maybe this was just what you got
      when people gave up and <em class="calibre7">embraced</em> the Slytherin reputation.
      She supposed that could be a valid coping strategy for saving your
      sanity, though possibly at the cost of your soul - metaphorically
      speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He called roll in a businesslike fashion, then simply paused and
      stared at the class for a moment, which stretched on and on
      uncomfortably. No one chose to interrupt the silence, however - the
      Professor had a kind of cold intensity that made any such impulse
      seem unwise at best. Finally, he began to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Despite what many of you may believe," he began, slowly,
      "Potion-making is magic of the <em class="calibre7">highest</em> order, a subtle
      science and an exacting art, beautiful and unforgiving in equal
      measure. Potions carry insidious power, for by ingestion do they
      bypass our defences, traveling in our very blood, to our hearts,
      our brains, every fibre of our being. <em class="calibre7">Nothing</em> you possess
      cannot be improved upon, or <em class="calibre7">stolen away</em>, by the skilled
      application of the proper recipe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Potion-making is not like other magic. Like
      Transfiguration, it requires mental discipline, knowledge and
      attention to detail. Like Charms, it requires instinct, dexterity
      and memory. But unlike either, the strength of its effects come
      entirely from the <em class="calibre7">ingredients</em>, transformed by pure skill,
      not your own pathetically underdeveloped magical abilities. In
      other schools of magic, you still lack the strength to do true
      harm, even accidentally. But Potions will serve anyone with
      sufficient skill and knowledge, regardless of age. They will
      <em class="calibre7">punish</em> those who do not respect them. Make the wrong slip
      with the wrong substance of power...and you - and perhaps others -
      <em class="calibre7">will</em> join Madam Pomfrey." A couple of gasps greeted this,
      but the Professor looked more quietly pleased than irritated at the
      reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show the Art the <em class="calibre7">proper</em> respect, however, and you will
      see wonders...I can teach you to bottle fame, to brew glory, even
      stopper death...but only if you are <em class="calibre7">significantly</em> less
      idiotic than the wastes of salt I am typically forced to instruct."
      Hermione found herself, a bit surprisingly, respecting Professor
      Snape. It was a similar introduction as McGonagall had given for
      Transfiguration, with as much presence but more drama. And even
      though she recognized his last line as an attempt at manipulation,
      inspiring students to prove him wrong, it was working
      <em class="calibre7">anyway</em>...she <em class="calibre7">did</em> want to earn his respect - and
      it was clear he truly loved his subject, which in Hermione's
      experience was a quality the best teachers shared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By the time I've finished writing the ingredients for today's
      lesson on the blackboard," he said, turning to do as he'd said, "I
      expect you to have arranged yourselves in pairs and half-filled a
      cauldron with water from the gargoyle." Hermione looked around as
      students immediately began pairing up. She'd vaguely expected the
      Patil twins to find each other, since they'd gone to different
      houses. Padma seemed to think the same thing, heading in her
      sister's direction, but stopped short as Parvati immediately asked
      Neville Longbottom to be her partner. Seeing Padma's face fall a
      bit, Hermione saw an opportunity to reciprocate Parvati's kindness
      in Defence and tapped her on the shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Want to team up? Between the two of us, we can probably finish
      early and maybe get points for helping others?" The other girl
      smiled at the casual assumption of their combined superiority and
      quickly agreed. As the class continued and they dutifully followed
      Professor Snape's instructions - but quickly, as they'd both read
      ahead to know what was coming - Padma dared some quiet
      conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, really, Hermione, what's going on? When you came into
      Transfiguration, you looked even <em class="calibre7">worse</em> than you did in
      Defence, but you're not just feeling unwell, you're
      <em class="calibre7">thinking</em> about something, I can tell." Hermione was
      starting to get very tired of not being able to tell people things,
      but she brightened a smidge as she realized that in this case maybe
      she <em class="calibre7">could</em> say something, since it would seem entirely
      reasonable to withhold details. And she'd dearly appreciate some
      emotional support, if not actual assistance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Say someone had found something you'd written that you didn't
      want other people to see," Hermione said, too quietly to be
      overheard, "something embarrassing, or very private...and they knew
      that you felt that way and planned to use that to get you to do
      something or give them money, or...whatever, something you wouldn't
      ordinarily do. How would you get out of it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nott is <em class="calibre7">blackmailing</em> you?" Padma said immediately, and
      Hermione looked around in alarm since her fellow Ravenclaw had been
      not <em class="calibre7">quite</em> as quiet as Hermione would have preferred. No
      one appeared to have heard her, but Hermione held a finger to her
      lips urgently, even as her mind spun. How did...what...what? But
      her confusion lasted only a moment, replaced with chagrin. She'd
      come in too closely behind Nott...and he'd been giving her looks
      that anyone could've noticed, even if they hadn't known what they
      meant. And she'd forgotten that other people could be clever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably. He says he's thinking about it," Hermione
      whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what is it of yours that he's got?" Padma asked, finally
      matching Hermione's conspiratorial tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry...I can't really say, can I?" Hermione noted, and
      thankfully Padma accepted this, nodding thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could go to Flitwick, I suppose," she suggested after a
      moment. "If it's really your property, he'll be able to find it
      with spells, and he might even Memory Charm Nott so he couldn't
      spill your secrets to anyone." Hermione frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't like Memory Charms...but also, Nott said he's made
      copies, and <em class="calibre7">those</em> aren't my property - plus I don't know
      who he's given them to or what he's told them...even if he's Memory
      Charmed, they might realize somehow and then just tell him again,
      or distribute everything?" Padma frowned, and nodded slowly as they
      continued brewing their Boil-Curing Potion. Their tête-à-tête was
      briefly interrupted by a cry from Padma's sister, who was yanking
      Neville's arm away from the cauldron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Neville! We have to take the cauldron off the fire
      <em class="calibre7">before</em> adding the quills," Parvati said urgently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right, right," Neville agreed nervously, though he
      immediately started to do so by grasping the small round pot by its
      sides rather than the handle and yelped as his fingers were singed.
      Fortunately he hadn't lifted it far enough to spill anything when
      he hastily dropped the cauldron, though it teetered dangerously for
      a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point from Hufflepuff for Longbottom's idiocy, point to
      Hufflepuff for Miss Patil's timely intervention," snapped Snape
      from across the classroom, and if anyone thought it peculiar for
      the Professor to cancel a penalty with an award (or vice versa), no
      one thought it prudent to mention. "Longbottom, there's unguent in
      the third drawer from the top on the left at the front of the room,
      see to your hands...if you're <em class="calibre7">very</em> lucky, your partner
      will successfully finish the potion before you can return and make
      another attempt to ruin it." There were a couple of titters from
      Ravenclaws, but most everyone else just looked scared, or grateful
      they weren't the target of the Professor's sharp tongue. Despite
      having prevented disaster and "earning" a point for Hufflepuff,
      Parvati seemed as dejected as Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She fancies him," whispered Padma to Hermione, who had been
      puzzling out Parvati's reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep, ever since the train...she won't explain it either. Maybe
      she <em class="calibre7">can't</em>," mused Padma, whose expression said
      <em class="calibre7">she</em> certainly found it inexplicable. Hermione, who
      understood romance (or at least hormones) intellectually but hadn't
      yet been afflicted <em class="calibre7">personally</em>, found herself in agreement.
      They finished the next-to-last step of their potion, then lapsed
      into thoughtful silence while they waited for the small sand-glass
      to empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, of course," said Padma suddenly. "You've just got to get
      something similar on <em class="calibre7">him</em>. So if he ever let out your
      secret, you can let out <em class="calibre7">his</em> - that way, if he knows what's
      good for him, he'll just drop the whole thing." Hermione considered
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mutually Assured Destruction? Hmm...I'm not sure I could go
      through with that, I really try to be as ethical a person as I
      can…" Padma gave her a peculiar look, then shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't matter, as long as <em class="calibre7">he</em> believes that you
      <em class="calibre7">might</em> go through with it, it'll be enough. You can
      <em class="calibre7">pretend</em> to be Slytherin, right?" Hermione was about to
      correct her use of Slytherin as a pejorative, but before a word
      came out of her mouth, everyone went quiet as a voice hissed above
      them, loud enough to reach every corner of the classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you listen to a <em class="calibre7">single</em> word I said?" asked
      Professor Snape, his voice icy. "Idiocy is one thing, but your
      otherwise exemplary performance up to this point suggests that
      <em class="calibre7">you</em> two know better...and yet are now
      <em class="calibre7">disrespecting</em> your potion with your inattentive gossip."
      Padma tried to point out that she'd totally been watching the
      sand-glass, and it still had two minutes left, but the Professor
      rolled on relentlessly. "What was this discussion about that you
      deemed more important than your <em class="calibre7">education</em>, your
      <em class="calibre7">safety</em>, and the <em class="calibre7">safety</em> of your fellow
      students?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared up at him, wide-eyed, as his cold, dark eyes
      bored down at her. Being yelled at by a teacher was an entirely
      foreign concept that she was simply not emotionally prepared for,
      and only her raw shock was for the moment holding back the tears
      that were likely coming. Particularly since he was <em class="calibre7">right</em>,
      even if he was being overly harsh about it...since when did
      <em class="calibre7">she</em> jabber on during classes, let alone <em class="calibre7">dangerous</em>
      ones? Not that it wasn't important to keep herself out of Nott's
      devious clutches, or more so, to prevent him from revealing to any
      hypothetically-at-large Death Eaters that she <em class="calibre7">knew</em>
      Voldemort was going to-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape abruptly backed a single step away from her, his
      expression not changing in the slightest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Regardless of <em class="calibre7">your</em> opinions, It was <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      important. <em class="calibre7">Keep it to yourself</em>," he spat, then swept over
      to Terry and Kevin's table and began ruthlessly berating them for
      the their failure to stir evenly. Padma and Hermione glanced at
      each other in nervous confusion, each wanting to say "He forgot to
      take points from us," but unwilling to risk any speech at all. At
      least the strange reprieve had jolted Hermione out of her emotional
      tailspin before she'd shed any tears. Through everything, she'd
      felt Morag's inexplicably resentful eyes on her the whole time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only after class was finished - all the students had
      practically sprinted out of his classroom, and he'd firmly shut and
      sealed the door with efficient twitches of his wand - that the
      wizard let his iron control slip. A bead of sweat formed at his
      temple, and his eyes showed some of what he'd felt upon casually
      invading the young girl's mind, as was his habit - ostensibly to
      keep his skills in practice, but at least in part simply for his
      own amusement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus Snape sat alone for some time, struggling to overcome
      his shock. And fear.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
