<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 1 - Statistical Sampling, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Statistical Sampling</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 1 - Statistical Sampling</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Granger was not like other girls her age. That much
      could be clearly illustrated - and had been - via simple bell curve
      charts based on surveys she'd given to her classmates. She'd asked
      how many books they'd read in the past year, how many books on
      average they read per week, and so on. In every relevant category,
      the dot that represented Hermione was sitting by itself off on the
      right side of the paper (except the chart showing school absences,
      where she was on the left, instead).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was just as clearly (if more symbolically) illustrated in
      noting how few other girls had <em class="calibre7">administered surveys</em>, and
      that no one else at all had calculated the standard deviations. But
      that was something Hermione had learned early on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At first, whenever she had a question, the path to answering it
      was simple - ask an adult, or find the right book. But she'd
      eventually discovered that there were some questions that weren't
      answered in books. Usually, because the question wasn't important
      enough that anyone else had asked it, or it was very
      <em class="calibre7">specific</em>. So she stepped back to the problem of
      question-answering in general, and there were a great many books
      about <em class="calibre7">that</em>. They were so interesting, in fact, that she
      couldn't remember what question she'd wanted to answer in the first
      place when she'd come up for air a week or so later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But now she had some tools for figuring such things out, even if
      other people seemed to use them even <em class="calibre7">less</em> than they used
      books. Of course, these tools had their own difficulties at times.
      Take statistical sampling, for example. You needed a large enough
      pool of examples before you could be at all confident about any
      patterns you thought you saw. That began to become troublesome when
      Hermione's classmates started answering her surveys unhelpfully, or
      even <em class="calibre7">untruthfully</em>. They seemed to think it was funny (and
      based on the proportion of students who laughed, objectively it
      probably <em class="calibre7">was</em> funny, even if it didn't seem like it to
      her).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were questions that were hard to pin down for other
      reasons, though. She'd begun to notice...odd things. Coincidences,
      you could call them, taken individually. Sometimes when she was
      particularly excited to look something up, the book she wanted
      seemed to leap off the shelf into her hand before she'd really
      pulled on it at all. The time she'd been having trouble tuning out
      other students' chattering at school while she read, then suddenly
      gone deaf for half the day. The horrifying occasion when she'd
      accidentally <em class="calibre7">torn</em> the page of a library book - or thought
      she had - but when she looked at it again, the page was quite
      unblemished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How could you account for that, though? Unlikely things didn't
      happen very often taken in isolation, but collect a few million
      people and have them do a few dozen things every day, and they
      happened to everyone, <em class="calibre7">all the time</em>. Just because Hermione
      seemed to notice more pleasant coincidences than not didn't mean
      that formed a <em class="calibre7">real pattern</em>. The idea of 'luck' was just a
      combination of superstition and people not understanding
      probability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Besides, for every minor thing she might call mildly lucky,
      there were other examples of misfortune. Her front teeth, for
      example, protruded a bit. When other children had teased her about
      them, she'd done her best to ignore it, but she'd also naturally
      looked at a few books, and it seemed like something easily fixed
      with orthodontia. Yet when she'd brought it up to her parents - who
      were dentists, after all - she got nowhere. They seemed to think
      orthodontists were stuck-up and unjustly full of themselves and
      were thus quite against employing them for any reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, the question of these coincidences remained, tucked in
      the back of her head along with a few other open mysteries, like
      what caused differences in individual preferences (specifically,
      why so few other students ever cared to raise their hands in
      class), or why it was so hard for her to make friends. Things she
      kept lightly in mind, just in case she happened to read some odd
      fact or theory that might clear everything up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One summer afternoon in 1991, after receiving a certain Letter,
      she did in fact read something that <em class="calibre7">purported</em> to clear
      everything up. However, considering it did so by suggesting that
      nearly a third of everything else Hermione had ever read was wrong
      (or at least woefully incomplete), it was rather difficult to
      accept at face value.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, it was possible it was just a prank - she'd been on
      the receiving end of many over the years - though if so it had
      required rather more research than anyone had gone to previously.
      It had been addressed with peculiar specificity, down to the
      position of her bedroom (First Bedroom on the Left, Second Floor),
      which, to her knowledge, none of her classmates knew, as she'd
      never had occasion to invite any of them over. But it would not
      have been all <em class="calibre7">that</em> difficult to find out if someone had
      been properly determined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If it <em class="calibre7">was</em> a prank, however, she didn't see what the
      payoff would be, seeing as the letter had advised her to expect a
      school representative to arrive at her home in three days to
      'explain the situation more fully' to her and her parents. If it
      had said she was to post a ten pound note 'for registration' or to
      go to some remote location where pranksters might show up and pelt
      her with toads or something similarly imaginative, that might have
      made more sense. But surely no prankster would be eager to face Mr.
      and Mrs. Granger, who were no-nonsense sort of people, and likely
      to give short shrift to any such shenanigans, particularly at their
      own home?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd have just asked her parents, but they were still at work,
      and the Letter gnawed at her, so naturally, she walked to the local
      library. After a couple hours of very interesting reading
      (primarily in the New Age and History sections), she'd decided that
      believing in things that didn't provide much helpful evidence was
      probably an effective way of practicing creativity, as the latter
      gave a strong showing in books on 'practical magic' while the
      former was seemingly absent. Nor was there any hint of the
      existence of any school called 'Hogwarts', past or present.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two hours in a library might have exhausted the patience,
      curiosity (or likely, both) of an average eleven-year-old, but
      Hermione had been gifted with perseverance to match her
      intelligence, and she was not nearly inclined to give up yet -
      though unfortunately she didn't have much time before her parents
      were due home for dinner. Accordingly, she went to the reference
      desk and got the telephone numbers for every government agency she
      thought might be relevant to a school for magic, then walked
      home.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
