<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 21: Interlude - Tempus Torqueri (1 of 2), a harry potter...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17.1: Interlude - Tempus Torqueri (1 of 2)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The young woman strode purposefully towards the medium-sized
      building, weaving through the moderate Paddington pedestrian
      traffic. She was wearing an outfit that was coordinated enough not
      to excite notice from muggles, but with enough concessions to
      magical style that it wouldn't be off-putting - at worst a little
      drab - to people with whom she met. Her hair's normal resistance to
      order was opposed only by being tied back into a ponytail with a
      saffron scarf, and she was sensibly - given the amount of walking
      she'd been doing - wearing trainers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took the stairs to the third floor - in a concession to
      maintaining reasonable fitness, the young woman never took a lift
      for less than four flights - and quickly found the correct door.
      She followed policy and checked her wand (in a Disillusioned waist
      holster), checked her PASS (active, two layers), took a moment to
      draw herself up in an official bearing, and knocked three times,
      firmly. A woman of middling years wearing a dark orange housedress
      answered the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mrs. Conphelia Alderdosh?" she asked. The older woman nodded.
      "My name is Hermione Granger, I'm here from the Ministry on a DRCMC
      check, may I come in?" She said it in a matter-of-fact way,
      pointedly not looking around or speaking in conspiratorial tones.
      There weren't any witnesses in the hallway, but while a
      hypothetical muggle who'd overheard might have thought the Ministry
      reference oddly non-specific, they'd be unlikely to think it
      suspicious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, about Philbert? By all means, come in, come in," Mrs.
      Alderdosh chirped, retreating back into the flat. "Can I get you
      anything, tea?" she asked, after Hermione had stepped inside,
      closing the door behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, thank you," Hermione said, politely, "I shouldn't need to
      stay long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Frizzy-haired rat's nest!" said an improbably large ferret,
      considerably less politely. It wasn't actually a ferret, of course,
      but a Jarvey - a magical cousin with an impressive ability to
      speak, and the unfortunate restriction of only doing so to deliver
      a steady stream of insults. "Bossy!" The speech and generally
      <em class="calibre7">well-aimed</em> quality of the insults ought to have implied
      <em class="calibre7">some</em> degree of sapience, but the relentlessness of the
      abuse had discouraged optimistic investigation on that topic, and
      Jarveys remained firmly classified as Beasts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione observed the condition of the flat, the creature
      itself, and its owner, and removed the short quill from the
      clipboard she held. On the form secured to the clipboard, she
      dutifully checked four boxes next to "3f, 24 Praed Street,
      Paddington/Mrs. Conphelia Alderosh/Jarvey x 1/Philbert", and under
      the columns "Creature Present", "Conditions Satisfactory", "Health
      Satisfactory (Creature)", and "Health Satisfactory (Owner)",
      respectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any plans to sell or give Philbert to anyone in the near
      future?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Testy! Nosey!" cried the Jarvey. <em class="calibre7">Perhaps to the ward at St.
      Mungo's for Excessive Masochism?</em> Hermione thought in a silent
      amendment to her question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no, I couldn't bear to part with him - he's all that I have
      for company since my dear Flurvis passed on," the woman said,
      smiling sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Senile! Shut-in! Cow-faced prune!" added Philbert, unhelpfully.
      Hermione checked off one last box, and nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you Mrs. Alderosh, that's all I needed. I can let myself
      out." The other witch's smile was touched with disappointment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, are you <em class="calibre7">sure</em> you don't want to stay?" Hermione
      felt a bit bad for the woman, who clearly would have enjoyed some
      polite company, but not bad enough to want to remain a minute
      longer than she had to. And she <em class="calibre7">was</em> on a schedule. Not
      that anyone but her would really care if she were less
      efficient.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, I still have quite a few visits left today," she said,
      tapping her clipboard. "Thank you for your time, and have a nice
      day." She quickly left the flat, but couldn't close the door fast
      enough to avoid hearing a final salvo from Philbert.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Heartless Ministry drone!" Hermione winced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wondered if anyone had tried Cheering Charms, or maybe a
      Confundus...obviously a Silencing Charm would've worked - but then,
      presumably the sort of person who opted to keep a Jarvey as a pet
      would prefer them just as they were. But this thought was less
      serious problem-solving and more to distract herself from how close
      to home that last jibe had hit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she went back to the stairs to go up two more flights to her
      next check-in, she wondered - as she often did these days - if she
      was doing the right thing. After she'd finished her N.E.W.T.s,
      joining the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical
      Creatures had seemed like a good way for her to do some immediately
      <em class="calibre7">constructive</em> things for magical Britain. She could
      leverage her personal experience with Elves, at the very least get
      the current welfare laws enforced more often, ideally push to get
      them expanded. Then Centaurs, Goblins, maybe even Giants! The idea
      of a world where all intelligent creatures were treated equally,
      given the same access to education and wands...it appealed directly
      to her idealism, and while Voldemort's final defeat - and his
      association with <em class="calibre7">in</em>equality - was fresh in the public's
      minds was the perfect time to do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somehow things hadn't worked out quite as she'd imagined. Sure,
      she was helping with Elvish welfare in her own small way - she'd
      been responsible for nearly a hundred citations in her first six
      months alone - but it seemed that sweeping her exams and helping
      defeat Dark Lords didn't excuse her from Ministry policy, which for
      the DRCMC meant two training years no matter <em class="calibre7">how</em> smart or
      semi-famous you were. Endless check-ins with registered owners of
      Magical Creatures, making sure the things hadn't died, escaped,
      been sold, gotten loose and eaten their owners, etc. Occasionally
      there were warnings, or citations, almost never any excitement - if
      there's any <em class="calibre7">active</em> suspicion of problems or criminal
      activity, they don't send a trainee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rechecked the next address on her clipboard, paused at
      the door, then checked wand, PASS, and posture. Policy. She sighed,
      and knocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Coeur-arbre</em>, she thought as she glanced down at her
      clipboard, <em class="calibre7">that's interesting at least</em>. It was a rare
      magical tree - limited sentience with no mobility beyond willingly
      shedding its leaves, but still barely enough to require check-ins.
      Beyond decoration, the only recorded use was the leaves, a Class E
      Tradable, that could be used as an ingredient in a few minor
      potions. Not love potions per se, despite the name, more like
      "nostalgia"...rekindling friendship, bringing back fond memories,
      that sort of thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because she was still looking at the clipboard when the man
      opened the door, she missed his rapid series of expressions, from a
      look of irritation, to surprise and alarm, then determination. All
      she saw was the determination, and she hadn't even registered the
      import of the wand in his hand when he immediately hit her with a
      powerful curse and she flew backwards, her body and head slamming
      evenly into the opposite wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The curse - whatever it was - had shattered the outer layer of
      her PASS, but left the inner intact - the combined efforts of that
      layer and the Impact Absorbing Charm she prudently cast on herself
      whenever she was going near muggle traffic had likely saved her
      from a nasty concussion, or worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man, a dark-haired fellow with a thin scar under his left
      eye, was wearing the sort of mismatched but highly functional robes
      and gear favored equally by Cursebreakers, Security Witches, and
      criminals. His wand was short, dark and gnarled. In the flat behind
      him...well, Hermione was a little dazed and still wasn't sure
      <em class="calibre7">what</em> she was seeing, but it was obviously highly magical
      and made her eyes as wide as saucers. Despite her slight dizziness
      and not having been in serious magical combat for almost three
      years now, she was grimly pleased to note that the clipboard had
      been dropped and her wand was already in her hand, poised equally
      to reinforce her PASS, stun, or deflect as necessary. Her attacker
      swore, and rather than following up with another assault, instead
      he slammed the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione immediately restored the outer layer of her Persistent
      Accommodating Shield Spell, then added a third and fourth layer for
      good measure. Stacking multiple layers like this was a lot more
      difficult than it sounded, but then, she <em class="calibre7">had</em> invented the
      spell. The tiny, invisible hole in each layer - which allowed the
      spell to protect in all directions yet still permit outgoing magic
      - rotated around her in carefully mismatched orbits, and would only
      ever snap into mutual alignment for the split second it took one of
      her own spells to pass through them. Only once that was done did
      she hesitate. DRCMC policy when encountering a suspected criminal
      was to withdraw safely, Apparate to the DMLE emergency reception
      area, brief whoever was on duty and let the Aurors handle it. But
      her brief glimpse of the completely unfamiliar magic behind the
      door suggested a powerful ritual of some sort was going on in
      there, and given the man's immediate resort to violence, it
      probably wasn't a spell to summon kittens. There might not be any
      <em class="calibre7">time</em> to spare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Also</em>, she told herself, <em class="calibre7">I am</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">not</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">a Ministry drone, no matter what
      Malfoy's spirit animal might say...I am a</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">Gryffindor</strong></em><em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione flicked her wand to open the door, and when -
      unsurprisingly - it did not open, she flicked it again in a
      wordless Unlocking Charm. When it <em class="calibre7">still</em> didn't open, she
      dismissed it entirely from consideration, took a step to the side,
      then hit the <em class="calibre7">wall</em> with a Silencing Charm and a Bombardment
      Curse in quick succession. She buried her mouth into the crook of
      her free arm to avoid choking on the sudden dust from the eerily
      soundless burst of frame wood and plaster that left a now
      person-sized opening into the flat. Another twist of her wand and
      the dust fell to the floor en masse like iron filings pulled to a
      magnet, allowing her a clear view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man, against a wall and half-prone from the blast, had
      nevertheless maintained concentration on his immediate task, which
      apparently had been enchanting a scrap of paper. It flew out the
      open window behind him, trailing smoke like a jet fighter's
      exhaust, and with similar speed. Seeing Hermione through the hole,
      he swore again and his features tightened. Unwilling to launch a
      stunner anywhere near the active field of an unknown ritual,
      Hermione ducked under the plane of eldritch light and physically
      lunged forward instead, but she was too late - her hand passed
      through the space where he'd been a moment earlier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione did not swear out loud, though she did allow herself to
      <em class="calibre7">think</em> a few extremely nasty phrases.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't waste much time on self-recrimination, however, and
      immediately took stock of the situation. The flat was dominated by
      the Coeur-arbre, growing out of a large flat plot of dirt somehow -
      presumably magically - set into the floor. Every one of its rather
      pretty pinkish-silver leaves was strewn about the floor, leaving
      the tree looking thin and bare. Beyond that, a spinning contraption
      of some kind had been driven into the trunk of the tree. A luminous
      rosy silver fluid was dripping from it, as if it were a tap for
      maple syrup, but the intensely magical substance was twisting in
      skeins through the air of the room about five feet above the floor.
      It aligned in patterns above complex Arithmantic diagrams which had
      been laid out on the floor in chalk, and which Hermione had -
      miraculously, in her current judgement - not disturbed when she'd
      rushed forward to try to force a Side-Along with the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A Finite probably isn't going to cut it here,</em> Hermione
      thought, swallowing against a suddenly dry throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The patterns in the air were shifting with increasing speed.
      Hermione edged back out from under the the active magic, then
      turned carefully away. She pointed her wand to a clear space near
      the hole in the wall, concentrating firmly on Dearest Ronald, but
      <em class="calibre7">thinking</em> about the message she wanted to send to the DMLE,
      which was roughly as follows: <em class="calibre7">Go to the duty officer in DMLE
      emergency reception, and tell them DRCMC trainee Hermione Granger
      reports that there is an unknown ritual in progress in 5c, 24 Praed
      Street, Paddington. One male suspect - dark hair, scar under left
      eye, wand, uh, seven inches, gnarled, ash I think - assaulted me
      and Disapparated. Ritual appears to be self-sustaining, may be
      unstable, I will begin efforts to analyse and contain it, but you
      might want to call in an Herbology specialist and maybe an
      Unspeakable, as it involves previously unreported properties of a
      Coeur-arbre.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expecto Patronum!" she cried, with the appropriate brandish.
      The shining otter that burst from her wand did a tight lap in the
      air around her head - the brief look of reproach it seemed to give
      her might have been due to the length of her message, but was
      probably just her imagination - then streaked off. That much
      handled, Hermione quickly (and belatedly) added a Muggle-repelling
      Charm to the area around the hole in the wall, then addressed all
      her attention to the animated skeins of what she'd decided for the
      moment to call "Coeur-arbre syrup". Carefully moving around the
      active area, she stepped close to the edge of the Arithmantic
      diagrams on the floor. From what she could gather at a glance, they
      were doing very little active functional transformation, and
      instead seemed to be simply focusing and concentrating the syrup
      itself, along with whatever properties it held. <em class="calibre7">Presumably</em>
      with the intent of leveraging those properties to some purpose, but
      you never could tell with people who were crazy enough to do
      unsupervised magical research.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione inscribed a quick Arithmantic series of diagnostic
      formulae in the air - glowing symbols trailing from her wand's tip
      - as close as she could to one of the skeins at the edge of the
      field. Almost immediately the formulae flared into painful
      brilliance, then exploded into motes. Hermione tensed...one of the
      Fundamental Magics...at <em class="calibre7">least</em> one. Her wand darted into
      action again as she swiftly traced out more symbols, starting a
      much more involved set of formulae. Hopefully, <em class="calibre7">these</em> would
      hold and she could get at least enough of a handle on what was
      happening here to safely-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her hopes and inscribing both were interrupted, as someone came
      sprinting into the flat through the hole in the wall, skidded
      out-of-control on the dust-covered floor, and slammed bodily into
      her. Hermione fairly <em class="calibre7">shrieked</em> in shock and spun around
      with the hit, allowing her a view of a young woman her own age. The
      woman's echoing shriek, and the expression of dismay that was
      straining her own features made it difficult to be certain, but,
      considering the line on Hermione's clipboard for this flat had
      listed the tree's owner as "Ms. T. Davis", she could see a certain
      resemblance to her former classmate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What are you</em>-" the woman began to shout, but her eyes
      widened even further - to the point where they threatened to
      eclipse her forehead - and she reached out towards Hermione, who
      felt herself tipping off-balance from the spin. The woman's fingers
      closed around Hermione's arm at the same time Hermione's head
      intersected the skein she'd been trying to analyze, the lambent
      syrup cutting through four layers of PASS like they hadn't been
      cast at all - or more precisely, like they hadn't been cast
      <em class="calibre7">yet</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione <em class="calibre7">felt</em> it happen, and she wanted to be
      exasperated, but somehow as all light and thought vanished, all she
      felt was contentment, familiarity, <em class="calibre7">wonder</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked around, in considerable confusion. The flat was gone,
      the Coeur-arbre, the ritual, Tracey (if that had actually been
      her)...instead, she was in a bookshop. Which was still somehow
      comforting, despite its current inexplicability. Hermione
      recognized it almost immediately as Flourish and Blotts in Diagon
      Alley, which at least answered - partially, anyway - one of the
      dozen or so questions now fighting for attention in her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The shop bustled with its usual activity, with witches and
      wizards of all ages criss-crossing the shop and politely elbowing
      each other for room. It thus did not take long at all for
      Hermione's confusion to shift gears when one of the aforementioned
      joints - belonging to a passing witch - sailed through her body
      with no resistance, or indeed reaction on the part of its
      owner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er…" said Hermione. Her first thought was that the Coeur-arbre
      syrup had acted like a Pensieve, but she'd finally had the chance
      to use one during her DRCMC training (for "first-hand" exposure to
      otherwise excessively rare or dangerous creatures), and while her
      current surroundings did have a very slight hazy cast to them, it
      seemed like a subjectively different <em class="calibre7">sort</em> of hazy cast.
      She then examined this thought, did not think highly of it, and
      wondered if she might be suffering some sort of after-effects. But
      only idly...it didn't seem important, somehow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her attention was drawn to a small commotion - a pair of wizards
      were leaning over to observe something hidden from her view behind
      a small stand of copies of perennial-bestseller, <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, a
      History</em>. She walked around the stand to see better, and
      suddenly felt like she'd been punched in the stomach. There,
      sprawled on the floor, was a young girl in muggle attire, a mass of
      brown bushy hair framing her face. On one side of her was a bag
      from Flourish and Blotts, filled with the official class books the
      girl had responsibly purchased before beginning her personal
      browsing. On the other side, beneath her fingertips, was a crisp
      new copy of <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, a History</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl's face was pale, her eyes closed, and the wizards were
      arguing about whether to try another spell since
      <em class="calibre7">Rennervate</em> hadn't worked, or just have one of them set
      straight off for St. Mungo's to fetch a Mediwitch, and if so, which
      of them would go and which would stay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione realized several things in quick succession. The girl
      was <em class="calibre7">herself</em>, on her first trip to Diagon Alley. This was
      not a memory, Pensieve or otherwise, because she certainly hadn't
      fainted in the bookstore. The unknown ritual with the Coeur-arbre
      had presented as involving at <em class="calibre7">least</em> one Fundamental Magic,
      one of which, of course, was Time. And finally - and most
      alarmingly - as she watched her younger self grow paler, she
      herself felt increasingly invigorated, her thoughts more clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A <em class="calibre7">Horcrux</em>?" she whispered, horror racing with
      bafflement and edging into a slight lead. Her dismay easily tripled
      as one of the wizards looked up, then back and forth in her general
      direction, as if he'd <em class="calibre7">heard</em> her, but wasn't able to see
      her. Yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Immediately, she stepped forward and kicked her own hand away
      from the book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or at least that was her intention, if perhaps an ill-considered
      one given her current intangibility. As it happened, her hand
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> move away from the book, but it was entirely due to
      the full-body startle she gave when she abruptly found herself
      <em class="calibre7">inhabiting</em> her younger self's body, staring up at two
      suddenly-relieved-looking wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, it must've just taken a moment to kick in," said the
      shorter wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you quite all right, young lady?" asked the other. "Do you
      need help to St. Mungo's, or perhaps finding your guardian?" Now
      incarnated, she could somehow <em class="calibre7">feel</em> her younger self's mind
      beneath her own, as if it were an egg on a table and she was
      pressing her hand on it with steadily increasing force. With all
      her willpower, she rejected this sensation, "pulled" her hand away.
      And it seemed to work, her younger mind felt less endangered. But
      at the same time, she now felt a "hollow place" at the top of her
      own mind, very slowly pulsing, pushing out cracks. It was a deeply
      disquieting sensation, but she could obviously cope with it in the
      short term if the alternative was somehow draining her own life
      force away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That handled for the moment, she regarded the book on the floor
      warily, as if it were a live, poisonous snake. But there was no
      point in getting rid of it...if it <em class="calibre7">was</em> somehow a horcrux
      akin to Riddle's diary - or something close to it, since she
      certainly hadn't killed anyone to create it (unless she'd killed
      herself?) - it wouldn't matter, she was already linked to it. And
      it seemed to be working <em class="calibre7">much</em> faster, perhaps because it
      was her <em class="calibre7">own</em> spirit trying to (or trying not to, rather)
      steal her <em class="calibre7">own</em> life force. But there appeared to be a
      degenerative factor in her refusal...possibly if she just waited it
      out, the link would fade and break.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss? Miss?" One of the wizard's repeated calls finally
      penetrated, and Hermione realized she needed to begin acting
      <em class="calibre7">immediately</em> to limit any changes to History. If she - or a
      part of her soul - <em class="calibre7">had</em> been flung back through Time by
      whatever had happened, the normal "protections" of a Time-Turner
      might not apply. She hastily picked up her (soon-to-be) copy of
      <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, a History</em> and her bag of other books and stood
      up, past the gentle pressure of the wizards' hands as they urged
      caution.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm all right now, really. Just a medical condition, ah,
      Transient Ischemic Fluctuations, happens to a lot of muggle-borns…"
      she said, hoping neither of the wizards themselves were
      muggle-borns. They still looked concerned, but a little less so -
      jargon could be comforting, putting something in a nicely defined
      box that said that <em class="calibre7">someone</em> understood it, even if that
      someone wasn't you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You still really ought to get that checked at St. Mungo's,"
      urged the taller wizard, "They can deal with most muggle diseases
      pretty easily, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," said Hermione, "my parents have a pamphlet, they're
      taking me there straight away after we finish shopping, I'm just
      browsing while they get everything else. They'll probably be back
      here in no more than two hours or so, if you want to wait?" This
      was a gamble, but she hoped the assurance combined with the
      <em class="calibre7">inconvenience</em> of minding her for up to two hours would
      dissuade the would-be Samaritan wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, well, that's probably all right then," said the shorter
      wizard. "We ought to be going anyway. But you might want to use one
      of the chairs in the Reading Corner," he suggested, pointing
      towards a nook off to the side of the clerks' registers, "just in
      case you fall down again?" Hermione nodded encouragingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, that's an excellent idea...I just need to buy this
      first. Thank you <em class="calibre7">so much</em>, you've both been very kind." The
      taller wizard still looked uncertain, but allowed his companion to
      pull him away as Hermione headed towards a register queue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She bought the book, and quickly performed her traditional
      ritual of inscribing her name - though she suspected whatever
      strange magic was at work had marked the book far more securely as
      <em class="calibre7">hers</em> than anything she could have done deliberately.
      Bringing her first trip to Flourish and Blotts to mind, she
      recalled finding <em class="calibre7">Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth
      Century</em> next, so she put <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, a History</em> into her
      bag of purchases and hurriedly found the proper shelf. She put one
      hand on a copy, then paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her sense of her past self's mind suggested that even if it
      wasn't in control, it was <em class="calibre7">active</em> somehow, at least a
      little, and Hermione feared that meant she'd <em class="calibre7">remember</em> some
      of this...certainly enough that she'd ask questions about it that
      she'd definitely never asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Working with a light, instinctive touch, she experimentally ran
      mental fingers through her younger mind as if it was a book, and
      found she received impressions of what was on each "page".
      Encouraged, she continued, until she found a section that felt
      correct, right up at the "end". Hermione hesitated a moment, wary
      of relying on inexplicable abilities she didn't understand, but
      every moment that passed increased the risk to History. She closed
      her eyes and whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, but this is for our own good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pulled sharply, <em class="calibre7">tearing</em>, and she felt it as a
      searing burn across her own psyche. She felt herself slipping and
      deliberately turned it into a sort of fumbling mental acrobatics,
      "flinging" her younger self's mind "upward" while she dropped
      "beneath". Throughout the maneuver, she was relieved - sort of - to
      note that the hollow place stayed firmly affixed to her own
      mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione couldn't have explained <em class="calibre7">how</em> she'd done it, but
      it had worked. Her younger self, now in control again, shook her
      head slightly, then withdrew the copy of <em class="calibre7">Great Wizarding
      Events</em> and began scanning the table of contents, not acting as
      if she'd experienced anything bizarre and inexplicable. And
      Hermione herself no longer seemed to have a body of her own, she
      was simply watching through her past self's eyes, hearing through
      her ears, and - somewhat less distinctly - feeling the other normal
      operations of her body, even while her <em class="calibre7">mind</em> still reeled
      from the shocking pain of having attacked her own memories. Did
      that pain mean that this "now" <em class="calibre7">was</em> still causally linked
      to her own, and the pain was a flavor of backlash? But she'd acted
      to <em class="calibre7">preserve</em> her own episodic continuity...maybe it was
      just a sympathetic reaction, since they were somehow sharing the
      same brain...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time her parents and Professor McGonagall showed up to
      collect her and go buy her wand, her past self had purchased all
      the books she'd remembered purchasing this trip, and the adults had
      said the same things she remembered - or loosely, at any rate, her
      memory was not quite as good for speech as it was for written
      material, and it <em class="calibre7">had</em> been nearly a decade. But if she'd
      had lungs, she would've sighed in relief. Whatever was going on
      with <em class="calibre7">her</em>, History, at least, seemed to be safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least, it did for the seven minutes it took to walk to
      Ollivanders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione watched, with increasing concern, the not just
      different, but downright <em class="calibre7">bizarre</em> version of her first
      visit to Ollivanders. It was concerning, but not really
      <em class="calibre7">alarming</em>, until the enigmatic wandmaker appeared to come
      to a decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have little doubt you will learn...everything in Time, Miss
      Granger. But it will not have been now, nor from me," he intoned.
      <em class="calibre7">Merlin, he's going to Obliviate you! Protego, dodge, do</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">something</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">you little idiot!</em>
      Hermione tried to reverse the maneuver she'd pulled before, to take
      control, but she could gain no purchase. A bright flash issued from
      the tip of Ollivander's wand, and Hermione felt a thousand-thousand
      delicate threads of magic <em class="calibre7">slice</em> through her past self's
      mind, breaking connections, rending apart associations. Her past
      self didn't seem to feel it, but for her, it was as if she'd been
      dropped into an active lava flow, it was like being Crucio'd by
      Bellatrix all over again but with Greyback tearing her to pieces at
      the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She screamed, soundlessly. Waves of agony and alarm washed
      imperceptibly over her younger self's mind, nestling into the
      cracks in the banal replacement memories Ollivander's spell was
      painstakingly constructing. Hermione did not lose consciousness
      exactly...consciousness was all she <em class="calibre7">was</em>. But under the
      unrelenting assault, her thoughts grew thick and dull and dark, and
      it was equal parts horror and mercy, for she lost the pain in a
      dense, slow fog of confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time Hermione's mind regained coherence, weeks had
      apparently passed - she found herself lying in her bed at Hogwarts,
      staring up at the dark canopy over her bed. Something seemed a bit
      off about it, but her first priority was to take stock of both her
      own mind and her past self's. Thankfully, the younger mind, now
      sleeping, showed no sign of damage - as awful as it had been for
      Hermione, Ollivander had patched over his own work much more
      smoothly than the scar she had left from her own desperate efforts
      in Flourish and Blotts. Though there did seem to be strange ripples
      of her own experience woven distastefully through the former, like
      a few cat hairs sticking out of an otherwise delicious pudding. But
      even more relieving, there was no sign that the degeneration had
      affected her other self. It seemed, even in her insensate state,
      Hermione had retained her conviction not to draw upon her past
      self's life force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her own mind, however, was another matter. The cracks and gaps
      had spread throughout, and widened - and though she could sense
      them with the strange awareness she had in this state, through some
      self-referential flaw, she couldn't <em class="calibre7">interpret</em> them the way
      she had with her past self's memories. She knew that important
      parts of her were going, and she had no idea which. It ought to
      have terrified her, but it felt more irritating than anything else,
      and <em class="calibre7">that</em> frightened her a little bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With her younger self asleep, she did seem to have regained
      control of their shared body at the moment, and it occurred to her
      that if she couldn't fully rely on her own mind anymore, she ought
      to keep some kind of notes. Besides, note-taking always helped her
      think even under normal circumstances. If she gained control every
      time her younger self slept, and could keep the notes secure and
      hidden somehow - even from herself - maybe she could compile enough
      research to undo this whole mess, get back to her own time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Accordingly, she slipped out of bed quietly, so as not to
      disturb her roommates - Lavender in particular was a light sleeper
      - but her trunk was not where she expected it to be, and she had to
      bite her tongue to keep from crying out when she stubbed a toe. But
      apparently the small sound had been too much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be <em class="calibre7">quiet</em>," murmured an irritable voice, and Hermione
      winced as much for waking Lavender as for her smarting toe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry Lav," she whispered, feeling around for the trunk's
      unfamiliar position. But her reassurance apparently had the
      opposite of the intended effect, as she heard the soft sound of the
      girl sitting up in bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What</em> did ye call me?" came a whisper from the shadows.
      Hermione's heart juddered. Whatever parts of her mind might be
      missing, she was certain that Lavender did <em class="calibre7">not</em> have a
      Scottish accent. She leaned forward and twitched the curtains
      slightly to let a bit more of the dim moonlight into the room, and
      was additionally disoriented by how high the view seemed to be, and
      furthermore of the wrong side of the castle. But that was nothing
      compared to seeing the completely unfamiliar face glaring at her
      from the adjacent bed. Hermione desperately tried to bring her
      thoughts up to speed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...I meant sorry, I have to <em class="calibre7">use</em> the lav," she
      whispered. "I just stubbed my toe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bards will sing of your tragedy," the girl responded, scorn
      dripping from her own hissing whisper. "Next time, daen't
      apologize, just <em class="calibre7">be quiet</em>." With that, she flopped back
      down and pulled the blanket back up - also, somehow,
      scornfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, not wanting to risk further noise <em class="calibre7">or</em>
      conversation at the moment, quickly moved to the bathroom. And
      stood frozen in utter shock, for from the complete lack of lions in
      the fixtures, it was obvious that it was not a <em class="calibre7">Gryffindor</em>
      bathroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After some unknown period of quiet panic, Hermione tried to get
      a grip on herself. Step one was to orient herself. Looking at the
      fixtures closely, they were all eagles and ravens. So apparently,
      while she'd been "out", her past self had been <em class="calibre7">Sorted into
      Ravenclaw</em>. She had <em class="calibre7">seriously</em> changed Time. Hermione
      became a little dizzy and a bit nauseated, and felt the need to
      spend a while sitting on the bathroom floor with her arms around
      her knees, rocking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But even if it was hard to remember, in a
      not-quite-twelve-year-old body, feeling like this - in a bathroom,
      no less - and surrounded by paradox-laden <em class="calibre7">bird</em> fixtures,
      she eventually reminded herself that <em class="calibre7">she</em> was a Gryffindor,
      <em class="calibre7">she</em> was a confident adult woman, and fugues did
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> solve problems. So Hermione pulled herself together
      again, and came at it from a different direction. It had been
      weeks, at least, since Diagon Alley. Plenty of time for Butterfly
      Effects to become shocking and disorienting - instead, she withdrew
      into herself and reached for that strange sense of her younger
      self's mind again. She tried carefully paging through it, spending
      enough time to get as much detail as she could from each bit,
      noting each change from her recollections, compiling a new mental
      timeline. But she found it difficult to keep things straight, to
      stay focused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Notes, right. She was going to keep notes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione judged it had been long enough that whoever the
      Scottish girl was - not Cho Chang, she'd have recognized
      her...who'd been in Ravenclaw her year? Mac-something... Anyway,
      that she was hopefully solidly asleep again. So she ventured back
      into the bedroom proper, and with achingly slow, silent movements,
      managed to extract her wand, a quill and some paper from one of her
      trunks, then make her way back to the bathroom. She sat carefully
      on the side of a toilet seat - stall door closed and latched - lit
      her wand dimly, and began to take notes, though they came out a bit
      more stream-of-consciousness than she'd have liked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She filled a full page with everything she could remember about
      the Coeur-arbre, the Arithmantic diagrams, the man who'd attacked
      her and fled, and continued them on a second sheet. Hermione
      decided that, given the name, if anyone had better information than
      Hogwarts on Coeur-arbre, it would be Beauxbatons, though contacting
      them without making things worse could be problematic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next was compiling <em class="calibre7">changes</em>. Obviously there were the
      two wizards in Flourish and Blotts - she really should've gotten
      their names at the time, but there really wasn't much she could do
      there at this point. But the next thing was Ollivander's bizarre
      behaviour, and there wasn't enough <em class="calibre7">time</em> for what happened
      in the bookstore to have spread changes that far. Tracey had
      grabbed her just before it happened, what if she'd been pulled in
      too, but to an <em class="calibre7">earlier</em> time? But then she really ought to
      have noticed <em class="calibre7">more</em> changes, as soon as she arrived.
      Hermione considered contacting Ollivander, since he clearly knew
      something, but that had the same difficulties as Beauxbatons, and
      plus, he'd essentially assaulted an eleven-year-old. For all she
      knew, he had been under an Imperius, or had been Polyjuiced at the
      time or something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bit with Tonks...her younger self must have arrived at
      King's Cross slightly earlier, so that was easy enough to explain.
      But what had possessed her to <em class="calibre7">actually</em> make Pettigrew's
      fur yellow? Yes, she didn't <em class="calibre7">know</em> what he was, but
      still...that hadn't even <em class="calibre7">occurred</em> to her in her own
      version, even though she <em class="calibre7">had</em> seen the spell. Ah...she'd
      thought it was Tonks, Ron had mentioned his brothers, which must
      have reminded her of Tonks' conversation about pranking and her own
      disapproval of the same. Such a little thing... There must've been
      some earlier changes, but she couldn't find any obvious ones. And
      then after that… Hermione paged further into her younger self's
      memories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey was dead. <em class="calibre7">Madam Pomfrey</em> was
      <em class="calibre7">dead</em>. Because she'd been forced to examine Pettigrew,
      because he'd bitten Goyle while being <em class="calibre7">yellow</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because of her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cried for a while, until it felt like she might be crying
      more for herself than for Poppy, then wiped away the tears harshly
      and continued her analysis. Was there any point in turning
      Pettigrew in? He'd probably go back to hiding, and so many parts of
      History depended on him being where he'd been, doing what he'd
      done. But he hadn't killed anyone this early before, and Riddle is
      <em class="calibre7">here</em>...how will he react to that? What if they found each
      other <em class="calibre7">early</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione tried to concentrate, but felt herself inching closer
      to drawing upon her younger self's energy, and flinched away. She
      considered the possibility that she might not be able to survive in
      this state much longer - at least not and retain any thoughts
      recognizable as <em class="calibre7">her</em>. I've traveled far further back
      through Time than I ever did third year, and yet I somehow don't
      have <em class="calibre7">enough</em>. Even Dearest Ronald would laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She briefly considered just running to Dumbledore straightaway.
      There was nothing to be done about Poppy, but how much other death
      and horror could be avoided if Dumbledore knew <em class="calibre7">everything</em>,
      and <em class="calibre7">now</em> - or at least as much as she could access, the way
      her mind was? But for all she knew, Poppy was only the first
      backlash from her changes, inadvertent or otherwise - changing Time
      was <em class="calibre7">dangerous</em>. Yes, by abusing her Time-Turner they'd
      saved Buckbeak, and Sirius...if only temporarily - but it was pure
      luck that they'd had sufficient room to avoid contradictions that
      time and dodge around paradox. Here, paradox was stacking up rather
      fiercely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd compromise...record everything she remembered - it was
      only <em class="calibre7">right</em> that it be preserved - and think of some way
      that the information be revealed if things were <em class="calibre7">already</em>
      going further wrong than they had already, or than they had the
      first time? That way it ought to limit the repercussions-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned. The word she'd just written had vanished. She
      scribbled a little, tried again. Those marks vanished as well. She
      looked at the quill - it wasn't that the self-inking enchantment
      had run out, it was <em class="calibre7">making</em> marks, they just weren't
      <em class="calibre7">staying</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she tested further, she watched in mute horror as the rest of
      her notes faded away, leaving the paper fresh and clean.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A <em class="calibre7">Vanishing Ink</em> Quill? Why in Merlin's name had she
      bought a <em class="calibre7">joke</em> Quill?!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She slumped wearily, one of the now-blank pages slipping from
      limp fingers into the toilet bowl below her, and she stared at it
      dully. Was this some kind of cosmic metaphor? Everything she'd done
      with her life was going to be wiped away and be flushed down the
      <em class="calibre7">loo</em> for good measure?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione went ahead and flushed the useless page, then returned
      to her bed, finding the Scottish girl sitting up again, glaring.
      She didn't have the mental capacity to deal with this. She ought to
      Memory Charm her, she knew the spell well enough, but her body's
      muscle memory for the proper gestures wouldn't be present, plus
      there were her...issues...she might foul it up, the girl would
      naturally raise an alarm...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," she whispered, instead. "Please don't tell anyone?" The
      girl just stared, and stared, <em class="calibre7">just</em> long enough for
      Hermione to actually recall the last thing she'd said to her, and
      cringe at the fact that in her inattention she'd done the opposite
      of what the Scottish girl had asked. The girl then only nodded
      curtly, her lips twisting, and lay down again. Hermione, feeling
      very much not herself, quietly put her things away, then got back
      into bed and waited for morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wondered if it was a problem that in her current state -
      though she felt terribly weary - she didn't seem to have any
      capacity for sleep at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next day was troubling, and the <em class="calibre7">least</em> of it was the
      constant low-level <em class="calibre7">wrongness</em> of her being a Ravenclaw. She
      was shocked to find herself visiting the Hogwarts Elves in the
      kitchens, treating them respectfully but not making a fuss - how
      had her younger self managed to come to terms with it, ethically?
      Hermione tried to recall what had gone through her own mind when
      she first discovered that Hogwarts kept house Elves, but the memory
      was disconcertingly fuzzy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The conversation with the Weasley Twins at least cleared up most
      of the mystery of the quill and her notes, though something about
      it seemed not quite right, something important, but it was so
      <em class="calibre7">hard</em> to think when her younger self was awake, she just
      couldn't put her finger on it. Maybe it was that she'd
      <em class="calibre7">kept</em> the quill afterward?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cringed at her brief misplaced sympathy about Scabbers'
      supposed death - or maybe it wasn't misplaced, since it was
      technically sympathy for <em class="calibre7">Ronald</em>, but either way it felt
      odd. But the thing with Lavender in Charms seemed <em class="calibre7">highly</em>
      suspicious. Pettigrew, in his Animagus form, clearly had some way
      of getting into and out of Gryffindor Tower - and perhaps the
      enchantments on the girl's dormitories only applied to male
      <em class="calibre7">humans</em>, in which case he could've stolen Lavender's wand,
      so anything he did to cover up Poppy's murder wouldn't show up on a
      <em class="calibre7">Priori Incantato</em> on her wand. That did leave open the
      question of what he <em class="calibre7">had</em> done, though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Defence class definitely raised some concern, as Quirrell was
      obviously distracted in a way that suggested he was thinking about
      the murder. Not that <em class="calibre7">him</em> thinking about it was the
      <em class="calibre7">real</em> problem, but it was a symptom, since presumably
      Riddle was thinking about it as well. She wondered how the
      Slytherins would react if they knew they were effectively making
      sport of <em class="calibre7">Voldemort</em>. Riddle himself probably wouldn't
      actually mind, since they were targeting Quirrell - about whom he
      presumably cared very little - and they were only reinforcing
      Quirrell's oh-so-Slytherin deception about being harmless and
      beneath suspicion. But the first-years would probably wet
      themselves, and this thought took a bit of the edge off her very
      real concern about Riddle gaining some advantage as a result of her
      changes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then there was Transfiguration. Hermione hadn't made quite so
      <em class="calibre7">comprehensive</em> notes in her own first class, and while her
      first effort had reached the same endpoint, it hadn't been nearly
      as fast or dramatic. She had no idea that drilling down so far on
      contrast and conformation could have that kind of effect on speed,
      and felt a peculiar jealousy towards her younger self. Not that she
      seemed likely to have a particularly easy time of it, with all the
      obvious complications involved in the secrecy imposed by Professor
      McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">History of Magic was about as dull as she remembered it, though
      the house pairing was different, and there was - based on where she
      directed her gaze - her younger self's peculiar fixation on
      Slytherins. Yes, the Sorting wasn't exactly <em class="calibre7">fair</em>, but
      experience showed it was essentially <em class="calibre7">accurate</em>. But
      seemingly having more sympathy for <em class="calibre7">them</em> and less for the
      widely oppressed Elves gave Hermione some pause about the girl's
      moral judgement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The conversation with Professor McGonagall was curious. For one,
      that it had never occurred to Hermione that the student in
      Minerva's class introduction might have tried to Transfigure
      <em class="calibre7">radioactive</em> material. It wasn't that she'd discounted the
      theory because it would've been a terribly reckless thing to do -
      which was true - she simply hadn't thought of it. Instead, she'd
      just accepted the Professor's lesson that Transfiguration was
      dangerous and she needed to follow the rules at all times, and
      given it no further attention. And then there was the very
      <em class="calibre7">obvious</em> realization - at least in retrospect - that
      Minerva must have had her own Time-Turner. Since Dumbledore had his
      own enigmatic responsibilities outside the school, he passed a
      significant amount of day-to-day responsibilities to her, and
      unlike him, she had Transfiguration to teach as well. It made her
      respect McGonagall even more, given all that had happened over the
      years, the difference a few extra hours of preparation might have
      made in so many situations, that she'd <em class="calibre7">resisted</em> the
      temptation to fiddle with Time. Or maybe, like Hermione, her
      respect for rules - at least, sensible ones - was so strong that
      intervening simply hadn't occurred to her without someone else to
      urge her, as Dumbledore had for Hermione? But then why hadn't he
      ever prompted Minerva similarly? Or maybe he had, and things would
      have been <em class="calibre7">even worse</em> otherwise…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd taken care to note how all Y.H.'s things were arranged
      this morning, so when the girl finally went to sleep, Hermione was
      able to navigate more confidently in the dark without disturbing
      anyone. Enough to gather clothes, wand, Self-Inking quill (a proper
      one this time), and paper. She decided to wait to change out of her
      nightgown until she was half a turn down the stairs, though. There
      was no sense in tempting fate with Morag again, who seemed to be
      holding a serious grudge about having her sleep disturbed, but
      thankfully she hadn't specifically mentioned it to her younger
      self.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she'd dressed, Hermione considered Disillusioning herself,
      but Disillusionment wasn't perfect, and if she was caught anyway,
      it would be much harder to explain having cast it as a first-year.
      Instead, she settled for charming her clothes to a uniform grey
      that fairly matched the castle's stone, then Silencing herself. She
      even, for a moment, considered trying to use a Summoning Charm to
      borrow the Marauder's Map, but even supposing there was an open
      path via which it could make its way to her, the risk that the
      Twins would see or hear it leave seemed too great. For all she
      knew, they were using it this very moment, roaming the castle after
      curfew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That thought gave her pause. If they <em class="calibre7">were</em> using it,
      they'd be alert for anyone moving around the corridors, and it was
      impossible to predict how they'd react to seeing her name. At least
      it'd be her name either way, and <em class="calibre7">that</em> complication had
      been avoided - though the Twins seemed not terribly observant in
      that regard, or they'd have noticed Pettigrew or Riddle this year
      (presuming the latter showed up somehow superimposed with Quirrell,
      at any rate). But if they did, and decided to track her down,
      discovering her sneaking about Silenced, in charmed camouflage,
      like some sort of ninja witch, would be an awful tangle. Maybe she
      should've just left her nightgown on, allowing her to more easily
      claim sleepwalking, or something? In the end, she shrugged off
      these concerns. She was fairly certain that even in Y.H.'s body,
      she could subdue Filch and Mrs. Norris <em class="calibre7">or</em> the Twins, and
      Memory Charm them as necessary - with no one else around, she'd
      have enough time to do it slowly and carefully. On the other hand,
      if she encountered <em class="calibre7">Snape</em>...well, she'd cross that bridge
      when she came to it, and in the meantime just avoid going near his
      office or the forbidden third floor corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately enough, she encountered no difficulty getting out of
      Ravenclaw Tower and making her way to the Library, despite the
      unfamiliarity of the route - in contrast to the path from the
      Gryffindor common room to the Library, which she knew better than
      the house she'd grown up in. The Library wasn't even locked, which
      Hermione found surprising given Madam Pince's predilections. Maybe
      it simply didn't occur to her anyone would dare intrude off
      hours?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite the eerie gloom, Hermione took a moment just to revel in
      the comforting familiarity, running her fingers along the shelves.
      Two years at the DRCMC...she'd thrown herself into her work, but
      lost her sense of identity. <em class="calibre7">This</em> was what was
      important...thousands of years of recorded knowledge, perfect and
      immutable. She could just climb onto one of the shelves and be
      content, secure. Madam Pince would never let anyone change
      <em class="calibre7">her</em> history, scribbling out what was <em class="calibre7">meant</em> to be
      written on her pages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On her pages?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head foggily and reminded herself what she
      was there for...researching what had started this whole mess, and
      making a hidden copy of what she knew about <em class="calibre7">her</em> future,
      so...so...no matter what, it wouldn't be lost? Yes, that was it.
      She began to thread the stacks more purposely, pulling volumes on
      uncommon magical plants, Fundamental Magics, and certain Arithmancy
      texts.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
