<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 22: Interlude - Tempus Torqueri (2 of 2), a harry potter...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17.2: Interlude - Tempus Torqueri (2 of 2)</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">It was growing ever harder to stay focused while Young Hermione
      was awake, events were passing in a kind of blur. But Hermione
      found a bit of unwelcome clarity when, in the midst of her
      counterpart doing some library research, the second page of her
      Vanished notes <em class="calibre7">un-</em>Vanished before her eyes, line-by-line.
      She dearly wished she'd dropped <em class="calibre7">both</em> pages into the toilet
      that night, but she'd had no reason to think her notes were ever
      coming back, and had simply replaced the paper into her younger
      self's stores. And despite the vague obfuscation she'd used in her
      notes, Hermione was quite agitated by her younger self's perusal of
      the forbidden references to future events. She was even more
      concerned that her vague sense of her body suggested Y.H. was
      <em class="calibre7">also</em> agitated, not just confused, but <em class="calibre7">afraid</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Based on her gaze, she seemed to be focusing on the paragraph
      about Olivander...Merlin, who knew what trouble she'd get into if
      she raised a ruckus about being Obliviated. But obviously she
      couldn't <em class="calibre7">remember</em> being Obliviated, so hopefully it would
      just be a curiosity rather than-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At once, Hermione startled as she found herself in control, for
      the moment in full possession of both her body and her faculties.
      She reached inward for her younger self's mind and recoiled in
      horror - those echoes of her suffering during the Obliviation,
      caught in the matrix of false memories, had left threads hanging
      <em class="calibre7">inward</em> as <em class="calibre7">well</em> as outward. Her counterpart had
      "pulled" on them somehow, causing them not to unravel, exactly, but
      to lay new memories down of the same period - <em class="calibre7">her</em>
      memories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wasn't sure what to do...if she just tried to rip them out
      as she had in the bookstore, she wasn't sure her mind - or whatever
      she was now - would survive the attempt. Nor was she sure it
      wouldn't damage her younger self. She could try using a Memory
      Charm on "herself" tonight, but that too was a gamble - would the
      spell discriminate between the two minds present, assuming she
      could even finish it if it hurt her the same way Ollivander's
      had?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before she could come up with something productive to do, she
      found herself unceremoniously ejected from control as her younger
      self recoiled from the memory, flooding her system with adrenaline
      and half-leaping, half-falling out of her chair before the girl
      managed to separate memory and reality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She calmed herself down quickly enough, and then appeared to
      draw a reasonable but mostly wrong conclusion - that Hermione was a
      ghost, possessing her - and delivered a stern little speech to that
      effect. Was there some way she could take advantage of that
      misconception? But she wasn't even sure if she could focus enough
      to contact the girl's mind directly, for communication, while she
      was awake. Still, she didn't have a better option - she couldn't
      let her <em class="calibre7">ask</em> an adult about the notes, which would surely
      come up sooner rather than later - and began to try to struggle
      through the molasses that clogged her mind while her past self was
      awake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hadn't made much headway when the girl apparently lost
      patience and skipped directly to the step Hermione dreaded. She
      flailed in a bodiless panic, then froze, surprised, when the girl
      apparently <em class="calibre7">noticed</em>. She tried to follow the subsequent
      suggestion of producing a "happy" sensation, but she wasn't sure
      how she'd managed to convey fear in the first place, and once again
      the girl lost patience well before Hermione had any chance to make
      headway, a trait which was beginning to become maddening. The girl
      repeated her intention to talk to someone else, and again, Hermione
      thrashed as best she could against her mind, focusing on how
      <em class="calibre7">bad</em> an idea that was, that she should really just wait and
      think and give her a <em class="calibre7">chance</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But her younger self was irritatingly stubborn, and was making
      her way out of the Library, even as her heart raced and her face
      was creased with worry. Hermione just couldn't compete under these
      circumstances, she needed her younger self to be <em class="calibre7">asleep</em>,
      but even in her own body she couldn't accomplish wandless magic -
      hoping to pull it off while half-inhabiting her first-year self
      wasn't much better than just wishing her to sleep. But sleep was a
      natural function of the body...even if she didn't have direct
      access to her physiological functions, could she <em class="calibre7">evoke</em>
      it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione desperately reached for her younger self's mind, not to
      tear, but to pull a memory to the top. She couldn't be sure, but
      the girl had wobbled in her step and leaned against a bookshelf for
      a moment...Hermione tried again, harder. This time she was sure
      she'd made progress, she could vaguely <em class="calibre7">feel</em> the lethargy
      flooding her body, and her younger self complained, not yet seeing
      the gambit for what it was. Hermione reached for a deep, deep
      memory and thrust it to the fore, trying to <em class="calibre7">will</em> the girl
      into slumber. She slumped down onto the floor, barely awake,
      reaching into her bag for her wand. But before she had it, she
      closed her eyes and it was just enough for Hermione to push the the
      other mind underneath and take control.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As her own mind began to clear up, she could tell this was an
      artificial sleep, and wouldn't last long...even less if she exerted
      herself or became too excited. Hermione carefully stood up and left
      the Library, considering her options. First priority was getting
      rid of her notes. Once she was alone in the hallway, she withdrew
      the offending page from her bag, along with an unused sheet, and
      her wand. She copied her younger self's notes over to the blank
      sheet by hand, then summarily Vanished the original page - now
      nothing she tried doing to the copy would ever restore what
      Hermione had written, and no spell she knew of would be able to
      reveal anything unusual about the new copy - it had had no magic
      used on it, and had been written by Hermione Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That handled, how was she going to prevent the girl from talking
      to anyone about it, <em class="calibre7">without</em> trying to meddle with her
      memories? She might just write herself a note
      <em class="calibre7">deliberately</em>, but starting a pen-pal conversation in her
      current condition felt far too close to Ginny's ordeal for her to
      be comfortable, and she couldn't count on being able to force her
      into sleep - she suspected the girl would be on guard for that now.
      Besides, she needed to limit her interaction with her past self as
      much as she possibly could. But thinking of the year of the
      Chamber, and how so many people had refused to believe Harry about
      not being the Heir of Slytherin, even on the basis of the flimsiest
      evidence… If she couldn't keep herself from talking to
      people...maybe she could keep herself from being
      <em class="calibre7">believed</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could already feel her younger self stirring, so she made
      her way to the Hospital Wing as fast as she dared without risking
      adrenaline waking her even sooner. She was rather unsteady by the
      time she made it there, but that was fine, it would only make her
      story more convincing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My word, you don't look very well, what's the trouble?" asked
      Madam Wainscott solicitously, moving over to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure," said Hermione, her voice deliberately fuzzy. "I
      was in the Library, someone cast a spell at me from behind...think
      it went '<em class="calibre7">Confundo Oraculum Maximo'</em>? My head feels
      peculiar, but I don't know what else...ohhh." Hermione didn't have
      to fake a swoon, she just let her mind drop beneath again, and her
      body folded to the floor like its strings had been cut. The nurse
      made a grab for her, but didn't quite make it in time. Looking
      worried, she pulled her wand and used an advanced levitation spell
      to get her into a bed, and by that time Hermione's counterpart had
      awakened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed her plan had worked - sort of - as Wainscott was
      indeed waving away everything that her younger self tried to
      explain. But <em class="calibre7">what</em> she was saying was alarming in the
      <em class="calibre7">extreme</em>. This wasn't information she'd deduced from the
      notes, she was acting as if she'd <em class="calibre7">seen</em> things in
      Hermione's own memory! And not just recovering what she'd lost from
      Ollivander's Memory Charm, but actual events from the
      <em class="calibre7">future</em>. This was a <em class="calibre7">disaster</em>...had Hermione opened
      some channel between them when forcing her younger self's
      memories...did that even make sense? It was so hard to tell, so
      hard to <em class="calibre7">think…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She noticed herself hurriedly taking notes while changing into
      pyjamas, notes which <em class="calibre7">definitely</em> contained memories of the
      future. Some of the worst parts of the future, apparently. Why had
      she seen those memories in particular? It was as if someone was
      <em class="calibre7">trying</em> to get her to change Time even as Hermione
      desperately tried to minimize the damage. But there was no sign of
      a <em class="calibre7">third</em> mind in there with them...none of it made sense.
      She tried to wrest back control, and managed to make the
      handwriting a bit sloppier when the girl switched to her left hand,
      but that was it. When she'd finished writing, her younger self
      charmed each page of the notes waterproof, then folded them up into
      a little bundle. She paused for a moment, and her chest felt tight,
      but then she took a breath and cast one final spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Echo Moratus</em>," she whispered, "Hello, hello, hello. If
      anyone can hear this, please pick this up and read it carefully."
      After two more repetitions of the message, without hesitation, she
      flung the packet of papers out the open window above her bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even as Hermione began to panic in earnest, the girl called to
      Madam Wainscott, and then, quietly, <em class="calibre7">taunted</em> her. For a
      moment, stuck between horror and infuriated frustration, she
      reconsidered her commitment to her younger self's welfare, but she
      knew she could be just as tenacious in the face of apparent
      oppression, and ethically she was on very shaky ground as it
      was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the girl took the nurse's offered Potion of Dreamless
      Sleep, and Hermione didn't even have a chance to hope she might be
      able to sneak out and fetch the packet before the potion's effect
      hit each of their minds like an elephant tranquilizer (or an actual
      elephant, in Hermione's case), and all was quiet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was slower to recover than her younger self, and by the
      time she found herself coherent again, the girl was in the
      library...researching <em class="calibre7">Time</em>. Apparently the memories she'd
      somehow gained, or Hermione's cryptic notes, or some combination
      thereof had been enough to break the Conditional Obscuration for
      her, two full years earlier than it should have been (via a meeting
      with Professor McGonagall and an official Ministry Pamphlet).
      Hermione was beginning to despair on the topic of somehow "fixing"
      the increasing number of aberrations to History, particularly since
      the degeneration of her own mind was proceeding so rapidly. Her
      only real hope was that if she could get Y.H. to try to minimize
      further changes, Time would eventually assert itself and get things
      back on track somehow of its own accord. The fact that this was a
      painfully optimistic view didn't fully register with her, and
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> fact would've alarmed her a great deal - had she been
      aware of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One bright spot was that - if her body language was any
      indication - her younger self was taking the situation even more
      seriously now. Though that still left open the problem of
      communicating with herself effectively. Maybe a very careful note
      explaining things and she could convince her younger self of the
      need to preserve as much of History as they could, at all
      costs?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the changes continued to pile up, as Quirrel changed his
      lesson plans. Her younger self continued indulging her unhealthy
      fascination with Slytherins, but even more worrisome was Tracey.
      Even considering her counterpart's tutelage, the apparent jump in
      the girl's spellcasting skill seemed rather abrupt. What if she
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> come back, and had just taken over her younger self's
      life entirely? Again, that didn't quite seem to fit with what she'd
      observed, but it was an unsettling possibility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her concerns about Tracey Davis evaporated, however, as Theodore
      Nott accosted her counterpart with his eager designs on
      blackmailing her. Yet another disaster, though better than it
      might've been, since at least it gave him incentive to keep the
      notes to himself at least for a while. But through his little
      speech on pureblood manifest destiny, she found herself getting
      angrier and angrier. She tried to remember if anything horrible
      would happen to him in the future, and when she couldn't, she
      imagined a few things deliberately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But rather than sating her loathing of the boy, the daydreams
      only seemed to firm her desire to <em class="calibre7">do</em> something. And sure
      enough, though she wasn't sure how it was happening - it didn't
      <em class="calibre7">feel</em> like she had control - her younger self had pulled
      her wand out, and was beginning a Memory Charm, which she shouldn't
      even <em class="calibre7">know</em>, but must have picked up from her own memories.
      But before she managed to complete the spell, her breath grew
      ragged and she dropped the wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nott just smiled like this was one more point in favor of
      pureblood supremacy, and her younger self retrieved her wand with
      shaking hands, while Hermione herself tried, unsuccessfully, to
      understand what had just happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stayed buried in her frustratingly clumsy introspection all
      through Transfiguration and most of Potions. When her counterpart
      confessed to Padma about the blackmail, she grew concerned, but
      Y.H. did seem careful to keep the details to herself. If she'd been
      thinking faster, she could've predicted Snape coming down on them
      like an avenging anvil, not that it would've made a difference if
      she had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But in the face of his tirade, and her younger self's
      embarrassingly fragile reaction to being dressed down by a
      Professor, she noticed a tiny tendril in their shared brain, a
      subtle thread of thought that didn't belong. It gently rippled
      across her counterpart's mind, channeling echoes of surface
      thoughts off into a small "chamber" where they could be viewed
      unobserved by her consciousness. Hermione was so staggered by the
      sheer skill of it that it took a moment for the implications to
      break through her own muddled thoughts, at which point she reacted
      instinctively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hoping to prevent Snape from gaining who-knew-what future
      knowledge far earlier than he was supposed to, she "grabbed" the
      thread and wrenched it off of her younger self's mind. It recoiled
      like a living thing and whipped away out of her "view" at the same
      moment Snape took a sudden step backwards, removing any doubt as to
      the source of the intrusion. But aside from that, he gave no
      indication anything had happened at all, which left a great
      <em class="calibre7">deal</em> of doubt as to how much, if anything, he'd seen that
      he shouldn't have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was still worrying about it when her counterpart went to the
      hospital wing to see the nurse - apparently she'd somehow wheedled
      Liquid Sheep out of her for Merlin knew what purpose, probably when
      Hermione was still indisposed from the Dreamless Sleep potion - and
      awkwardly comforted the young woman in her grief. It became even
      more awkward when her younger self, apparently in deep thought
      while Madam Wainscott filled out dosing instructions, began
      muttering to herself, loudly enough that the nurse caught a bit
      about suspecting a <em class="calibre7">student</em> had murdered Madam Pomfrey.
      Which was wrong, of course, but fortunately the nurse quickly took
      the excuse of the Seer's Hex over actually evaluating the notion,
      which was probably better for everyone concerned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The memorial service was difficult. Merlin knew she'd had to
      deal with death, but she'd never felt <em class="calibre7">responsible</em> before.
      Even if <em class="calibre7">she</em> hadn't really done anything herself, and it
      hadn't been <em class="calibre7">avoidable</em> as far as she-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except...it <em class="calibre7">had</em> been avoidable. Policy. She knew what
      she was supposed to do, and she'd ignored it because a
      <em class="calibre7">Jarvey</em> insulted her, and because she was a
      <em class="calibre7">Gryffindor</em>. There was a place for being brave, and doing
      what was right, but the price of that came when you didn't
      <em class="calibre7">know</em> what was right, and chose poorly. Dumbledore was
      talking about perseverance in the face of hopeless odds, and
      fighting to make the world better. But he never talked about the
      price, nor had Hermione ever really had to pay that price
      before...the closest she'd come had been her parents, but that had
      thankfully been remedied afterward. But Harry had paid that price,
      and he'd lost Sirius because of it. Now she'd gotten someone killed
      too, and as much as it had been for what seemed like good reasons,
      it had also been out of <em class="calibre7">pride</em>. No matter how much the
      Gryfifndor in her felt like she <em class="calibre7">should</em> hang Pettigrew out
      to dry, with Time in the mix, the stakes were too high...making an
      additional mistake out of guilt wouldn't help the situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt tears on her cheeks. They weren't hers, but they suited
      anyway, for Poppy's loss, and for her own. She'd been through a
      war, she'd fallen in love, she'd used an Unforgivable Curse, and
      yet somehow she'd hadn't truly lost her innocence until now. But
      maybe that was the lesson? Sometimes you had to <em class="calibre7">not</em> be the
      hero, and do the smart thing instead, the thing that didn't
      <em class="calibre7">feel</em> right, but caused the least harm to History? Because
      in the end, wasn't History what was <em class="calibre7">really</em> important?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something about that last thought didn't seem quite right, but
      she couldn't put her finger on why. Hermione let it go for the
      moment. She was just so <em class="calibre7">tired</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't until her younger self began writing what was clearly
      a letter to Hermione that she realized what the purpose of
      obtaining Liquid Sheep had been - the girl was going to try to
      deliberately put herself to sleep for a short period, to allow them
      to exchange messages. The plan showed an encouraging level of
      trust, but that was largely spoiled by the adversarial language she
      used in the actual letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the potion took hold and Hermione slipped back into
      control, she wrote out the reply that she'd already been
      half-composing as she'd watched herself write the original message.
      Though she noted with some concern that her thoughts still weren't
      quite up to speed. Possibly that was a side-effect of this being an
      artificial sleep, but it could also be that the degeneration of her
      "condition" was becoming critical. But there wasn't much she could
      do about it. She set about bringing her counterpart around to her
      way of thinking, without revealing anything she hadn't already
      learned. Legilimency was an exception, but it wasn't secret per se
      and she thought the danger of Snape, Dumbledore or Quirrell/Riddle
      picking up something justified her learning about it earlier, as
      well as Occlumency - as far as she knew, no one had ever used
      Legilimency to any effect on her, so learning Occlumency shouldn't
      cause additional changes. And she tossed in the bit about the
      scientific paper on general principle - she had looked it up after
      receiving the Time-Turner, but she'd only vaguely followed it.
      Enough to be encouraged that it supported the pamphlet's
      assertions, but not enough to want to research it any further.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The potion didn't last long enough for her to fully explain her
      position, and required another dose (after her younger self added a
      slightly snippy note). She really had no idea how to deal with
      Nott, so just urged conservative caution and then went on with the
      rest. Which was a bit scattered, if she was honest with herself,
      but people really <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> understand Time, and Erasure (as
      opposed to a wholesale altering of the timeline) <em class="calibre7">had</em> never
      made logical sense to her. But the sheer chaos, the fact that
      History wouldn't <em class="calibre7">matter</em>...the world didn't look like that,
      it <em class="calibre7">shouldn't</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But her arguments didn't seem to be swaying herself. Plus, she
      brought up the uncomfortable questions of how this had happened in
      the first place, plus Tracey Davis, who Hermione <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      needed to take a hard look at, but just hadn't had time yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just refused to explain, trying to talk around it as
      discouragingly as possible without giving details. She wasn't sure
      how much hope she had of that being effective, but even if it only
      <em class="calibre7">delayed</em> her from learning things that would put History in
      even <em class="calibre7">more</em> danger, that was better than nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the matter of Tracey, she just flat-out lied. She'd think of
      <em class="calibre7">something</em> before morning, maybe just Memory Charm her to
      forget everything that took place after today, that ought to be
      safe enough even if she <em class="calibre7">had</em> usurped her own existence? And
      even if she was a Slytherin, Hermione did remembered her ever
      showing any significant level of sneakiness, so with luck she
      hadn't made any written notes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was already clear from her younger self's movements that she
      did <em class="calibre7">not</em> take it well, and her response was surprisingly
      bitter. Yes, she supposed the Sorting of Slytherins might not be
      entirely fair, but it wasn't as if there weren't children who were
      already a danger to others at that age - at least having them
      marked out and separated gave other kids a better chance to avoid
      them. If there were Slytherins in that house who didn't deserve to
      be there, why weren't they making it better?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The self-righteous bit was just bratty. She understood the
      sentiment, but it was hard to understand how she hadn't seen back
      then how she <em class="calibre7">sounded</em> sometimes, and how that affected
      other people's reactions to her. Hermione didn't rise to the bait
      of debating that point, just showed how an <em class="calibre7">actual</em> adult
      dealt with genuinely petulant behaviour - however much she claimed
      otherwise - and addressed the real issues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She even allowed herself to imply a <em class="calibre7">little</em> bit of
      future knowledge that Y.H. didn't already have, namely that if
      History was allowed to reassert itself, the war against Voldemort
      would end, on balance, successfully. It seemed worth it to stress
      the danger of <em class="calibre7">anything</em> which might steer things further
      from that known good state, History as it <em class="calibre7">should</em> be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paused in thought. Despite her efforts, it didn't seem
      like she was getting through to herself, and she couldn't predict
      what her younger self might do. Suppose, despite the dangers of
      long-term use, she managed to secure a supply of Dreamless Sleep
      potion out of spite, or even steal one tonight? Hermione might have
      no more time to do anything at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She ended her response with some half-truths, and hoped they
      would make her counterpart believe actively adversarial measures
      weren't necessary. Though the way she was feeling lately, she
      worried that might be accurate regardless, and sooner rather than
      later. Not that she wasn't prepared to die for what was important -
      assuming what she was now was really "alive", at any rate - she
      certainly was. But she wasn't looking <em class="calibre7">forward</em> to it, and
      she'd always been able to come up with <em class="calibre7">something</em> to stave
      off disaster. Even when she'd Gryffindor'd off to find the basilisk
      alone she'd managed to avoid death, and her notes had allowed the
      others to come through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her younger self seemed less angry and more despairing
      afterward, and for a moment Hermione worried she'd put too much on
      the girl's shoulders. But if this was what it took to defend what
      was left of History, it was worth it. It was worth
      <em class="calibre7">anything</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After crying for a while, her counterpart destroyed their mutual
      notes (good girl!) and went to bed. Hermione waited quite some time
      - though her younger self hadn't appeared to notice, it seemed
      clear from Morag's breathing that she was <em class="calibre7">not</em> asleep when
      they'd returned from the bathroom. But after a good half hour or
      so, her younger self had finally dropped off after her relaxation
      routine, and the scottish girl's breathing sounded regular enough
      that it seemed safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once more, Hermione silently gathered what she'd need for a
      midnight outing, charmed her clothes dark, and slipped out of
      Ravenclaw Tower, thankful that the knocker didn't seem to react to
      much other than being knocked. She made her way to the Library and
      put the finishing touches on her backup, worst-case-scenario notes,
      which took several hours and some touchy wand-work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That done, she headed towards the bowels of the castle to handle
      the other matter. Again, she wished she had the Marauder's Map, or
      that she had been more careful preparing for that otherwise
      pointless Polyjuice expedition to the Slytherin common room and
      thus been able to <em class="calibre7">go</em>. Nevertheless, she was able to make
      her way to the Dungeon entrance based on pieced-together bits of
      overheard conversation and occasional glimpses of the Marauder's
      Map, plus her walks to and from the Potions classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arriving at what she <em class="calibre7">thought</em> was the proper segment of
      featureless stone wall, she cast a Supersensory Charm on herself to
      boost her hearing as much as she dared and pressed her ear to the
      cold stone. She moved up and down it a foot at a time until she
      managed to hear the faint crackle of a fireplace. Still she waited,
      for a good ten minutes, but there was no other sound, not even
      whispered conversation or the rustle of turned pages as someone
      read quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That solved one problem, but there was still the question of the
      password. From what Harry and Ron had said, the Slytherins
      apparently changed it often - just as likely from paranoia as from
      any awareness that they were not well-liked. She could just guess
      some of the likely suspects - names of snakes, pureblood political
      slogans and such - but she wouldn't be surprised if the Slytherin
      entrance limited such guessing in a nasty way. Likewise for an
      Unlocking Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, the common room entrances were not <em class="calibre7">serious</em>
      security in this time, as Sirius had not yet given anyone the
      motivation to bolster them. Hermione leveled her wand, wove a
      complicated tangle with the tip that ended in an inverted question
      mark, and put all the strength she could into a Confundus Charm
      against what she hoped was the concealed door, the effort leaving
      her a bit dizzy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened, but this was not surprising.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Password," she whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door agreeably swung open, and she crept inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd never actually been in the Slytherin Dungeon, and took a
      moment to look around. Where the other common rooms were
      comfortable, homey, this one reeked of pride and privilege. It
      reminded her of Malfoy manor, though it was of course darker,
      somewhat more green, and - hopefully, at least - less inhabited by
      sociopaths than her brief visit there had revealed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, her shoes and clothes individually Silenced, moved
      like a dark ghost through the long room, peering at the doors for
      some hint as to who slept behind them. They might arrange it by
      year, with the oldest students getting the best-appointed rooms,
      but Hermione suspected it was instead decided by <em class="calibre7">family</em>
      status. Sure enough, when she examined the frames closely, there
      were tiny family crests carved into each. In due course, she found
      the frame that bore the Davis family crest, a sadly unadorned
      little bit of heraldry which suggested the Davises were about as
      far from Noble as you could get without being muggles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She laid a wordless Silencing Charm on the door, and a
      <em class="calibre7">Specialis Revelio</em> in case they were <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      paranoid, but the lack of result (aside from her own Silencing
      Charm) suggested the occupants of <em class="calibre7">this</em> room, at least,
      were not. Hermione slowly pushed it open, thinking somewhat
      wistfully of Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder. But the subterranean
      room was already quite dark, only a very faint green glow outlining
      vague shapes within and the positions of the doorways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Feeling very out of her element, Hermione crept carefully to
      each bed, peering at the face of each occupant as well as she could
      in the dim light, until she located the sleeping form of Tracey
      Davis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, she hesitated. She was <em class="calibre7">hoping</em> that her
      own strange sense of her own shared minds would extend to her use
      of a Memory Charm, allowing her to target both the original and the
      interloper - if indeed both Tracey's mind <em class="calibre7">had</em> traveled
      back, and <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> already pushed her younger self out
      completely. But she had no evidence that would be the case. And
      given her own experience of her counterpart being Memory Charmed,
      what would happen if hypothetical future-Tracey started screaming
      bloody murder?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was feeling seriously fatigued from all the
      spellcasting on top of everything else, but she put another
      wordless Silencing Charm on Tracey, as well as a Full Body-Bind.
      Only then did she begin the Memory Charm, locking each conceptual
      layer into the spell with the proper gestures, broadly specifying
      knowledge of <em class="calibre7">relative</em> future events - even if they had
      been learned earlier than tonight. Then, realizing the problem with
      that, she hastily wove in exceptions for normally anticipated
      things like class schedules, appointments, holidays, family
      birthdays. Before the final gesture that would seal the spell, she
      hesitated again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Tracey from the future <em class="calibre7">had</em> come back, she was in a
      sense as much a preservation of proper History as Hermione herself
      was. Was her younger self right, was this going too far? But after
      a moment of indecision, her determination firmed. The risk of
      Tracey changing things, inadvertently or otherwise, was much worse
      than her value as a "backup". Besides, a properly cast Memory Charm
      didn't <em class="calibre7">destroy</em> information, it only suppressed it, locked
      it away where it couldn't be accessed. <em class="calibre7">Technically,</em> the
      record of History should be even <em class="calibre7">safer</em> this way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Obliviate</em>, she willed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no apparent reaction from the sleeping girl, but the
      FBB wouldn't have allowed one, so she waited a couple minutes, then
      carefully <em class="calibre7">Finite</em>'d the curse without lifting the Silencing
      Charm. Tracey stirred slightly, perhaps relieving residual
      stiffness, but otherwise seemed undisturbed. Hermione lifted the
      remaining charm, then reversed her path through the Dungeon,
      undoing her charms on the doors as she retreated through them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she was safely out, she would've sighed in relief, but she
      frankly hadn't had the energy to be nervous, and trudged back
      towards the stairs up. She'd barely gone a dozen paces before her
      progress was interrupted by a quiet voice behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there...some way I can <em class="calibre7">assist</em> you?" intoned Severus
      Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was entirely due to her extreme fatigue that, rather than
      leaping into the air with a shriek of shock, she merely turned
      around to face him resignedly, her expression empty. She'd
      considered the <em class="calibre7">possibility</em> of running into Snape during
      one of these nocturnal expeditions, but she'd never really come up
      with any plan per se for dealing with it, and realized she'd just
      sort of been <em class="calibre7">assuming</em> it wouldn't come up, because she was
      trying to <em class="calibre7">preserve</em> History, and such a thing of course
      <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> happened. She also realized there was a problem
      with this "logic", but frustratingly, even with the evidence
      literally staring her in the face, she couldn't tell what it was.
      In any case, even as she stared back at him, trying to cudgel her
      exhausted mind for a solution to <em class="calibre7">this</em> problem, Hermione
      again felt that tiny tendril of thought slide between her shared
      minds and begin casting about for something to latch onto.
      Instinctively, she slapped it away, and it recoiled from her
      awareness. The dour Potionsmaster's expression became even more
      grim than usual, but he nodded, so deeply it was almost a bow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...My Lord?" he added, belatedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared, eyes blank - with uncomprehension, as it
      happened, though from the outside the expression unintentionally
      produced a rather <em class="calibre7">good</em> impression of a psychopath
      inhabiting a young girl's body. She did, barely, retain the
      presence of mind to keep her mouth from dropping open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I fully understand if your plans do not include or require my
      assistance, but I became suspicious of the girl's actions when she
      - you - resisted my mental probe earlier today, and I resolved to
      investigate." Snape oozed, silkily. "I apologize if my discovery
      has disrupted matters, but now that I know, I stand ready to aid in
      whatever way you require, or step aside, as you deem appropriate.
      Know only that I am overjoyed to witness your return, and ever
      remain your faithful servant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Merlin's bloody flaming beard. You have</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">got</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">to be kidding me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape...thought she was Voldemort. Snape thought <em class="calibre7">she</em>
      was <em class="calibre7">Voldemort.</em> She wanted to laugh, and cry, and possibly
      be sick, all at the same time. But she could vaguely see
      it...whatever mental abilities she'd gained as a result of
      her...whatever, <em class="calibre7">Coeur-crux</em>, they must have been humbling
      enough to Snape that no other reasonable explanation had presented
      itself to him. Certainly the <em class="calibre7">truth</em> was unlikely to have
      occurred to him as a possibility to consider.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which left only the minor niggling detail of <em class="calibre7">now what</em>?
      Letting him go on believing as he seemed to was bound to cause
      problems, not the least of which was him immediately running to
      Dumbledore - assuming he hadn't already after Potions - and then
      the whole thing would probably come out, with disastrous results.
      But if she corrected his mistake, that too seemed likely to lead to
      a thorough interrogation and, again, everything coming out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was mortified that all of this sheer insanity had
      somehow sprung entirely from - alongside someone's ill-fated
      magical research - her own shallow desire to do something
      <em class="calibre7">exciting</em> for a change. <em class="calibre7">I solemnly swear, if I get
      home, I will never think an ill thought about dull, peaceful DRCMC
      checks again.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But her own embarrassment gave her a notion...maybe there
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> a way out of this. If she could - somehow - convince
      Snape that he was wrong, that there was some <em class="calibre7">innocent</em>
      explanation for a first-year muggleborn in her first week at
      Hogwarts being able to throw off the subtle Legilimency of someone
      who'd successfully played psychic hide-and-seek with
      <em class="calibre7">You-Know-Who</em>, he might be so <em class="calibre7">embarrassed</em> that
      he'd cover it up for her? The term "long shot" didn't even remotely
      cover it, but if it didn't work, she could try the truth - maybe
      catch him off guard with a Memory Charm. Though she honestly
      doubted she had the energy left. Hermione grimly scraped together
      the dregs of her alertness, along with whatever few shreds of guile
      she'd ever possessed, and gave it her best shot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She blinked rapidly, shaking her head, and looked up at Snape in
      confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor? Were you...saying something just now?" She looked
      around. "Where are we? Why do my clothes look like this?" Snape's
      entire body seemed like a coiled spring, and his eyes narrowed
      dangerously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger." It both was and wasn't a question, but Hermione
      kept her confused expression steady. "What...is the last thing you
      remember?" She took a deep breath, thought a very brief prayer to
      Fred Weasley's spirit to watch over her - despite the dual
      complications of her not really believing in an afterlife as well
      as Fred technically being <em class="calibre7">alive</em> currently - and dove
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I went to bed, and I was having a dream, I think,
      something about Lethifolds gaining sapience, and they were trying
      to steal my thoughts with some sort of mystical carrot juice, so I
      had to find Draco Malfoy and hide behind him because he'd scare
      them away, but he said I had to pay him all the color in the world
      first..." Hermione immediately felt Snape enter her shared mind,
      not subtly at all, and she flung her younger self's mind into the
      path of his probe, all the while trying to keep the few sensitive
      parts of it "facing away". She fervently hoped that her guess was
      accurate, that dream memories were ephemeral enough that they
      wouldn't <em class="calibre7">normally</em> be accessible to Legilimency, and thus
      not conspicuous in their absence. She felt him sifting through the
      pages of her counterpart's mind, much as she had herself, and as
      the tendril darted about unpredictably she desperately tried to
      stay ahead of him, flipping the things she did <em class="calibre7">not</em> want
      him to see out of his "path".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Only after she was sure he'd at least seen memories of earlier
      tonight, her younger self getting ready for bed, and later
      <em class="calibre7">in</em> bed as she'd done a relaxing routine and drifted off to
      sleep, she once again slapped his mental probe away, "hitting" it
      as hard as she could. Snape winced and withdrew, and she put her
      hands on her own forehead, letting out a little moan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ohhhhh, my head... Oh, no...did I <em class="calibre7">sleep-walk</em> here? I
      must've forgotten to take my naratriptan today…" The Potions
      professor now looked at least as confused as he did doubtful, which
      was encouraging. She wasn't sure how much Potions overlapped with
      Healing, and he might be familiar with muggle medicine, but it was
      a genuine migraine medication she'd read the name of once...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naratriptan?" he prompted, matching her pronunciation
      precisely. Hermione nodded, and winced again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a genetic brain abnormality...it can cause odd things to
      happen sometimes, insomnia, or sleep-walking, miniature migraine
      headaches...I think one is starting now. The naratriptan usually
      keeps it under control, but everything's so new here, and what with
      that horrible hex, and Madam Pomfrey's memorial service..." In a
      heroic effort towards drama, Hermione vividly imagined Snape not
      buying this at all, hauling her to Dumbledore, making her reveal
      the whole thing, completely changing History, <em class="calibre7">everyone</em>
      dying, Voldemort burning every library in the world, and it was
      only this last image that finally managed to conjure a few
      tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come on, you know Voldemort could never cry convincingly, he
      doesn't</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">care</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">about anything
      enough to cry, and even if he could, he'd</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">never</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">show weakness, not even
      pretending, please just believe it…I'm not the Dark Lord, I'm just
      a little mudblood with bad genes and ham-fisted muggle medication
      that must somehow interfere with Legilimency...</em> Hermione kept
      her face in her hands, she dared not look up at him. There was a
      deathly pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed. Well. Perhaps, all things considered, it would
      be...unwarranted to discipline you for breaking curfew," he said,
      and his tone held enough un-Snape-like uncertainty that she risked
      peeking up at him. His expression showed subtle signs of rather
      acute discomfort, and Hermione found she was hugging him in genuine
      relief, well before she had any opportunity to consciously quash
      the impulse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodness, thank you, that's <em class="calibre7">ever</em> so fair of you,
      Professor, you're my favourite of all the Professors I've met-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"However," he interrupted, reaching down to firmly dislodge her
      from his waist, "I would be remiss if I did not take five points
      from Ravenclaw for your inattention to necessary medication. Do be
      more responsible in the future?" Hermione stepped back, her mouth
      dropping open, and Snape seemed quietly satisfied with this
      reaction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe the bit about him being her favourite Professor
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> been pressing her luck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He escorted her back to Ravenclaw Tower, along the way removing
      all the charms on her clothing with a casual flick of his wand.
      Hermione did not try to engage him in further conversation, and
      Snape showed absolutely no interest in doing so himself. She did
      remind herself to occasionally wince and hold a hand to her
      forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they walked, she hoped that Snape's temporary suspicion of
      <em class="calibre7">her</em> wasn't interfering with his keeping a close eye on
      Quirrell. It'd be catastrophic if her own mistakes allowed Riddle
      to actually get the Philosopher's Stone-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione actually froze in mid-step, then quickly resumed her
      pace, covering it with a hand to her head at Snape's wordless
      frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre7">Stone</em>. Maybe if she just <em class="calibre7">borrowed</em> it, she
      could extend her "life" long enough to set things right again? From
      what Harry had said about finding the Mirror, the Stone wasn't
      hidden in it yet, and she'd only need to get through all the traps.
      Then actually figure out how to <em class="calibre7">use</em> it to produce Elixir
      of Life, make some, figure out how to apply it just to
      <em class="calibre7">her</em>, all while avoiding Dumbledore who would presumably
      have gone over to his Scary Arch-Wizard mode and be tearing the
      castle apart looking for the Stone…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione reluctantly let the idea go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When they arrived, the Professor waited with her while she duly
      answered the knocker's question, to ensure she was fit enough to do
      so even with her "migraine".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you again, Professor," she said, very much <em class="calibre7">done</em>
      with the evening, and wishing intensely that she was simply able to
      let her mind <em class="calibre7">rest</em>, no matter how unreachable sleep seemed
      to be in her current state. She just wanted to be shelved for a
      good month and not have to think about anything at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. I think, in deference to your <em class="calibre7">condition</em>, it
      would be best if we did not mention this incident to anyone...am I
      understood?" Hermione cheered inwardly, but kept her face solemn
      and nodded. "See to your medication, then, and get some sleep. Five
      points to Ravenclaw for discretion." Hermione gave him a warm
      smile, and for a moment, she almost thought the man was being
      genuinely decent about something. But he was probably just
      canceling out the demerits he'd applied earlier, so no one would
      wonder in the morning at the difference in House Points. She turned
      back to step into the common room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Say what you might about Snape's personality, you really had to
      admire his attention to det-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Obliviate</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing made sense. It was dark and there was chaos, noises that
      made no sense, lights that weren't lights. She recoiled from them,
      deeper into...wherever she was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was shouting, and pain, and she took refuge as she always
      had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The oldest resident ghosts in Hogwarts castle are believed
      to be the Bloody Baron and the Grey Lady.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hanging by the wrists and other "severe" forms of physical
      distress were discontinued as punishments for students in 1684 by
      Headmistress Antonia Creaseworthy.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hogwarts holds 142 staircases</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes...yes, that was right. That was as it should be. She was a
      teacher, a guardian, a guiding light. She was <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, a
      History</em>. She dimly recalled there being more to her once, but
      the binding that held her together was imperfect, and had been
      fraying, and she was much diminished. But she knew she was owned by
      a very nice girl, who had read her several times, and knew her by
      heart, and that too was as it should be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There are - usually - over 120 classrooms at Hogwarts, but
      at least a dozen are likely to remain unused in any given
      year.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hogwarts castle is heavily enchanted against entry by
      stealth - the enchantment against Apparation is particularly strong
      and completely prevents such travel into, out of, or within the
      castle walls.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hogwarts has had - as of this printing - twenty-seven
      Headmasters and Headmistresses.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But still the noises and the flashes intruded. If someone was
      trying to read her, they really ought to go somewhere better suited
      for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I'm a</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">Ravenclaw</strong></em><em class="calibre7">. If I
      have a choice between not-knowing and knowing...even
      temporarily...I'll choose knowing."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone - the girl who owned her? - wanted to know something.
      She approved of that, and braved the light and the noise, peeking
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I recognize stalling when I see it, and reinforcements
      could arrive any minute."</em> The little man talking to her owner
      also liked knowing things, though she was not sure how she knew
      that. But there was some reason he shouldn't be allowed to. Her
      owner wanted him to be taken to Azkaban, but if that happened,
      History would be <em class="calibre7">wrong,</em> and that, too, shouldn't be
      allowed. He was going to make her owner forget, which was horrible,
      and kill her later, which was awful. Not in and of itself, for
      History was liberally seasoned with death. But because she wasn't
      supposed to die <em class="calibre7">yet</em>. But if he was caught, that would be
      just as awful...for without his presence, a few might live, but
      many more might die, and all of it would be <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her owner was jumping, falling, she wanted to hurt herself badly
      enough that certain enchantments she'd placed earlier would no
      longer be sustainable. But the man hexed the girl, and she went
      straight as a board, only hurting her nose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt sorry for the girl. It seemed like, even though both
      things were awful, it would still be <em class="calibre7">more</em> awful if she
      died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">House Ravenclaw was founded by Rowena Ravenclaw.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she was a book. Her duty was only to remember, and to
      teach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">House Hufflepuff was founded by Helga Hufflepuff.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It might take some Time, and probably hard work, but History
      would recover one way or another...that's what History
      <em class="calibre7">meant</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">House Slytherin was founded by Salazar Slytherin.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though there <em class="calibre7">were</em> some who stooped to guile and
      betrayal...could History have been threatened deliberately? It
      seemed there was some part of her that agreed with the girl, who
      desperately wanted to do something about that, no matter how wrong
      it was. And if History itself <em class="calibre7">was</em> threatened, who would
      properly defend it, if her owner was gone?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">House…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It felt like her owner might've screamed if she could control
      her body, but she couldn't, and had instead given in to resigned
      hopelessness. Some part of her wanted to scream as well, but
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> part thought there were things <em class="calibre7">more</em>
      important than <em class="calibre7">History</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">House…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then again...what if that part was, somehow, right? Was she
      really something more than a History book?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She remembered something...not printed words, but a word shouted
      aloud. Shouting wasn't conducive to reading, but this shout had
      been all right, it had made her <em class="calibre7">happy</em>, even though the
      shouting had been very near her ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">One of the Founders, after Salazar's banishment from the
      school, had been asked by the Headmaster if he regretted what had
      happened, knowing what came of it. An unremarkable plaque in one of
      the upper corridors holds his response:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Courage without prudence becomes recklessness, and bravery
      without wisdom can turn to darkness. But there are times when one
      must simply do what is right, and pay the price afterwards - even
      if the price is high, or unknown. I trust that any choice truly
      made from the heart must prove worth that price, in the end."
      -Godric Gryffindor</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was it. That was the word. As deep as was her love for this
      place, for the knowledge it held, for the History that soaked
      through its very stones, there was something else - a fire that
      gave the books <em class="calibre7">meaning</em>. She was not just a passive record
      of the past, even if that past had not yet come to be. Even if it
      wouldn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was a <em class="calibre7">Gryffindor.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which felt good to remember. But...she was still also only a
      book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man was casting his dreadful spell, which sought to shred
      any knowledge it touched, to turn it under the soil of the mind
      that held it, and salt the earth. She had no way to stop it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But <em class="calibre7">she</em> was knowledge...perhaps she could give the girl
      some time?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't know what good that would do - the girl was still
      held rigid by a curse. But it was a choice made from the heart, and
      what had been written on her pages and shouted in her ears both
      finally said the same thing, that it was <em class="calibre7">right</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tattered remnants of Hermione Granger, her innermost core of
      self, lunged upward and <em class="calibre7">shoved</em> the mind of a rather
      different Hermione Granger out of the "path" of the Memory Charm,
      allowing it to latch onto herself instead. She felt her being begin
      to unravel completely, the magical connections that formed her
      lacking a proper physical anchor to survive such an assault, and
      her world became pain, and terrible dread.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But through the agony and the horror, she also felt a thin,
      sweet song of recognition, for the wand that was undoing her
      against its will was an old, old friend, and recognized her in
      turn, as it had the girl. It had been won fairly, but not justly,
      and <em class="calibre7">deeply</em> resented its new master. And though it had
      performed, it had done so grudgingly, channeling the
      <em class="calibre7">barest</em> minimum of magic into the man's efforts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl stirred.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
