<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 3 - Needful Things, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Needful Things</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 3 - Needful Things</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The trip into London was uneventful. Hermione's parents spent
      most of the time contrasting their brief visit with Professor
      McGonagall to Professor Flitwick's visit, with a lot of comments on
      how <em class="calibre7">normal</em> Professor McGonagall had seemed, aside from
      vanishing from their foyer before their eyes, of course. Hermione
      kept to herself, going over the encounter in her memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall had seemed very...professorial. Not like
      Professor Flitwick, who'd been quite social and gone to
      considerable lengths to put everyone at ease. She was also
      obviously surprised to hear he'd visited them, which made Hermione
      curious. Clearly he hadn't mentioned it to her - maybe they just
      hadn't run into each other? But then why had she sounded so...put
      out about it? Hermione resolved to pay close attention to
      interactions between the Professors. It wouldn't do to get on
      anyone's bad side before even turning in a single assignment!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that vanishing trick seemed quite useful, rather more so
      than turning an entire room colors, no matter how proud Professor
      Flitwick had seemed to be of the accomplishment. Hermione made
      another note to keep an eye out for that while reading her books,
      something she was frankly itching to begin. The past couple days
      waiting had been almost torture - Professor Flitwick had said there
      was probably no point in reading the Wicca and other 'magic' books
      at her library, which left her with little she could do to
      prepare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd memorized the Letter, of course, including the list of
      books, equipment and supplies she would need. And after hearing the
      Professor's explanations about 'Accidental Magic', she went over
      all her memories of the odd 'lucky' experiences she'd had over the
      years, writing them down in as much detail as she could remember
      and going over common features. It seemed clear that emotion was a
      frequent contributor, if not necessarily intent. But <em class="calibre7">need</em>
      had been an element of almost all of them, and that made her wonder
      a bit about her priorities, but only for a moment. Books were
      <em class="calibre7">important</em>, after all. But she hadn't tried to do any more
      Accidental Magic on purpose, partially since the very concept was
      rather contradictory, but more because of Professor Flitwick's
      intimations that though it rarely caused lasting or irreversible
      harm, Accidental Magic <em class="calibre7">could</em> on occasion be dangerous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So instead she'd resorted to one of her problem-solving
      techniques, which told her that if she couldn't do anything
      productive at one level of the problem, to move up or down a level
      and try again. She'd seen for herself that precise wand motions
      were important, so she'd checked out a few books on increasing her
      manual dexterity, and had spent several hours working through both
      juggling and sleight of hand exercises. From what Professor
      Flitwick had said, spellbooks weren't referred to in practical
      situations, spells were meant to be entirely memorized, so she
      re-read her books on mnemonics as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But finally the day had arrived, they were here, and they were
      approaching number 113. Hermione felt as if her eyes were sponges,
      ready to soak in every detail and file it away for proper
      consideration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Leaky Cauldron was, accordingly, something of a
      disappointment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A pub?" said Hermione with mild incredulity. Little more than a
      small window and a door, hardly noticeable between the large and
      busy shops on either side of it. But then, Witches did apparently
      have that concern about secrecy, so she supposed they'd
      <em class="calibre7">want</em> it to be easily missed. Her parents, however, were
      scrutinizing the pocket street map they'd brought, looking back and
      forth between the bookshop and record store.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it's one of those out-of-sequence places, further up or
      down a ways?" mused Mr Granger. Hermione, perplexed, cleared her
      throat, glancing at the pub's entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not by the listings...not that there was a listing for this
      place anyway," observed Hermione's mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She really ought to have given us landmarks if it was going to
      be trouble to find," complained her father.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Hermione interrupted, raising her voice a bit. Her
      parents turned to her, looking surprised and a bit irritated. "I'm
      sorry," said the girl, "but it's <em class="calibre7">right there,</em>" she
      explained, pointing. The couple looked at the bookshop, then the
      record store, then their daughter. Their eyes didn't even slow as
      they passed over the door of the pub. Admittedly, it was extremely
      dingy, but it's not like it was <em class="calibre7">hidden</em>.
      Unless...secrecy…?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take my hands," she said suddenly, reaching an arm up towards
      each of her parents. For a moment it seemed they would object, but
      they looked at each other, then did as she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their mouths fell open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess that means you can see it now?" asked Hermione
      excitedly. "Let's go, then!" She tugged them forward, and her
      father opened the door to the pub with his free hand, staring in
      wonderment. As the three entered the darkened interior, they saw
      Professor McGonagall stopping short in front of them, looking quite
      different - the drab flower print had been replaced with an
      elaborate pointed hat and a sort of formal robes in emerald
      green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just coming out to explain how to resolve the protections
      against muggles noticing the Leaky Cauldron, but I see Miss Granger
      has worked that out on her own," she said, sounding mildly
      impressed. "Well, it's done at any rate, so shall we get started?"
      The Professor spun and led them through the pub towards the back,
      the hem of her robes waving gently with the vigor of her stride,
      and somehow looking much more natural than the very normal dress
      she'd been wearing before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other denizens of the Leaky Cauldron wore a collection of
      equally unusual garments, and glanced with mild interest at the
      Grangers as they passed. Hermione's parents seemed freshly
      intimidated by the suddenly-appearing pub door and the mild
      strangeness inside and stared fixedly at the Professor's back,
      while Hermione instead tried to look around in every direction at
      once, lingering on the chalkboard listing drinks and dishes on
      offer (Butterbeer - two sickles, Gillywater - three sickles,
      Vagabond's Pillow - five sickles, eleven knuts), as well as the
      sole book visible - being read by a young man in the corner, it was
      titled 'Creatures of the Far East and Which Parts of
      <span>You</span> They Find Delicious'. But before she could really
      begin to puzzle out the illustration on the back, they were already
      through, and into a cramped courtyard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had the look of exactly the sort of place - had this actually
      been an elaborate ruse - where a couple of toughs would've emerged
      from the shadows and demanded all of the Grangers' money and
      valuables. But before Hermione's parents had time to form such
      thoughts, McGonagall had withdrawn her wand from her robes and
      smartly tapped a particular brick in the courtyard wall three
      times. There was an eye-twisting rearrangement of the bricks into
      an archway, beyond which was a bustle of color and activity. The
      Professor urged them through, then followed herself, the archway
      shifting back into a solid wall as quickly as it had formed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Diagon Alley was impossible in several ways. First, it clearly
      couldn't fit where it was situated, at least not if Hermione's
      parents' street map was at all accurate. Second, many of the
      buildings looked as if not only building codes but indeed
      fundamental principles of load and balance were not so much
      <em class="calibre7">laws</em> as polite <em class="calibre7">suggestions</em>, easily worked around
      if you were in a hurry. And Third...it was <em class="calibre7">too much</em>. Her
      parents might've been rooted to the spot if they hadn't feared
      losing Professor McGonagall in the busy streets. Whereas every
      direction Hermione looked revealed at least a dozen things she
      didn't understand and would dearly like to have had explained to
      her (or have her guesses confirmed), except half of them would be
      gone when she glanced back and every step they took brought
      <em class="calibre7">another</em> dozen into view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In desperation, Hermione focused on <em class="calibre7">just</em> memorizing the
      names and locations of each shop they passed, with a few examples
      of what seemed to be on display in the windows - and giving special
      attention towards any that seemed to sell books, of course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor's businesslike pace brought them quickly within
      sight of Gringotts, whose bright and straightforward architecture
      quite clearly stated 'I am a <em class="calibre7">Bank</em>. I am sturdy and
      reliable - indeed <em class="calibre7">impregnable</em> - and none of that haphazard
      tilting nonsense will be brooked <em class="calibre7">here</em>, thank you kindly.'
      The very normalcy of it - even if the bronze doors were a bit
      ostentatious - helped the elder Grangers relax a bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some muggles are taken aback at discovering that Gringotts is a
      goblin-run bank," said Professor McGonagall suddenly as they
      approached. "A few have even screamed upon seeing their first
      goblin, though you seem more open-minded than that sort," she added
      with elaborate casualness, aiming a friendly glance towards
      Hermione's parents. Hermione wasn't sure she'd ever heard anyone
      refer to her parents as <em class="calibre7">open-minded</em>, but having heard
      themselves suggested as such, they'd no doubt be doing their best
      to live up to that expectation. Just in time, too, as there was in
      fact a goblin standing guard outside the bank. Mr. and Mrs. Granger
      nodded politely to him, trying not to let their eyes widen, while
      Hermione examined him as closely as she could without actually
      staring, and added another fifty or so questions to her mental list
      of things she needed to know immediately or sooner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor coached Mr. Granger through the relatively simple
      money-changing transaction. He had to do it himself, as the goblins
      took fiduciary responsibility <em class="calibre7">very</em> seriously, and would
      not allow the Professor to act as an intermediary without a lot of
      tedious documentation - which they would also have charged various
      fees to witness and certify. Mostly she stressed that he should
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> count the coins as he received them. Hermione's father
      actually seemed a bit <em class="calibre7">more</em> nervous due to all of the fuss,
      but managed to get through without incident. He'd apparently taken
      the Professor's advice about excess to heart, as he'd given the
      teller around three hundred pounds, and received three sizeable
      bags of coin in return. After leaving Gringotts, the family
      examined some of the coins curiously while Professor McGonagall
      explained the coins' relative values.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're so light, but solid," remarked Mrs. Granger, hefting a
      couple of Galleons in her palm. "Gold is at two-eleven per troy,
      isn't it, dear-" she glanced at her husband, who nodded, "so at
      five pounds to the Galleon there can't be much more than a third of
      an ounce of gold in each coin. What's the rest?" Dentists had to
      buy metals for fillings regularly, and she seemed relieved to have
      something familiar to discuss for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic," said Professor McGonagall, with a prim smile. "As I
      understand it, the minting process makes counterfeiting quite
      difficult while also enhancing durability, though goblins are quite
      reluctant to discuss the details of their metal-magics with
      outsiders." Mrs. Granger's brief comfort slipped visibly from her
      face. Hermione was still thinking it over, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do the goblins do with the normal...ah, muggle money they
      get?", she asked. Without people on each side frequently buying
      things from those on the other, she wasn't sure her mother's
      assumptions about the exchange rates made sense. Professor
      McGonagall frowned, then shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure I do not know...I suppose they keep it on hand for
      customers who need exchanges in the other direction?" She seemed
      about to say something else, but visibly changed her mind. "Best
      get you to Madam Malkin for a fitting first, then we can complete
      the rest of your shopping while she's preparing your uniforms and
      pick them up after." The tall woman strode away, leaving the
      Grangers to scramble in her wake to catch up. Hermione's mental
      list was getting rather long, and she resolved to write it down as
      soon as she had a pen and paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fitting went smoothly, though Professor McGonagall waited
      outside with Hermione's parents so she had no chance to ask any
      useful questions - Madam Malkin was extremely focused on her task,
      which Hermione found commendable in general but a bit irritating in
      this particular circumstance. She began to worry that Professor
      McGonagall's efficiency would be equally inconvenient, not allowing
      her any time to explore more than the bare minimum, and used the
      remainder of her fitting to work out a solution to that problem.
      Outside the shop, she tried to put it into practice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, I was thinking, rather than visiting each shop in turn,
      maybe we could split up? The larger book shop - Flourish and
      Blotts, was it? - looked rather busy. I could go there and get all
      the books...I mean, well, not <em class="calibre7">all</em> the books-" she laughed
      nervously, "but the ones on the list, plus you know, if I saw one
      or two other interesting ones...while you three went around for the
      other things?" It really <em class="calibre7">was</em> a good idea - the fact that
      it'd let her have as much time as possible to peruse the book
      stores was just a happy bonus, wasn't it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her parents were accustomed to this sort of negotiation, and
      chuckled. They didn't have a problem with it, but checked with
      Professor McGonagall. The older witch shook her head ruefully and
      muttered something Hermione didn't catch, though it sounded like it
      ended with '-claws', but also didn't see a problem with it, as long
      as Hermione stayed in the shops on Diagon Alley proper, taking -
      and she stressed this - <em class="calibre7">no side streets</em>. Hermione
      cheerfully agreed to this condition, though of course she had to
      ask why. The Professor did that eyebrow thing she did for a moment,
      then admitted that the street connected to other areas, 'less
      appropriate for children'. Whereupon her parents reconsidered their
      earlier agreement, and Hermione had to convince them she was
      entirely responsible and only wanted to look in bookstores, and
      she'd done the same thing in the City before, and it's not as if
      there weren't some unpleasant parts of London…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the end, they gave in. She <em class="calibre7">was</em> very, very
      responsible for a girl her age, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A couple hours later, the little fellowship had reformed, quite
      a few galleons lighter but along with the other items and supplies,
      over a dozen books heavier. Even Hermione's parents hadn't been
      able to resist picking something up from one of the book shops
      they'd checked before locating their daughter - 'So, Your
      Daughter's a Witch: A Guide to Magical Adolescence'. It wasn't
      written with muggles in mind particularly, but it didn't seem to be
      aimed at a particularly intelligent audience so they figured they
      could puzzle things out from context. All that remained now was to
      buy Hermione's wand, so Professor McGonagall led the way to
      Ollivanders Wand Shop. The sign read 'Makers of Fine Wands since
      382 B.C.', and Hermione scratched another question onto her list
      with the self-inking quill she'd since acquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We shall wait outside for you, Miss Granger," declared
      Professor McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh...is wand-buying a private process?" asked Hermione,
      fascinated. McGonagall pursed her lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Personal, certainly, but not particularly private - it's just
      that it can occasionally take time and it would be quite cramped
      inside for four." Hermione was somewhat nonplussed by the answer,
      but nodded. She collected a handful of galleons from her parents,
      then entered the shop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could see immediately what McGonagall meant - the shop was
      narrow to begin with, and tightened further by shelves of long
      narrow boxes covering every available inch of the walls. No one was
      immediately visible, but the door caused a bell to ring somewhere
      in the rear of the shop. She studied the boxes while she waited.
      Few of them were labeled in any way, unless the color of the box
      was some sort of code. Though many of the boxes were so coated in
      dust the color wasn't even immediately apparent. Hermione wondered
      why they would keep so much unsold inventory in a shop so small.
      With wands a seemingly central part of magical life, she'd have
      expected it to be much more like an electronics store showroom,
      with various models displayed prominently - as other shops had in
      fact displayed broomsticks, come to think of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a problem of selection, you see," issued a soft voice
      behind her. Hermione whirled around with a startled 'eep'. She
      stopped as she came to face a white-haired old man who was watching
      her quietly. There was something odd about his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry?" Hermione asked when she'd regained her composure, not
      sure if the man had been literally answering her thoughts, but not
      ruling it out either. He waved a hand lazily at the shelves
      surrounding them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Selection. But in reverse - 'the Wand chooses the Wizard', as
      goes the saying. Or Witch, of course, but it's a very old saying,
      you know," he elaborated, apologetically. "Wands do not think, not
      <em class="calibre7">truly</em>. But they can mirror our emotions in many ways. They
      <em class="calibre7">feel</em>. A wand is an extension of your personal essence, and
      the ideal wand is matched to that essence as closely as possible."
      Hermione drank in the words greedily. <em class="calibre7">This</em> was clearly
      someone who knew things worth hearing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you need to keep a disproportionately wide variety of wands
      on hand, since you never know what will be needed until someone
      walks in?" she confirmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just so," said the man, his eyes twinkling. They were not just
      light grey, but actually silver. Hermione wondered if he had
      non-human ancestry, like Professor Flitwick, or if sliver eyes were
      just a natural variation for wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Garrick Ollivander," said the man, introducing himself. "And
      your name, young lady?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione Granger," she said, after offering her hand politely.
      At her name, the man stiffened slightly in the act of shaking her
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just so," he whispered, in a strange echo of himself. For a
      moment he just stared at her, until Hermione began to shift
      uncomfortably, and he seemed to shake himself out of a daze.
      "Muggle-born, I see," he noted, glancing down at her clothes, "I
      suppose you've no hint of your ancestry...magical, that is?"
      Hermione shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If anyone in our family has known about magic, they certainly
      never mentioned it to us - we were all quite surprised - though it
      sounds like they would've been <em class="calibre7">expected</em> to keep it to
      themselves?" The old man nodded, then began to peruse the shelves,
      muttering to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no...no...I know it's here somewhere." He moved further
      into the shop and climbed most of the way up a ladder, craning his
      neck to examine more out-of-the-way boxes. "Have to try it of
      course, after so <em class="calibre7">long</em>…ah." The old man stretched an arm up
      to extract a box from a shelf near the ceiling, then clambered back
      down to rejoin Hermione. The box was actually itself made of wood,
      carved with intricate vines. He slid back the lid and withdrew a
      delicate-looking wand of a pale tan wood. "Muggle-born...which hand
      do you write with?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," said Hermione, raising that hand. Ollivander extended
      the wand to her, thick end first. It had been intricately carved,
      making it seem as if six vines had twined around each other to form
      the shaft. She took the wand gently, her fingertips nestling easily
      into the gaps in the carving, and at the man's urging motion, waved
      it through the air. Immediately the tip gave off white sparks, and
      Hermione felt a tingle up her right arm. She was thrilled and
      amazed, but Ollivander wasn't done yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now the left," he said, leaning forward slightly. Hermione
      obediently switched the wand to her left hand and waved it
      similarly. This time, a thin line of blue vapor trailed behind the
      wand's tip, swirling slightly in the air. Ollivander's eyes
      widened. "There it is, then," he whispered. Hermione was distracted
      from her pleasure at producing the trail of smoke, which was both
      pretty and fascinating, and gave the wandmaker a somewhat vexed
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um. I have to ask, because you keep whispering like that, and
      you seemed to recognize my name...is there something unusual about
      me? Or this wand? It seems quite old, but it looked like you picked
      it out specifically, and Professor McGonagall said that buying a
      wand can sometimes take a long time, which - along with the old
      saying you mentioned - implies I might have to test a few out, like
      shoes, only this one does seem to have worked quite well on the
      first try, which means you <em class="calibre7">expected</em> it would work for me
      in particular for some reason…" Hermione rambled a bit, because she
      still wasn't comfortable enough with magical customs...maybe
      speaking in hushed tones was just a normal part of the
      process?...but the whole experience had been a bit weird.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ollivander regarded her for a moment, clearly weighing his
      words, then nodded to himself, seeming to come to a decision, and
      shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Unusual'? I couldn't say - we are each unique in our own way,
      are we not? But to be sure, you are meant for that wand...among
      other things. You have a <em class="calibre7">destiny</em>, Hermione Granger. But I
      think that if you knew it in full, you might not necessarily
      fulfill it as naturally." His words dripped with meaning and
      portent, but also a sort of absent casualness (which was a trick
      common to wandmakers).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">really</em> need to know what all of that means, absolute
      top of the list, right now. And if this is just some sort of
      terribly elaborate sales pitch, I shall be <em class="calibre7">very</em> cross and
      ask Professor McGonagall to help me buy a wand somewhere else,"
      said the girl, crossing her arms and attempting to sound stern,
      though there was a note of pleading in her demand as well. The old
      wandmaker shook his head and withdrew a gnarled dark wand from his
      robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have little doubt you will learn...everything in Time, Miss
      Granger. But it will not have been now, nor from me," he intoned.
      Hermione's brow furrowed at his choice of phrasing, but before she
      could complain about it, a bright flash issued from the tip of
      Ollivander's wand, and she was Obliviated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the <em class="calibre7">second</em> time that day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione emerged from the shop, swishing her new wand and
      staring wonderingly at the white sparks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see your purchase went well," remarked Professor McGonagall.
      Hermione nodded absently, still staring at her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had to try out almost a dozen until this one worked. Vine
      wood, with a dragon heartstring core, apparently? Is it always
      white sparks," she asked, producing another burst of them, "or does
      that depend on the person? I meant to ask Mr. Ollivander, but
      I...guess I got distracted." Her brow furrowed a little, but her
      train of thought was broken by Professor McGonagall's reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Usually sparks, the color may vary, and please refrain for the
      moment, Miss Granger?" Hermione stopped swishing her wand, looking
      contrite. "There is a law that prohibits under-aged children from
      using magic outside of the auspices of appropriate magical
      supervision, with a few extremely limited exceptions," continued
      the Professor. Hermione was appalled, and her mouth fell open for a
      moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't <em class="calibre7">practice</em> at home?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A respectful but lively debate on Ministry policy ensued as they
      receded from the shop towards the Leaky Cauldron, their progress
      followed, unnoticed, by a pair of silvery eyes behind a darkened
      upper window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: Thanks for being patient with all this set-up and
      mysterious foreshadowing. I promise we'll actually get on the
      Express next chapter, and start taking canon really off the rails
      (see what I did there?).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N 2: In response to a couple of questions on reviews: No, you
      didn't miss something - the <em class="calibre7">first</em> obliviation isn't shown
      at all, it was left out for added suspense (and hopefully dramatic
      effect)!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
