<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 6 - Unexpected, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Unexpected</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 6 - Unexpected</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was eating breakfast at the Ravenclaw table with her
      new House-mates. When the food had appeared, the Ravenclaw table
      had been the only one with a full complement of first-years in
      attendance...apparently some of the other Houses' new students were
      having some difficulty in finding their way to the Great Hall.
      Hufflepuff was only missing one - who'd apparently wandered off -
      the rest having been led there by older students. The young
      Ravenclaws had been left to work it out on their own, but had all
      managed. Late first-year Gryffindors and Slytherins were still
      gradually trickling in, being welcomed to their tables with ribbing
      and derision, respectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Hermione had discovered after they'd gained entrance to the
      Ravenclaw welcome party the night before, the large common room
      held a great many bookcases, comprising a private library of sorts.
      Many of the books were rare and some were not even found in
      Hogwarts' main library itself. One particularly helpful volume -
      <em class="calibre7">Engineering Enigmas: An Evaluation of Entry and Egress in an
      Educational Edifice of Easy Excursion from Edinburgh</em> - had
      contained a careful accounting of many of the castle's more
      changeable features, and various tips for navigating confidently.
      It took a bit of puzzling out, though, as it had been written very
      obliquely - apparently for some reason the author hadn't wanted to
      use any names or phrases that would <em class="calibre7">explicitly</em> identify
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Ravenclaw 'party' itself had consisted chiefly of students
      oohing and aahing at the books, occasionally waving people over to
      share an interesting passage, and in general a lot more quiet
      reading than most people would expect to find at a celebration of
      any kind. Even the older students were involved, as the Tower
      Library (as it was called) was apparently updated and expanded with
      quite a few new books each year, over the summer holiday. Hermione
      had been pleasantly surprised, and had headed up to her bed only
      <em class="calibre7">slightly</em> later than her habitual bedtime, leaving plenty
      of other Ravenclaws still absorbed in the books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had risen early, not just because it was the prudent thing
      to do on her first day of classes - which it was - but also so that
      she might have extra time to visit the kitchens on her way to
      breakfast. She had not forgotten the disturbing things she'd heard
      the previous night, and had used what she'd read in <em class="calibre7">Engineering
      Enigmas</em> to gain access to the only place she was certain she'd
      find some house-elves, where she might get some first-hand
      information. After <em class="calibre7">that</em> meeting, she wasn't at all sure
      what to think. She'd been appalled, of course, that they were
      dressed only in tea-towels, and they'd confirmed that they were not
      paid in any way. But every one of them had stridently, indeed
      <em class="calibre7">vehemently</em> insisted that they were deliriously happy to be
      working at Hogwarts where there was so <em class="calibre7">much</em> to do and they
      were very <em class="calibre7">rarely</em> beaten, and had seemed quite scandalized
      by many of Hermione's questions. In the end, she'd decided to put
      the matter off until she could talk to Professor Flitwick about it.
      While he <em class="calibre7">was</em> in the Great Hall for breakfast, it seemed
      impolite to interrupt his meal for what might be a long
      conversation, and since she had Charms first thing, waiting until
      after class didn't seem like <em class="calibre7">too</em> much of a compromise in
      the face of injustice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Plus, she had to eat <em class="calibre7">something</em> if she wanted to
      concentrate well in her morning classes, and the eggs <em class="calibre7">were</em>
      delicious…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So...this is the new competition?" The voice had come from
      behind her right shoulder, then after the pause, switched to her
      left. Hermione turned, and saw two identical grinning boys with
      bright red hair standing behind her, their arms folded over their
      chests. She recognized them as Gryffindors from the sorting, the
      first ones who'd stuck their tongues out for Hannah. Probably third
      or fourth years, by their height. Their grins didn't seem
      malicious, but she wasn't sure they seemed entirely
      <em class="calibre7">friendly</em> either. "We just wanted to compliment you on your
      turnabout with Scabbers," said one. "Not that it took us all that
      long to figure it out - Ron's rubbish at most things, including
      looking innocent," continued the other. From this, and the hair, it
      wasn't hard for her to guess that they were Ron's older
      brothers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't meant to impress you," Hermione said, primly. "I just
      thought you might think better of tormenting your brother if you
      had a taste of it yourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A <em class="calibre7">taste</em>? We've older brothers as well, you
      know...we've had a <em class="calibre7">banquet</em>," said one of the Twins with a
      scoff. "And does this mean you <em class="calibre7">weren't</em> challenging us to a
      prank war?" asked the other, teasingly. The nearby Ravenclaws
      glanced at each other, listening, and Hermione looked
      horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A 'prank war'? Of <em class="calibre7">course</em> not...that sounds rather
      juvenile, and likely a horrible distraction from our studies," she
      said, unconsciously doing a passable McGonagall impression, albeit
      without her accent. The Twins looked at each other, then shrugged
      back at Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh. I suppose we'll have to try to call off all the things
      we've already set up now," mused one. "Of course, we don't want to
      be <em class="calibre7">distracted</em> from our studies, so we might not have time
      to get to <em class="calibre7">all</em> of them between classes…" said the other,
      his seemingly contrite tone spoiled by a broad grin. Hermione's
      eyes widened in alarm. "And you know, since you turned him yellow
      for <em class="calibre7">noble reasons</em>, that just makes Ron's fit about it even
      <em class="calibre7">funnier</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione asked, confused. Ron had seemed <em class="calibre7">happy</em>
      about it at the time…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you didn't hear? Well, that new Slytherin goon that
      Scabbers bit apparently made a fuss about catching something from
      him - with the yellow, he <em class="calibre7">does</em> look even more sickly than
      usual. So the rat - Scabbers, that is-" they grinned at the
      unnecessary clarification, "is in a cage down in the hospital wing
      until Madam Pomfrey can make <em class="calibre7">sure</em> he's not actually as
      diseased as he looks. Even if he checks out, first-years aren't
      really <em class="calibre7">supposed</em> to have a rat. Dad had wrangled an
      exception for Scabbers ages ago, but since he's gone after someone,
      they might actually revoke it. Ron's pretending not to care, but
      he's taking it a bit hard. Anyway, good luck..." The two strolled
      jauntily out of the Great Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sighed. She really ought to have restrained herself on
      the train...this was what came of stooping to someone else's level.
      She'd have to apologize to Ron during Charms, though his brothers
      had a point about first-years only being allowed owls, cats or
      toads...exceptions to rules made Hermione instinctively purse her
      lips in disapproval. She began to wonder why she hadn't noticed
      that at the time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're dragon bait," commented Marcus Belby, a nearby
      second-year. "It's not as if those two need an <em class="calibre7">excuse</em> for
      mayhem, but if you've gone and challenged them to a Prank War…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have <em class="calibre7">not</em>," insisted Hermione. "Weren't you
      listening?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, maybe you hadn't <em class="calibre7">intended</em> to…" he shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you do, anyway?" asked Terry. Hermione explained, as
      briefly as possible. The first-years stared at her and a few of the
      older students glanced in her direction as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were already casting spells on the <em class="calibre7">train</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ravenclaw shared Charms class with Gryffindor, and Professor
      Flitwick made a fuss over Harry Potter during roll call. This
      embarrassed Hermione slightly on the Professor's behalf - he'd been
      at the Sorting, so it's not as if he could really be surprised
      <em class="calibre7">now</em>. She supposed that, taken in context, it wasn't
      <em class="calibre7">all</em> that unreasonable to have an emotional reaction to
      having the Boy Who Lived in your class, but still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tiny Professor gave an overview of all the things they'd be
      learning to do this term, and demonstrated by making someone's
      quill leap out of their hand and fly around the room, which
      everyone found quite impressive. As well as a bit disappointing,
      since he then had them start practising the simple Wand-Lighting
      Charm instead. Only it apparently <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> simple, since
      only a couple Ravenclaws managed it on the first try - not counting
      Hermione, of course, for whom it wasn't actually the first try
      anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick was very much as she'd found him on his visit to her
      house. Affable, enthusiastic, talented and clever. It made perfect
      sense that he was Head of House for Ravenclaw, though when Hermione
      overheard other students mentioning that he was a past duelling
      champion, she found it hard to credit, despite her respect for the
      Professor. It was just hard to <em class="calibre7">picture</em>, though to be fair,
      she had not yet learned much about duelling. Maybe his size would
      actually be an advantage, since he was a smaller target and
      all?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As everyone continued struggling to light and unlight their
      wands, Hermione quietly gave advice to nearby people she saw having
      particular trouble. She discovered Tonks was correct - the
      Professor did in fact give her points for helping, though not
      everyone she aided seemed grateful to be told what they were doing
      wrong, which baffled her. Weren't they here to learn? And wouldn't
      they rather hear it quietly from her than be embarrassed if the
      Professor pointed it out in front of everyone? Nevertheless, she
      persisted, and gradually made her way closer to Ron and Harry. The
      former had in fact been casting frequent sullen glances in her
      direction throughout the class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry about your rat," Hermione said, awkwardly. Ron
      shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably <em class="calibre7">is</em> diseased, and all he does is sleep anyway,
      useless lump...good riddance," he replied, a bit unconvincingly.
      And uncharitably...the rat <em class="calibre7">had</em> leapt - literally - to
      Ron's defence, or at least to the defence of his sweets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still, I never meant for anything like this to happen...I
      should've been more responsible," Hermione said, sounding genuinely
      regretful. Ron looked at her oddly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naw, it was brilliant, really. And <em class="calibre7">he</em> was the one that
      bit Goyle, not you...just one of those things," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still, I feel like I'm partially to blame," Hermione insisted.
      "If they <em class="calibre7">do</em> end up not letting you keep him, I'll get you
      a replacement pet...one from the actual list." Ron had no response
      to this other than to look embarrassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How's Ravenclaw?" asked Harry, trying to break the awkward
      silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, goodness, it's lovely so far," Hermione said, and described
      the books in the common room. Possibly in more detail than was
      warranted, but they <em class="calibre7">were</em> quite an interesting collection,
      and she hadn't even gone over the titles of all of them yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I noticed your Sorting took a while," she said casually to
      Harry, after she'd finished. It wasn't prying if she didn't ask
      outright, right?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it wasn't sure what to do with me...said Slytherin could
      'make me great' or some such," he replied with a shrug. A few
      nearby Gryffindors looked surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go on, really?" asked Ron, gaping at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. I gave it some thought, since Hermione'd said the Houses
      weren't <em class="calibre7">entirely</em> like how they sounded, but there was no
      way I was going to share a dorm for seven years with
      <em class="calibre7">Malfoy</em>, so at the end I just insisted," he said with a
      shrug. Ron nodded his emphatic agreement with this sentiment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, just because you didn't go that way doesn't mean you
      can't be great...just think about what you might've learned from
      being Slytherin, and try to develop that on your own," Hermione
      suggested. Ron made a scoffing noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pfeh...all they'd've taught you is how to be a slimy git, not
      very great if you ask <em class="calibre7">me</em>…", he said, but Harry nodded
      thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After class was dismissed, Hermione had lingered to ask
      Professor Flitwitck about the house-elves. He'd first confirmed
      that there wasn't anything it was outright <em class="calibre7">illegal</em> to
      simply discuss - aside from matters covered by Secrecy Statute,
      with respect to muggles - but there were quite a few things that
      might be considered inappropriate for first-years. But he'd
      answered her actual question readily enough, basically echoing what
      the house-elves themselves had said. It was uniformly their
      greatest desire to provide good service and unflagging loyalty -
      the magical contracts which bound them to the house they served
      were entirely voluntary, and enforced via their <em class="calibre7">own</em> magic.
      He didn't know how these arrangements had come to be common - he
      dimly recalled reading that once, millennia ago, house-elves had
      been independent and wandered, though even then they had often
      performed the same sorts of services they did now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wasn't <em class="calibre7">happy</em> about this, but given it was
      voluntary, there wasn't much to do about it, as long as they
      weren't being tricked into it somehow. The best she could think of
      right now would be to try to make sure the local house-elves were
      informed that they had options, and obviously to do some research
      on how they'd come to the current arrangements. She duly added it
      to the list of things she wanted to look into.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Herbology was pleasant enough, and Hermione thought it'd be an
      interesting class, since there were plenty of hands-on experiences
      they'd be provided beyond what was in the book. All they really did
      the first class, though, was to do roll call and then take a tour
      of the greenhouses and school grounds, with professor Sprout
      pointing out every interesting plant within sight. The Professor
      was not quite as ebullient as Flitwick, though she had a determined
      cheerfulness that befitted her other position as Head of
      Hufflepuff, and her enthusiasm for Herbology seemed easily equal to
      that of his for Charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After that was lunch. The Weasley Twins grinned at Hermione when
      she came in, but there'd been no sign of any pranking yet. She had
      decided to ignore them, of course. If there <em class="calibre7">was</em> a prank,
      she'd just have to deal with it as it happened, but it had occurred
      to her that they might be pulling a <em class="calibre7">meta</em>-prank - trying to
      make her paranoid when there actually <em class="calibre7">were</em> no threats - so
      her best defence there as well was to simply act normally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The class groupings changed in the afternoon, and Hermione's
      next two classes were with Slytherin. First came Defence Against
      the Dark Arts. Though it became immediately clear that the class
      was poorly named, or ought to have been two different classes -
      there seemed to be a distinct division between defending oneself
      from dangerous creatures and defending oneself from actual Dark
      Arts, as the former did not generally <em class="calibre7">use</em> the latter.
      Hermione wondered if they'd just been lumped together under the
      common ground of 'bad things', or if it had been done to pad out
      the curriculum in the earlier years - based on her own reading, a
      child had little realistic chance of defending themselves against
      an adult wizard in general, let alone one inclined to use the Dark
      Arts, whereas driving off minor pests wasn't all that hard even for
      a beginner, and sometimes didn't even require <em class="calibre7">magic</em>.
      Regardless of her doubts, she paid proper attention...a class was a
      class, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the same time, she also paid some attention to the Slytherin
      first-years sharing the class with the Ravenclaws, hoping to see
      some evidence for her theories about them not necessarily being all
      that bad. She got a chance when at one point in the class,
      Professor Quirrell had asked if anyone knew anything about Hags.
      Hermione had waited, but after only one person had raised their
      hand (to mention they ate babies), she raised her own, and when
      called upon gave a brief (she'd thought) but thorough overview of
      the topic, then sat down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Got one in the family, have you?" asked Malfoy. There was
      scattered laughter - all of the Slytherins joined in, and even a
      couple of Ravenclaws, though those got disapproving looks from
      their fellows. Hermione felt warmth in her cheeks, though she
      forced herself to meet people's eyes, the Slytherins' particularly.
      Some of the laughter, she decided, was just at the
      inappropriateness of the question, but a little more than half of
      the Slytherins did seem to be taking malicious pleasure in the
      implied insult. It was much the same as she'd endured for years in
      her muggle school, and it felt just as bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though curiously, her embarrassment was receding a little more
      quickly than it used to, and the laughter hadn't lasted as long.
      Maybe it was her open question about the Slytherins...having
      something to <em class="calibre7">analyse</em> instead of just feeling embarrassed,
      was letting her brush it off more easily? Or the fact that she was
      in a House meant that she now had <em class="calibre7">implied</em> friends, and
      wasn't quite as vulnerable a target? In any case, she took special
      note of which Slytherins had (Malfoy and his 'goons', plus
      Millicent, Pansy and Sophia) and hadn't (Theodore, Blaise, Tracey
      and Daphne) seemed to delight in the cruelty itself, to see if that
      pattern held later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell didn't intervene at all. He appeared not at
      all sure of himself, though his rather untraditional (even among
      wizards) choice in headwear seemed to speak to at least
      <em class="calibre7">some</em> kind of self-confidence. But he had a stammer, and
      jumped at loud noises. Nearby students whispered that they'd heard
      he used to teach Muggle Studies, but he'd gone abroad somewhere to
      get hands-on experience for this new position, and only barely
      escaped with his life - the classroom smelled strongly of garlic,
      which he'd apologized for and explained was 'a regrettable
      necessity'. Despite his timidity, class discipline didn't break
      down entirely, since everything was so new to the first-years, and
      they were genuinely interested in the discussion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Transfiguration would be the last class of the day for
      first-years, and before she'd even taken roll call, Professor
      McGonagall firmly set the tone for her classes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Transfiguration is the most dangerous form of magic you will be
      taught about at Hogwarts, with only the <em class="calibre7">possible</em> exception
      of Dark Arts. Can anyone tell me why?" She looked quite serious, in
      a way that few teachers who Hermione had encountered previously had
      managed. "Miss Davis?" she said, acknowledging the Slytherin girl
      who had raised a hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Charms can <em class="calibre7">do things</em> to you, and Dark Arts can
      hurt you or kill you in lots of ways, but Transfiguration can
      really <em class="calibre7">mess you up</em>," she said, and she sounded like the
      idea was more interesting than concerning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is part of the answer, yes...many mishaps in
      Transfiguration can be fatal in extremely unpleasant ways, or
      indeed so unpleasant in general that death would be
      <em class="calibre7">preferable</em>." The class absorbed this sombrely, trying to
      (or not to, depending on their constitution) imagine
      Transfigurations that would make someone wish they were dead. "Any
      ideas as to the other part?" Hermione thought she saw where the
      Professor was going with this, and raised her hand. "Miss
      Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, most Transfigurations aren't permanent. They're tricky to
      undo since you have to know exactly what was done and do it in
      reverse, but if you just wait, eventually they'll revert. However,
      um-" she hesitated for a moment, trying to think how to describe
      the concept, "<em class="calibre7">interactive</em> changes persist. That is to say,
      if you turn a rock into a stick, and break the stick, when the
      Transfiguration wears off, you'll have a broken rock. Or if you
      transfigure water to acid, and spill it on your hand, the acid
      would later turn back to water, but your hand would still be
      burned, and I suppose maybe some of the water would be changed
      because of how the acid reacted with your hand, though that'd
      depend on-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is sufficient, Miss Granger," interrupted Professor
      McGonagall, nodding, "but you are mostly correct. The effects of
      most Charms and even Potions can generally - so long as they are
      not fatal - be reversed by cancelling the magic involved directly,
      or as you noted, simply waiting...though depending on the strength
      and skill of the caster, you may have a considerable wait. However,
      a <em class="calibre7">flawed</em> transfiguration - particularly of living subjects
      - <em class="calibre7">can</em> become effectively permanent, if too much time
      passes. Additionally, again as Miss Granger noted, changes other
      than the Transfiguration itself <em class="calibre7">do</em> persist indefinitely,
      so care must be taken when Transfiguring anything into fragile or
      otherwise volatile forms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"However, even more importantly, and with greater relevance to
      first years - since it will be some time until any of you could
      manage even a flawed Human Transfiguration - even a simple mistake
      in <em class="calibre7">basic</em> Transfiguration can result in a form or substance
      which has <em class="calibre7">unknown qualities</em>, the <em class="calibre7">secondary</em>
      effects of which <em class="calibre7">are permanent</em>, unless they can be
      repaired in other ways!" A sea of confused looks greeted this
      declaration, though many of the Ravenclaws seemed to be trying to
      puzzle it out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An example," the Professor continued, accustomed to this
      reaction. "A fellow student during my own time attending Hogwarts
      attempted to - outside of class - Transfigure a pair of rocks into
      earrings for herself, that glowed with blue light. Some of you
      might be concerned about what happened to her earlobes when the
      Transfiguration wore off-" several female students winced, "but
      Untransfiguration is <em class="calibre7">accommodating</em>. That is to say, a
      Transfiguration itself, when properly reverted, will generally not
      cause harm or changes to <em class="calibre7">other</em> things as a result. So in
      that sense, her attempt <em class="calibre7">seemed</em> both innocent and
      successful. It was <em class="calibre7">not.</em>" The Professor paused for effect.
      "The next day, most of her hair had fallen out. The day after that,
      she fell deathly ill. It was clear she'd been cursed or poisoned
      somehow, but even after it was known to be the result of proximity
      to a flawed Transfiguration, no remedy attempted could halt the
      progress of her condition. A boy she'd...spent some time with grew
      similarly ill. She died after lingering quite painfully for another
      two days, though the boy eventually recovered. <em class="calibre7">To this
      day</em>, we still do not understand precisely what happened." She
      let this sink in, then leaned forward, and her voice gained
      intensity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have been instructing Transfiguration for over three decades.
      No student has ever died during one of my classes, or as a result
      of misuse of Transfiguration outside of classes. But there
      <em class="calibre7">have-been-close-calls.</em>" The class was silent, and entirely
      cowed. "Accordingly, you will pay complete attention in my class at
      all times to what you are doing. You will follow any instructions I
      give in my class <em class="calibre7">immediately</em>. If at <em class="calibre7">any</em> time your
      behaviour <em class="calibre7">in or out</em> of class causes me to feel that you
      are not giving Transfiguration the proper respect and are thereby
      endangering yourself and your classmates, that will mark the
      <em class="calibre7">end</em> of your Transfiguration classes at Hogwarts.
      Additionally, in that event, a Permanent Injunction Charm against
      even <em class="calibre7">attempting</em> to use the true Transfiguration Spell
      would be cast upon you by a Ministry official and not lifted until
      such time as you or your parents presented good evidence at a
      Ministry hearing that you had matured sufficiently to try again,
      <em class="calibre7">and</em> you had found a Ministry-approved private tutor - as
      you would be unlikely to rejoin <em class="calibre7">my</em> classes in any case.
      You would of course be expelled from Hogwarts in the interim, since
      until your sixth year, Transfiguration is a required core subject.
      I trust I have made myself clear?" There were a couple of yesses,
      but mostly frightened nodding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that the introductions are covered, I will call roll - when
      I call your name, please respond by restating your own name,
      followed by, 'I understand and agree to the conditions as stated'."
      She tapped the board at the front of the class and that phrase
      suddenly appeared in large yellow letters, then picked up a scroll
      from her desk and began reading names.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say, her instructions were followed. Hermione, who
      had read every word of every EULA for every program she'd installed
      on the Amiga or the IBM-compatible at home (and in fact cancelled
      the installation of a handful as a result), and who had developed a
      vaguely sceptical view of the quality of the Muggle Studies
      curriculum at Hogwarts based on her background reading, hastily
      reassessed the latter opinion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that's over with," she said with a sudden smile, once
      everyone's name had been called, "and lest you expect your next
      five years in Transfiguration - or more, if you apply yourselves -
      to be spent in mortal terror…" She tapped her wand on her desk, and
      with an eye-watering twist it became a large pig, which stood there
      docilely, only shifting slightly. The students leaned forward
      eagerly, and a few made quiet exclamations. "At the risk of
      immodesty, true Transfiguration is the <em class="calibre7">pinnacle</em> of the
      magical arts. No other discipline requires the same combination of
      knowledge, concentration and precision, nor allows for as much
      creativity in practice and immediate flexibility in application."
      The Professor paused a moment, then tapped the pig and her desk
      returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She chose to capitalize on the enthusiasm this demonstration had
      generated by launching immediately into a lecture on the basics of
      Transfiguration, insisting that everyone take careful notes. Though
      Hermione had already read all of this, she took notes just as
      carefully, due - aside from her natural inclinations - both to
      Professor McGonagall's warnings of the dangers as well as Hannah's
      insight that their books might not be current, or even complete.
      Some of the notes were on the differences between Transfiguration
      Charms, which were very numerous and quite specialized, and the
      true Transfiguration <em class="calibre7">Spell</em>, which was easy to cast - the
      incantation was "<em class="calibre7">Mutato</em>", and there was no required wand
      motion - and which could theoretically do <em class="calibre7">anything</em>
      involving Transformation, but which was <em class="calibre7">very difficult</em> to
      get to do exactly what you wanted. Most of the notes were specifics
      on how to approach the latter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor finally passed out matchsticks to everyone, and
      explained that their first project was changing them into needles
      with true Transfiguration. Many students immediately began their
      attempts, with predictable utter failure. Hermione followed her
      notes and the reading, which said the first step was to identify
      and keep a firm mental image of as many points of comparison as
      possible between the target and the destination, and only
      <em class="calibre7">then</em> cast the spell, aiming to eliminate all the
      divergences. After a couple of minutes, she had the obvious list,
      as did most of the Ravenclaws, who began their own attempts. But it
      seemed clear from the reading that, since they were so
      inexperienced with the proper concentration and had little 'magical
      strength' to speak of, their success <em class="calibre7">today</em> would depend
      much more on their mental pictures. So Hermione continued on,
      making estimates from memory of the chemical structure and
      composition of wood versus steel, and even of carbon, hydrogen and
      oxygen versus iron, filling several parchments with relevant
      calculations and diagrams.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She got so involved in this that, by the time the class was
      nearly over and Professor McGonagall was coming around to collect
      matchsticks - which were largely unchanged except for those of a
      couple of Ravenclaws who'd managed to make them slightly more
      pointy - Hermione hadn't started a single attempt. She hadn't even
      taken her wand out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger, practice and practical application is
      <em class="calibre7">essential</em> to your understanding of Transfiguration. I am
      aware that my introductory speech can be intimidating to some
      students - as it is <em class="calibre7">meant</em> to be - but please at least
      <em class="calibre7">attempt</em> the assignment in future classes?" The Professor
      sounded a bit disappointed, and to hear disappointment in a
      <em class="calibre7">teacher's</em> voice struck at Hermione's heart like a poisoned
      dagger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, goodness, no! I just wanted to write down as many points of
      comparison as possible before I started. I thought that would make
      it quicker in the long run, since the eventual Transfiguration
      would be easier..." she explained, anxiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I might have commended you for that preparation, if you'd
      actually done it, but I cannot help but note that your parchment is
      blank," McGonagall noted, her lips pursed. Hermione looked down at
      the parchment, which had been covered in calculations of atomic
      weights only a moment ago. It <em class="calibre7">was</em> blank. She flipped back
      to the other parchments she'd used for comparison and her initial
      Transfiguration notes, and they, too, were blank. She didn't
      understand. Had she mistaken a regular quill for the Self-Inking
      one she'd bought? But no, she'd <em class="calibre7">seen</em> the writing on the
      pages, obviously. In her concentration, had she <em class="calibre7">imagined</em>
      writing all those notes? That seemed very unlikely, and besides,
      she took parchment from her bag one scroll at a time only as
      needed, thus there wouldn't be several out now if she'd never
      really written at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sudden noise distracted her from her panic, and she looked to
      her right to see that Terry Boot had knocked over his bag. When he
      bent down to right it, he looked up at Hermione and mouthed
      silently, <em class="calibre7">dragon bait</em>. She stared at him for a moment,
      then looked at her quill, frowning darkly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think my self-inking quill...or maybe the parchment...may
      have been jinxed," Hermione said, in a tone sufficiently grim for
      one discussing a horrific murder. Professor McGonagall looked
      unimpressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Traditionally students wait until <em class="calibre7">after</em> their first
      homework is due to trot out that old gem," she said dryly. "I
      suspect this establishes a new record." Hermione gaped at her in
      horror, and several students - all Slytherins - snickered, earning
      them a stern glance from McGonagall. She didn't <em class="calibre7">believe</em>
      her! Not only had she lost all her notes and not even tried to
      Transfigure anything, the Professor thought she was just making
      <em class="calibre7">excuses</em>. Her mind began to cast frantically around for
      some argument that would convince the Professor - the Twins were in
      her House, surely she'd know of their proclivities - but Hermione
      feared everything she could say would only sound like another
      excuse. Suddenly she realized there was only one way she might
      <em class="calibre7">prove</em> she'd actually been paying attention and doing the
      work, despite all evidence to the contrary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pulled her wand from her bag, and before the Professor
      could say anything, touched it to her matchstick, focused
      desperately on all of the comparisons she'd done, and said,
      <em class="calibre7">"Mutato!"</em> Within seconds, the matchstick had become
      thinner, silver, and pointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop!" said the Professor, her eyes widening in mild alarm.
      Hermione wanted to keep going, it just needed to have the eye
      added, surely only a couple more seconds would-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...follow any instructions I give in my class</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">immediately</strong></em><em class="calibre7">...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's mental justifications cut off sharply as she
      remembered the Professor's rules. Her fingers sprang open as if her
      wand had become red-hot, and it clattered onto her desk, the
      not-quite-a-needle remaining incomplete. For a moment, the room was
      quiet, students cautiously standing and or craning their necks to
      see what Hermione had done to produce such a reaction, Hermione
      looking up at Professor McGonagall with worry that she'd made a
      mistake somehow, and the Professor looking back at her with an
      unreadable expression. McGonagall shook her head gently and cleared
      her throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My apologies, Miss Granger," she said, sincerely. "See me after
      class and I shall examine your supplies for tampering." She gave
      Hermione a soft smile, then collected her quasi-needle and the rest
      of the students' matchsticks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the class was dismissed, a handful of students immediately
      surrounded Hermione, asking how she'd managed her Transfiguration.
      After several patient assurances that she'd explain later, she
      managed to extricate herself and approach the Professor's desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me see your parchment first, Miss Granger," McGonagall
      asked. "Most commercially-enchanted items - Self-Inking Quills
      included - are strongly charmed against tampering." Hermione handed
      the curls of parchment to McGonagall, who began waving her wand
      over them. On a sudden suspicion, Hermione also searched in her bag
      for the notes she'd taken in her earlier classes, and found they
      were blank as well. She closed her eyes, trying to hold back the
      tears of frustration she felt coming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Laughing at her, calling her names, messing with her clothes,
      slipping nasty notes into her bag - she'd regularly endured all of
      them before coming to Hogwarts. And they'd made her feel small and
      weak, partly in the natural way, but also because she <em class="calibre7">knew</em>
      they were <em class="calibre7">intended</em> to do that, and that if she'd only
      been...better, somehow, they wouldn't have been able to. But
      interfering with her <em class="calibre7">studies</em>? That was a new low, it was
      just...just… Hermione couldn't think of a word - at least, not in
      the subset of appropriate words she <em class="calibre7">allowed</em> herself to
      think - that was sufficiently bad to describe it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are lingering traces, but nothing amiss here," McGonagall
      said. "I'll have to examine the quill after all." Hermione took her
      parchment back and handed the quill over, wordlessly. "There was
      something else I wanted to discuss," she continued, as she began
      examining the quill. "Could you explain the mental images you used
      when Transfiguring the matchstick?" She sounded casual, and it
      appeared most of her attention was on the quill, but there was a
      note in her voice that suggested more than idle curiosity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pushed her feelings down for the moment and explained
      everything she'd thought of. She did not define the scientific
      concepts involved, assuming that McGonagall <em class="calibre7">had</em> to be
      familiar with such things already, teaching Transfiguration as she
      did. But during the entire part where Hermione was describing
      alloys and lignin and atomic mass ratios, she could not miss the
      Professor's slight frown. McGonagall put the quill down and looked
      up at Hermione, folding her hands on her desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you practice Transfiguration at all before today?" she
      asked, calmly. Hermione shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I obviously couldn't do anything at home because of the
      law, and I only practised some basic Charms on the train - the book
      was quite clear about how dangerous Transfiguration can be, though
      it wasn't quite as <em class="calibre7">forceful</em> as your speech…" The Professor
      nodded, as if she'd expected this answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No child with no practice whatsoever - indeed no first-year in
      <em class="calibre7">general</em>, in point of fact - should have been able to
      perform that Transfiguration so quickly. I must assume, then, that
      your advantage lies in the muggle 'sciences', of which I understand
      very little." She paused for a moment, choosing her words, and
      Hermione shifted uncomfortably. She wasn't used to teachers who
      admitted ignorance of any kind, and while the words had seemingly
      been complimentary, they hadn't <em class="calibre7">sounded</em> like praise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am hesitant to forbid you a talent based on obvious
      <em class="calibre7">study</em>...you presumably <em class="calibre7">earned</em>
      what...knowledge...the muggles have given you. However, I must warn
      you - the student in the example I gave, Moira Leigh-Smith? She
      seemed to have a natural talent for Transfiguration, and was highly
      praised by...the Professor at the time," she said, a bit
      awkwardly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He had a soft spot for muggles, you see, and she was a
      muggle-born as well - I believe her mother was a 'doctor', as your
      parents are?" Hermione nodded, and didn't bother to correct the
      minor detail, too curious to know where the Professor was going
      with this. "I'd simply ask that before you attempt any
      Transfiguration involving muggle science, you consult with me
      first. Not that I am suggesting you are
      <em class="calibre7">irresponsible</em>...just that...I would be remiss if I did not
      consider the parallel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded, slowly. She might have resented the unique
      restriction, except that she'd just had an inkling of what might
      have happened to Moira and her boyfriend, in light of which
      McGonagall's caution seemed entirely justified. She really ought to
      have thought of it immediately, maybe she even <em class="calibre7">had</em> on some
      level but had discarded it, because it was brilliant and yet very
      stupid - though that depended partially on how long ago it had
      happened, exactly - and all for what...<em class="calibre7">glowing earrings</em>?
      Not that watch dials were a particularly more worthy goal...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will, of course. Although if you don't understand muggle
      science, I'm not sure how...er...consulting with you will help? If
      it's any consolation, I think I might understand that student's
      mistake…" The Professor frowned, and Hermione began to worry that
      McGonagall might've taken her question as an insult. But after a
      moment, she nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I pride myself on my knowledge of Transfiguration, and if
      muggle science can have such significant effects on it, it behoves
      me to correct that obvious deficiency. My impressions of you
      suggest that you will have such notions frequently, and it would be
      safer if they were <em class="calibre7">not</em> discussed in front of the class.
      Accordingly, we can arrange special tutoring sessions in the
      evenings or on weekends when you can discuss your ideas with
      me...while at the same time, you can do your best to teach me
      muggle science." Hermione nodded along until the Professor reached
      the last part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...um. I <em class="calibre7">did</em> bring some of my books from home, which
      will help...but that might take...quite a while," Hermione
      hedged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We do have seven years...I suppose we shall just have to be
      patient with each other. The Hat <em class="calibre7">did</em> offer me Ravenclaw,
      if it's any consolation," she added, wryly, echoing Hermione's own
      words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that's settled, back to the matter of your notes. I believe
      this quill-" she nodded at the quill on her desk, "is not one you
      had originally purchased. It <em class="calibre7">is</em> a Self-Inking Quill, but
      the ink it produces is Disillusioning Ink, a change that could
      likely be produced only during the original charming of the item."
      Hermione's heart fell. She'd been so distracted by the other
      conversation, she'd actually forgotten about her notes for a couple
      minutes. "Presumably it was switched for your original quill at
      some point - do you have any idea who might've done so?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had a very <em class="calibre7">good</em> idea, but she hesitated to
      immediately name the Weasley Twins. For one, informing on students
      in her old school had for some reason <em class="calibre7">never</em> resulted in a
      punishment to the offender as unpleasant as the offence itself, and
      had frequently led to even greater taunts later. Things
      <em class="calibre7">might</em> be different here, but there was also the other
      matter - she had no <em class="calibre7">proof</em> it was them. Hermione reminded
      herself to add 'forensic spells' to her list of things to look
      into.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In any case, as <em class="calibre7">wholly inappropriate</em> as it was, I do
      not think it was meant maliciously," continued McGonagall after
      Hermione had remained silent for a moment. "Disillusionment is
      easily reversed - which I will do for you now - but this particular
      ink could likely only have remained hidden for a day at the most,
      and would have reverted naturally of its own accord." Hermione felt
      a ridiculous surge of relief that she hadn't lost all her notes. Of
      course, she'd <em class="calibre7">written</em> them, so she remembered nearly every
      word anyway, but it would've taken a <em class="calibre7">long</em> time to re-copy
      them, which could now be spent more productively. For a moment, she
      felt a strange sort of gratitude, until she remembered whoever'd
      done this <em class="calibre7">had</em> deliberately made her feel awful in the
      first place, and got a bit conflicted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Professor." she said, opting to focus her gratitude
      on Professor McGonagall, who genuinely deserved it. "For fixing the
      Disillusionment, but also for...apologizing," Hermione added. The
      Professor smiled ruefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are welcome. But if I did <em class="calibre7">not</em> set an example for
      my students of both honesty and graciousness, I would be
      hard-pressed to consider myself an educator of any worth." Hermione
      beamed at her, and noted to herself that there were apparently a
      few things that made Hogwarts special that had nothing at all to do
      with magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Transfiguration had been Hermione's last class for the day. This
      meant she was free until dinner, so she took the opportunity to
      finally visit the library. If she was honest with herself, it was
      actually a bit…disappointing. After the rest of Hogwarts, she'd
      <em class="calibre7">expected</em> it to be amazing, wonderful, and awe-inspiring.
      Instead, it was cramped, disorganized and downright
      inhospitable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To be fair, based on her rough estimates (and Hogwarts, a
      History), it <em class="calibre7">did</em> have tens of thousands of books -
      obviously mostly about <em class="calibre7">magic</em>, which had to count for
      something. But Hermione had frequently visited the London Library,
      which held over a <em class="calibre7">million</em> books, and while she had not yet
      qualified for a Reader Pass at the British Library, she knew that
      it stored 150 times as many items in turn. She supposed that the
      magical population was so low that they simply didn't publish all
      that many books each year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Hermione reminded herself that the value of a library was
      not in its size, but in what it could <em class="calibre7">teach</em> you. There was
      no point in complaining about it until she ran out of things to
      learn, which she suspected would take quite a while. Particularly
      given the labyrinthine collection of bookshelves, scattered
      throughout an assortment of randomly-sized rooms on the third
      floor, with no hint of even an old-style card catalogue. She hoped
      that the librarian could help her, though she'd heard vague reports
      from other Ravenclaws that she was rather...intense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me, Madam Pince?", she asked quietly, once she found the
      thin woman's desk. "I was wondering if you-" The librarian shushed
      her noisily. The noise was actually louder than Hermione's question
      had been, but she dutifully lowered her voice to a barely-audible
      whisper. She made it a rule to humour librarians, though she'd
      never <em class="calibre7">actually</em> met one who fit the stereotypes quite so
      well before today. "Sorry. I was wondering if you could help me
      research a few-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have time to help students with homework, nor should
      you expect such help," she interrupted, sternly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well it's not actually for classes, it's just a few-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">certainly</em> do not have time to help with personal
      projects." Interrupting seemed to be the woman's natural mode of
      conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Well, I'm muggle-born...what is it that librarians-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Librarians are guardians of the library, and the books within,
      of course. I ensure that these rooms maintain a suitable atmosphere
      for serious study and research, that no harm comes to the volumes,
      and that they are only borrowed - <em class="calibre7">and returned</em> - by
      <em class="calibre7">responsible</em> students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if a student needed to <em class="calibre7">find</em> a particular-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She would consult a professor, or other students, and not take
      up the librarian's <em class="calibre7">valuable time</em>." Hermione gave up at
      this point, and took Madam Pince's 'advice', seeking out an older
      Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got a lot further with her than most people do," said a
      third-year, Roger Davies, after Hermione had - quietly - explained
      her difficulties to him. "She must like you." Hermione took a
      moment to digest this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, how <em class="calibre7">do</em> you find particular books around here?" she
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, the bookshelves are grouped into Sections of course, but
      beyond that it's a matter of practice, memory, and diligence. Madam
      Pince <em class="calibre7">does</em> go to considerable lengths to ensure the books
      are always replaced in the <em class="calibre7">exact</em> location they came from,
      so at least you can rely on that. Though if there's some pattern to
      it, she's never told anyone, and no one's ever figured one out."
      Hermione sighed. She went over her list with Roger, and he was at
      least able to point her towards the right Sections for most of
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd started with house-elves, as though it was perhaps of the
      least practical value, it was ethically the most <em class="calibre7">important</em>
      question she'd come up with so far, ahead of both what was being
      done to children sorted into Slytherin and her concerns about the
      pre-Hogwarts education of magical families. But in the back of her
      mind, she couldn't help continuing to think about other things that
      demanded understanding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the hour for dinner approached, she found herself frequently
      distracted by other students' talking in the library, and was
      starting to commiserate with Madam Pince's increasingly strident
      attempts to quash such disruptions. Finally, the librarian was
      apparently pushed past her limits, and closed the library entirely,
      herding everyone out with exhortations not to come back until they
      could maintain proper decorum. Hermione, vexed, approached one of
      the knots of students left gossiping outside the doors to the
      library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, some people actually <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> to use the
      library for studying," she began, crossly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can you think about studying <em class="calibre7">now</em>?" asked a
      second-year girl she didn't know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why...what's going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Madam Pomfrey," said the girl, breathlessly. "She's
      dead!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: Whew! Once again, sorry it took so long to get this update
      up, but I had a lot of background to work out, including a
      canon-respecting but actually sensible class schedule and nailing
      down (for this fic, anyway) some open questions about how magic
      works. Plus, some lazing about. But mostly the schedule, which I am
      unreasonably proud of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, procrastination pays off in some ways, as just as I was
      about to post this, I noticed a PM from LovingPillow, who figured
      out the door riddle! Congratulations! As it happens, the way I
      ended up writing the next chapter, I couldn't work the answer
      smoothly into the story, so it'll be left unsaid for future readers
      to puzzle over. I'll continue shout-outs to other readers who PM me
      the correct answer, but please don't pester previous winners for
      hints!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the upside, things are starting to heat up plot-wise (in
      addition, of course, to the canon plot that's still going on).
      Hopefully none of my readers are <em class="calibre7">too</em> fond of Madam
      Pomfrey. I occasionally write some hidden scenes that won't
      necessarily ever be published, just to keep things straight in my
      head, and what happened to Poppy hit me with some feels. I also
      hope it isn't <em class="calibre7">too</em> obvious what happened there (it's hard
      for me to tell, since obviously, I know already), but rest assured,
      even if you're a smarty-pants and have figured that out, there will
      be more twists to come.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2016-06-02: Thanks to /u/benthor for the brit-pick on lockers
      not being a thing in the UK!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
