<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Irrational Odyssey - Harry Potter and the Irrational Odyssey Chapter 2: The Truth, Part 6, A Riddle Reiterated, a Harry Potter + X-overs Crosso...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Irrational Odyssey"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: The Truth, Part 6, A Riddle Reiterated</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Chapter 2 - Something to Protect: Tom Riddle</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Pain flashed through the scar on Harry's forehead and he
      staggered, momentarily disoriented by the sudden shift from calm to
      calamity. In the void left by the absence of Hermione's aura, the
      sense of doom was almost unbearably overwhelming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">It was never</em> her <em class="calibre9">aura</em>, Harry thought bitterly.
      <em class="calibre9">It was a lie. It was all a lie.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">His eyes regained their focus, revealing cold stone walls and
      various apparatuses of Potions-brewing. In the corner of the room,
      a Fiendfyre phoenix radiated scarlet light which overlaid every
      surface in a blood-red tint. He was back in the forbidden
      third-floor corridor, in the final room in a series of challenges
      Dumbledore had set to protect the Mirror of Noitilov and the
      Philosopher's Stone contained therein.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Dumbledore might still be in the Mirror,</em> Harry thought.
      <em class="calibre9">Voldemort wouldn't have included that scene for no reason, he
      must have believed Dumbledore would actually be lying in wait to
      spring the trap... right?</em> <em class="calibre9">But...</em> Harry furrowed his
      eyebrows. <em class="calibre9">But even if that were true, it doesn't make a
      difference. Voldemort won't give me an opening. He'll just stick me
      in a Greater Circle of Concealment and Dumbledore won't even know
      I'm there until it's too late.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thought occurred to Harry that the Dark Lord must have
      written the contents of Dumbledore's letters. <em class="calibre9">There's no way
      those could have been based on ...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anger mingled with the adrenaline in Harry's veins. His hands
      clenched into fists at his sides, and he became aware of the steel
      ring on his left pinky finger. He glanced down at the gem - no
      longer emerald green, but chestnut brown - and his face hardened.
      More or less on autopilot, Harry began to cast his gaze around the
      room, his eyes mechanically searching for the source of the
      familiar tension. His thoughts still came slowly, as though his
      brain had been dipped in molasses; but the sense of doom was
      practically tangible in the air, and he knew that any moment now
      -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter," said a high, cold voice close behind him. "Let me
      show you something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world again went dark. The floor vanished and Harry fell
      through apparent nothingness and then, just as suddenly, he found
      himself standing in what appeared to be some sort of institutional
      lobby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was antiquated, with a black-and-white tile floor and a few
      shabby, erratically-placed Victorian chairs. Three children no more
      than a year younger than Harry were scattered about the room,
      reading tattered old books and keeping to themselves. They looked a
      bit malnourished and wore clothes that were almost as shabby as the
      furniture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened and another two dozen children, varying widely
      in age and just as shabbily dressed, burst into the room chattering
      excitedly amongst themselves. Harry caught the word "cinema" more
      than once. One of the newcomers flipped on a radio, and the three
      original children all got up and retreated to the far side of the
      room, though they still tried to maintain their own little bubbles
      of personal space.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was in no mood for this bullshit. "Are you here with me,
      wherever 'here' is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord, wearing the form of the Defense Professor of
      Hogwarts, stepped forward into Harry's peripheral vision.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
