<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 1: Something of a Riddle, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Something of a Riddle</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><span><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Hello everyone,</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">This is my AU/Continuation of <em class="calibre8">Harry Potter and the
      Methods of Rationality.</em> Chapter One takes the place of HPMOR
      Ch. 105. This story takes a different approach to HPMOR, especially
      with regard to Quirrell (who is not leather-pantsed: he still casts
      AK at will), the Philosopher's Stone, and the endgame.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Many thanks to the Reddit user /u/kulyok for her
      services as beta.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Tom Riddle.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The words seemed to echo inside Harry's head, sparking
      resonances that as quickly died away, broken patterns trying to
      complete themselves and failing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Tom Riddle is a</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Tom Riddle was the</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Riddle</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell briefly looked expectant, but then the
      expression was gone. "And though I must credit your deduction, Mr.
      Potter - or Riddle, as the case may be - it is a little more
      complicated than that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I," Harry croaked, "what do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor sighed, and his shoulders dropped, but the
      gun and the wand remained perfectly steady, the eyes sharp and icy.
      "I had rather hoped, Mr. Potter, that that would now be clear to
      you. No matter, we have time." His lips curled into a customary
      small smile. "If it puts you at ease, suffice it to say that you
      are only <em class="calibre8">mostly</em> Voldemort. As for me... well. Something of
      a riddle, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A note of hope soared in Harry's breast, buoyed still further by
      the fact that the Professor was upright and verbose, before his
      inner Slytherin shot it out of the sky in its anti-wishful-thinking
      instinct. Even if the Defence Professor wasn't evil it was still in
      his best interests to stay on guard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth to say something - he wasn't sure what.
      Professor Quirrell... didn't <em class="calibre8">gesture</em> with the gun, but it
      suddenly somehow seemed far more prominent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now. I obviously do not want to kill you, Mr. Potter, so please
      relax to the extent that it is reasonable to do so when a perfect
      Occlumens is pointing a gun at you and assuring you that he means
      no harm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tensed even further, and that earned him the ghost of a
      grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I must apologise for threatening you, Mr. Potter, but you do
      have a staggering anti-talent for meddling." The Defence
      Professor's voice became clipped. "When I tell you to do so, you
      are going to remove your Time-Turner, which you will seize by the
      chain. You will then remove your pouch and emergency portkeys, and
      hand everything to me. We are both considering loopholes in that,
      so allow me to say that I have raised anti-Portkey wards, and if I
      do suspect that you are doing anything untoward I shall be forced
      to shoot you in the arm. I do not wish to harm you, but you have
      tourniquets in your pouch and are a good enough Occlumens to ignore
      the pain. Begin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed and obeyed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's time machine disappeared into the flowing professorial
      robes, and the spares stored in his pouch floated up and deposited
      themselves in pockets and around the Professor's neck. Professor
      Quirrell pointed his wand at the pouch and muttered something
      vaguely Latinate, then handed it back to Harry. The gun vanished as
      though it had never been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor smiled. "Now, Mr. Potter, today we are
      going to follow in the footsteps of every child in Gryffindor and a
      handful of the staff, and delve into a hideously dangerous maze of
      traps set by the greatest wizard alive. Doesn't that sound like
      fun?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Some people are so likeable it's hard to hate them
      properly</em>, said Draco's imagined voice in Harry's mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But he implied he's not Voldemort - if we can get the Stone
      Professor Quirrell might not die -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Waves of relief were washing through Harry, so powerful that he
      felt like laughing. The idea that he was wrong, that Quirrell was
      not the Dark Lord, and that he might not have to lose a friend
      again...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that thought, Harry recalled watching Hermione Granger as her
      heart failed for lack of blood, as magic fled her broken shell and
      carried her mind with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He remembered Lily Potter's last stand, how she'd died with her
      wand in her hand, how Voldemort had stood over the corpse of a hero
      and laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He remembered the story of the man who called for his country to
      unite, and the skins nailed to the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He remembered the statistics, thousands dead by Voldemort's hand
      alone - that is, he thought about Hermione, and tried to multiply
      that feeling by a thousand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he locked cold green eyes on the entity before him.
      Professor Quirrell was possibly Voldemort in some way, and that
      meant he couldn't afford to be happy yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">All right. Back to being sane now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's voice in his head was telling him not to trust
      Quirrell... Voldemort... Quirrellmort? Harry ignored the bizarre
      urge to laugh again. It was just nervousness and relief, and he
      didn't need that. Hermione was supported by half of Hufflepuff, the
      other half of which was standing up for Harry's friend and mentor.
      Ravenclaw was trying to remember where it had heard "something of a
      riddle" before. Harry set all of that aside. <em class="calibre8">How can I get the
      truth from someone who plays "one level higher than you"?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter, in all seriousness, I am indeed dying. The unicorn
      will sustain me only long enough for this. The Philosopher's Stone
      is located here, and it has power beyond what, I suspect,
      Dumbledore knows. Dumbledore may be able to twist himself into
      opposing immortality, but if he knew the healing it truly could do,
      he would have seized it from Flamel long ago. As you must have
      guessed, I need your help, Mr. Potter. I realise that it is...
      impolite to threaten one's friends with firearms, but I hope you'll
      understand, given that my life is at stake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cleared his throat and clicked a stronger, calmer, sombre
      aspect into place. "If Lord Voldemort has a reputation for telling
      the truth, Professor, I have not heard it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is why it is fortunate that you are not speaking to Lord
      Voldemort, Mr. Potter. Not quite, at any rate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hope-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's exactly what the Dark Lord Voldemort WOULD say,</em>
      hissed Hufflepuff and Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shut the thought down, and considered how to ask why he
      should believe the Professor without offending him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ssnakess can't lie</em>," hissed Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Two pluss two equalss four</em>." Harry had tried to say
      "three". <em class="calibre8">How does this work...</em> Harry mustered the
      strongest Occlumency barrier he could. "<em class="calibre8">Green ssmellss
      like</em>-" Harry couldn't make any further Parseltongue pass his
      lips. "Interesting." <em class="calibre8">How does Parseltongue determine the truth?
      Could I guess Interdicted lore by trying different statements until
      one of them worked, or is it just things I think are true? If
      that's the case, could a False Memory Charm beat it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Honesstly do not hold ill will towardss you. Am not truly
      Dark Lord in meaningful ssensse. No particular tasste for
      ssensseless murderss, though admit that value placcced on mosst
      livess iss not commenssurate with that of mossst moralisstss. Sseek
      Sstone to ssave own life, iss devicce of great healing
      power."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The drowning sense of horror had drained away, and the
      overwhelming relief was replaced by growing pressure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He needed more time, he couldn't make a decision so quickly,
      couldn't just change his whole viewpoint again in a few
      seconds...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ignored his brain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort or not, the Defence Professor was not a good man. He
      never had been, Harry had always known that. He could cast the
      Killing Curse at will, would probably not lose much sleep over
      murdering anyone who seriously annoyed him...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But... it was idealism, sheer foolish idealism, but... he was
      also Harry's friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You didn't just give up on friends even when they were this
      badly wrong, not while you had a chance of saving them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You certainly didn't let them go off and pose a risk to other
      people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You didn't allow them to die through your own inaction,
      either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it wasn't as though he had much of a choice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, Professor. Let's go and get that Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">OoOoO</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor?" asked Harry as they came to a halt directly before
      the polished oaken door. "What exactly does the Stone do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had mastered his breathing, now, and he saw the Defence
      Professor clearly. The man's cheeks were sunken and his limbs thin
      and his skin grey - the sickness hadn't all been bluff... unless
      Quirrell was an exceptional actor and a wizard, which he was. Of
      course, he could just want the Stone for...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">... other reasons...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An excellent question, Mr. Potter, and one I found myself
      asking. Consider, if you will, a witch or a wizard with a heart
      blacker far than the Dark Lord's, selfish and jealous of their
      ancient device, a key not only to immortality but also to enormous
      healing power, such that they withhold it from all. Consider also
      that Dumbledore, master and servant of a Phoenix, holds this person
      as a close personal friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Flamel is a perfect Occlumens who convinced Dumbledore that he
      needed to keep the Stone away from people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. And clearly, one such as he would not tell the truth
      to the greatest wizard in the world, but he might enjoy leaving
      hints. So, Mr. Potter, bearing in mind that Flamel creates
      specifically gold, true gold, and lives six hundred years, and the
      world still does not run on happy stories, and this device is truly
      unique and of ancient power, what does the Philosopher's Stone
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It makes other magic permanent," replied Harry almost
      automatically. It might have just been a guess, or it might have
      been some half-remembered speculation from one of the few texts on
      the Stone, or maybe it was the fact that gold did not tarnish or
      fade like lesser metals. It felt like a certain guess, along the
      lines of the truth about Dementors or the secret of the Killing
      Curse. Harry was beginning to suspect that there was some subtle
      secondary effect of the Interdict, lest magic ever be truly
      lost...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite so. The Philosopher's Stone will render a Transfigured
      item the true substance, and grant permanence to Charms and
      rituals. This is is a power beyond almost any other magic. There
      are some very few spells and items that are truly enduring, others
      such as the castle Hogwarts that are sustained by a constant well
      of magic, and many that are fleeting, but the Philosopher's Stone
      imparts true endurance to any magic. Naturally, this will save my
      life, and I will gladly assist you in using the Stone to resurrect
      the late Miss Granger. <em class="calibre8">Sstone truly impartss permanenccce,
      sshall usse it to raissse girl-child-friend</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's heart did not stop, because that would be an absolutely
      ridiculous evolutionary adaptation, but it seemed a very accurate
      metaphor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started to smile. The Defence Professor was not the Dark
      Lord, he might actually really be able to save Hermione... if Harry
      had been holding a wand at that moment, he thought, he might have
      burned away all the Dementors of Azkaban from where he stood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assume you Transfigured Miss Granger's corpse into the ring
      on your finger? The diamond would be the more obvious option to
      check, and its magic would mask that of the ring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was struggling to stay properly pessimistic. "As a certain
      someone would say, Professor, <em class="calibre8">not paranoid enough</em>. I hoped
      people would assume that, and when they tested it and failed it
      would provide a second layer of cover. I Transfigured her into as
      big a diamond toe-ring as I could, to minimise Transfiguration
      damage, and just hid her under my pillow when Dumbledore summoned
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it happened, Dumbledore had never checked the ring. It seemed
      likely that he had simply sensed that it was wholly mundane.
      Harry's recently-unlocked Time-Turner had allowed him to hide
      Hermione's corpse before his bed was inspected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cunning indeed. Now, Mr. Potter, rest assured that we have
      time. Our discovery here would raise quite the hue and cry, and
      since your Quidditch game went uninterrupted it seems likely it
      shall not come to pass. Still, it does not do to tarry in any
      case." Professor Quirrell gestured at the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath and readied himself, conscious as ever
      of the hard weight on his left foot.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
