<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 2: Playing Chess, Part One, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Playing Chess, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The oaken door swung open, and -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't bother to stop himself from screaming as he threw
      himself backwards and away from the triplicate sets of glinting
      teeth. He landed, not hard enough to hurt a wizard, and drew his
      wand and roared "<em class="calibre8">Stupefy! Stupefy!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first stunbolt dazed the creature slightly, but before the
      second hit home a chunk of Hogwarts' stone wrenched itself free of
      the floor and flew into the path of the spell. The levitation
      visibly left it just before the bolt hit, and then it melded back
      into the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not bad as a reaction, Mr. Potter," said Professor Quirrell's
      somehow-audible voice over the creature's many-voiced roar, "but
      consider that Dumbledore designed this chamber as a game for
      eleven-year-olds." A genuine-looking smile. "Before he ever saw an
      army of them. This creature, which our intrepid groundskeeper
      informs me is named Fluffy, is Charmed to spit students out without
      harming them. Now, how do you suggest we deal with this most
      terrifying of creatures?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Harry said as he tried to slow his heartbeat down, "if,
      um, <em class="calibre8">Fluffy</em> is like Cerberus in Greek mythology, because
      that phrase is not ridiculous at all, then we could sing to
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell was giving him a <em class="calibre8">look.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Killing Curse is unblockable, unstoppable, and works
      every single time on everything with a brain.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um. We might trigger alarms by going in all wands blazing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was a flimsy excuse, but very well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flick of the Defence Professor's wand, a sound like a hundred
      songs played backwards in the space of a second, and Fluffy
      collapsed in a snoring heap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for alarms, Mr. Potter," said Professor Quirrell, "the race
      between magical defence and offence is a decisive win for offence,
      which is why modern cursebreakers can pierce the tombs of ancient
      wizards, and so I confess myself impressed that Dumbledore's wards
      took me many months to untangle." He gestured Harry forwards.
      "After you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry entered the chamber before his brain caught up with him,
      and he turned to behold a more-evil-than-usual smirk. Harry
      swallowed, trying not to imagine what his parents would say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room was high and dim, lit only by small, high windows set
      into recessed alcoves. The stone was grey and coarse, cemented
      together roughly, more like a ruined Muggle fortress than the rest
      of the castle Hogwarts. "Lumos," Harry muttered, focussing the
      light into a narrow beam like a torch, and began to inspect the
      featureless alcoves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What <em class="calibre8">are</em> you doing, Mr. Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Searching the room. There could be some sort of inscription, or
      a key we'll need later, or a hidden passageway, or-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell massaged his temples briefly. "As it happens,
      your mastery of Muggle role-playing games might serve you well if
      you ever feel the urge to enter the Tomb of Amon-Set, but I remind
      you once again that Dumbledore built this game, this false puzzle,
      for first-years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry skirted the drooling Cerberus and eased open the worn
      trapdoor, which disappointingly failed to creak eerily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pit dropped far below, he couldn't tell how far but it
      looked a long way below ground level, insofar as that meant
      anything in Hogwarts. He thought he caught a glimpse of something
      wriggling at the very bottom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Broomstick" said Harry to his pouch, and he climbed on and
      gestured Professor Quirrell towards the back seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell floated gently into the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed his confusion. "I thought wizards couldn't
      levitate themselves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite so. It is said to be like lifting oneself up by one's own
      bootstraps. And indeed, one of the Dark Lord's most feared feats
      was to fly like smoke on the wind, unsupported but for his own
      wizardry. How did he and I do this, boy? Answer as quickly as you
      can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm sorry, are we really still buying that he isn't
      Voldemort?</em> asked Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He swore he wasn't, in Parseltongue,</em> spoke Ravenclaw,
      <em class="calibre8">although admittedly it still probably isn't a good idea to
      trust him. So what do we know that has the power to fly?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... you cast broomstick enchantments... no, you had someone
      else cast broomstick enchantments on your underwear, then
      Obliviated them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cloth would not hold the magic. Broomstick enchantments must be
      cast on a long, narrow, rigid shape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps Harry had been spending too much time around the older
      Ravenclaws, because he had to fight down a snicker at that. "How
      long does it have to be? Could you just strap short broomsticks to
      your arms?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed, I did at first. And yet..." Professor Quirrell rolled
      up his sleeve to reveal a bare, wasted arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised an eyebrow. "You have broomstick enchantments on
      your <em class="calibre8">bones</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And in thirty seconds of creativity, Mr. Potter, you have
      solved what has been called one of the greatest challenges of
      modern wizardry." A shake of the head. "Even after much study of
      the Muggle arts of psychology and some curious Legilimency, I have
      yet to discover just what is wrong with ordinary people, that they
      do not seek to optimise what they see. If only the lore of the
      legendary Felix Felicis were not lost to the ages... but I
      digress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell flew neatly down into the pit, and Harry
      followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Carefully avoiding a patch of what Harry recognised as Devil's
      Snare, they came to another stone chamber. The air was filled with
      a metallic rustling, and hundreds of multicoloured birdlike keys
      fluttered about the ceiling. The light from the enchanted windows,
      unbroken stained glass panes that stretched from floor to ceiling,
      was rosy and soft for all that they were underground, and the
      winged keys scattered rainbow spots over the smooth bright
      stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me, but this just violates every possible rule of
      security. If you think you've secured a door with a lock, you keep
      the key safe and give it only to authorised entrants, you don't
      <em class="calibre8">give the key wings</em> and <em class="calibre8">leave a broomstick propped
      against the wall</em>. I know this place was made for first-years,
      but did that really not occur to anyone who came through here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps you ought to give the Legion further lessons, General
      Chaos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmph. So how are we going to go through this one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assume you never tried out for Ravenclaw Seeker, Mr. Potter-
      it really is rather disconcerting to be glared at like that by an
      eleven-year-old. Well, as you insist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor drew his wand and touched it to his breast. With a
      drop of blood clinging to the end of his wand, he traced in the air
      a flaming rune, all jagged edges and malevolence, looking
      disturbingly <em class="calibre8">wrong</em>. Harry took a step back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Az-reth, az-reth, az-reth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twisting flames poured out from the rune, redder than blood and
      haloed in yellow-white and shot through with further black than
      midnight. The fire burned too brightly for its wine-dark shade of
      red, glared like the setting sun just as it touches the horizon,
      not quite unbearable to look at. The fire formed the shapes of
      dragons and lions and snakes, and they began to multiply and expand
      to fill the room. The heat blurred Harry's vision and crisped his
      hair. Sweat dripped from his forehead, but an icy chill ran up his
      spine. His dark side, or just plain instinct, was urging him to
      stay well away from the cursed fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's Inner Ravenclaw suggested that the reason it looked so
      <em class="calibre8">wrong</em> was simple: in everyday experience, hot objects
      didn't usually glow that brightly in that shade of red due to the
      way black-body radiation behaved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That explanation offered little comfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Professor Quirrell locked eyes upon the Fiendfyre, it
      turned in on itself and shrank, taking the shape of a foul
      black-burning phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And something told Harry with burning certainty that if that
      balefire phoenix met Fawkes, the true phoenix would die and never
      be reborn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door burst into flames even before the false phoenix reached
      it; with a single sweep of its molten wings, the door vanished in a
      white flash, and the red-rimed doorway dripped stone. Professor
      Quirrell drifted sedately after the flames, the stone freezing in
      place as he passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to turn to his dark side, which prompted a sudden
      thought. <em class="calibre8">Only mostly Voldemort...</em> His dark side, clearly,
      was the remaining influence of Lord Voldemort on his mind, thinking
      habits and feelings somehow leftover from imprinted memories that
      shouldn't have still existed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry probably ought to have been more worried about turning out
      to be somehow partly the Dark Lord, but frankly that sounded a lot
      like something the hero agonised over for years, before finally
      realising that it was his choices that made him who he really was
      and that he obviously wasn't as evil as Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now that he knew what his dark side was, Harry thought he should
      be able to call on the icy calmness without falling into the less
      desirable parts of the pattern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An ever-so-slightly cold Harry stepped over the threshold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The vast chamber was torchlit this time. A few steps in front of
      Harry started a huge chessboard of black and white marble squares,
      each two metres or more on each side, stretching from wall to
      distant wall. Chess pieces almost the size of Hagrid stood on the
      board, intricately carven of granite, looking for all the world
      like well-made statues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room was high enough for the ceiling to be far out of reach
      of the statues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was about to suggest that the obvious solution was to
      simply fly over the board when he noticed that some of the pieces
      carried bows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell glanced at the board, and the black king and
      queen turned and stepped aside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," spoke Professor Quirrell, "since we still have four and
      a half hours until you leave the Quidditch game, it seems that we
      can afford to play. I am sure you are positively bursting with
      questions, and have done an admirable job keeping quiet. Take the
      king's place, and I shall take the queen's. Let us play, and I
      shall answer your questions if you have them."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
