<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 4: Playing Chess, Final: Cheating, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Playing Chess, Pt 3 — Cheating</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The room after the one adjoining the chess room (which had
      revealed nothing of interest after the Fiendfyre bird had flown
      through) contained Potions equipment and ingredients, but Professor
      Quirrell produced a flask from his robes and poured it over the
      flames that had sprung up in the opposite doorway. He flicked his
      wand, and a number of ingredients vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A wall of solid blackness had appeared in the doorway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter, when I dispel this barrier, you must remain beneath
      the True Cloak of Invisibility until I say so. That is a
      categorical order. Do you understand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, taking the Cloak from his pouch and pulling it
      over his shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ansswer in Parsseltongue.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sshall remain beneath Cloak until otherwisse
      ordered</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell stooped down and pulled the corner of the
      Cloak over himself, standing as far away from Harry as possible.
      The sense of doom was more bearable now that Harry knew its
      provenance, but it was still uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked incredulously at Professor Quirrell. "Two people
      can wear the Cloak at once?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would appear so, yes. You already knew that it was not
      necessary for the Cloak to cover your entire body, did you
      not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smacked the side of his own head, none too gently. That
      had been rather a lot of wasted effort in Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black barrier melted away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mirror in the centre of the room looked less like a mirror
      and more like a portal to a copy of the rooms behind Harry. It was
      framed in ornate gold, with wrought golden feet. The mirror did not
      look balanced, nor did it appear fixed to the floor. It was simply
      there, more solid by far than the walls and floor surrounding it,
      like a singular fixed and determined point relative to Earth's
      motion, no more moveable than the universe itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor gestured Harry around to the back of the
      mirror, which was plain gold, then hissed "<em class="calibre8">It iss
      ssafe</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stowed away the Cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This, Mr. Potter," said Professor Quirrell, taking on once more
      the tones of a lecturer, "is the last known surviving relic of
      Atlantis. Merlin called it the Mirror of Erised; Olga Xenda,
      supposed tutor of Baba Yaga, named it the Mirror of Vec; some
      scholars name it the Mirror of Noitilov; and a few scattered
      ancient records refer to it simply as <em class="calibre8">Nillits</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it you can't brute-force this one, Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell smirked. "It is said that the Mirror of
      Noitilov perfectly reflects <em class="calibre8">itself</em>. It is the safest, most
      secure object in existence, having survived the Flood of Atlantis
      that wiped our forebears out of Time. It can be used to hide and
      trap objects and people, and it is where Dumbledore has hidden the
      Philosopher's Stone. No, Mr. Potter, I rather doubt Fiendfyre will
      have much of an effect upon it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does it actually do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It has perfect, unchallengeable power over all that it
      reflects, and can create alternate worlds, though only those as
      large as what it can reflect. Its power is supposedly based on the
      innermost feelings and desires of its viewer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That didn't sound like a very satisfying explanation, and Harry
      said so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The head tilted. "Hmm. Tell me, student of Muggle arts, what do
      the runes near the top of the Mirror say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The runes were simple, bold black lines and dots, curving
      gracefully and coming to abrupt, straight stops, looking quite
      unlike any writing system Harry had ever seen. Harry had had
      trouble enough with Latin. "I'm sorry, Professor, I don't
      recognise-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Read them anyway. <em class="calibre8">Not dangerouss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked once more at the runes, and opened his mouth.
      "Noitilov detalo partxe tnere hoc ruoy tu becafruoy ton wohsi."
      Harry looked away, blinking. That first rune was <em class="calibre8">noitilov</em>,
      and it meant what you <em class="calibre8">detalo partxe</em> so that it was
      <em class="calibre8">tnere hoc</em> -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was almost impossible to describe: the runes didn't seem to
      relate to any other concepts, didn't form words in his head...
      Harry couldn't visualise the runes when he looked away, let alone
      transliterate them...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head and reinforced his Occlumency barriers, but
      felt the same effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it you do not understand, then? A pity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a sudden thought. "Voice recorder," he said to his
      pouch. Muggle technology didn't work very well at all in Hogwarts,
      as Harry's experiments had shown, but the pouch seemed to block or
      escape the magical field, and something this simple would take at
      least a few minutes to be severely affected - especially with
      Harry's own additions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He read the runes aloud once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned his back on the Mirror and took a Quotes Quill from
      his pouch, then pressed the "play" button. The Quill scratched
      mechanically over a scrap of parchment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Noitilov detalo partxe tnere hoc ruoy tu becafruoy ton
      wohsi.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... 'I show not your face, but your coherent extrapolated
      volition.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell was staring at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he began to laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had seen Professor Quirrell smile before, and give short,
      sardonic chuckles, but this was wild, genuine laughter, almost like
      Dumbledore had done when Harry had blackmailed him. Harry had never
      once expected to see the dignified and mysterious Defence Professor
      double over, clutching at his sides, but there he was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell collected himself with visible effort. "Ah,
      Mr. Potter," another chuckle, "I was about to say that it is known
      that even the greatest artefact can be defeated by a lesser, yet
      specialised counter-artefact," another burst of laughter, "and yet
      I never expected the last legacy of Atlantis to be brought low by a
      Muggle cassette tape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt he was entirely justified in grinning smugly.
      <em class="calibre8">Modern Muggles one, ancient Atlanteans zero.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well. That alone was worth the visit, and reaffirms what I
      suspected. The Mirror is a device intended to grant wishes, and to
      prevent the end of the world in such a way by showing a
      <em class="calibre8">coherent extrapolation</em> of the user's desire. Perhaps the
      Mirror transports those reflected therein to alternative
      universes... Or perhaps it simply traps people and objects in a
      point of time, as some tales describe. Now, Mr. Potter, to the task
      of retrieving the Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor rolled up his sleeves, flicked his wand
      and said "<em class="calibre8">Kulyok</em>." A translucent, silvery-looking pouch
      appeared in the palm of his hand. "This pouc- pardon me, this pouch
      should collect anything the Mirror disgorges, and block any curse
      or contact poison applied." Quirrell grinned. "You see, there is a
      rather nasty potion known as Bahl's Stupefaction, of which Alastor
      Moody is fond. When contacted or imbibed, it has interesting
      effects on the cunning. The Dark Lady who called herself Lethae,
      dosed with such a potion, once kidnapped and attempted to
      interrogate one of her enemies in exchange for the lives of his
      friends. Her enemy was known to be clever and underhanded, so she
      confiscated all of his belongings down to the clothes on his back,
      abducted him to a graveyard of all places, went so far as to force
      him to make an Unbreakable Vow, made vivid and terrifying threats
      against all he loved, and raised wards against any conceivable
      intervention. Unfortunately, due to the Stupefaction she neglected
      to take his wand, and he shot her whilst she was busy
      monologuing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a mental note to see if he could get Fred and George
      to slip some of that stuff into Draco's cornflakes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hidden beneath the Cloak, the two circled round to confront the
      Mirror of Erised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">OoOoO</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Mirror of Noitilov stood, solidly anchored - although, in
      fact, it looked more like the Mirror was anchoring the rest of the
      Universe. If Harry hadn't known that the Earth was in fact moving
      through space at enormous speeds, and more to the point that all
      motion was relative, he might have thought that all reality was
      centred on the Mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any ideas, Mr. Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why is the Stone in the Mirror in the first place, Professor?"
      It would make some sense, and be <em class="calibre8">exactly Dumbledore's
      style</em>, to set up a vast system of incredibly easy traps
      guarding a Mirror that could show the viewer's heart's desire
      (which could be an excellent motivator for a student) and <em class="calibre8">just
      so happened</em> to <em class="calibre8">also</em> be the last legacy of Atlantis,
      the obvious and most secure hiding place for anything, and then
      actually keep the Philosopher's Stone in his sock drawer. Or, in
      fact, his pocket, so the would-be thief would have to duel
      Dumbledore...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know the history of Baba Yaga, child?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only vaguely." After the school's reaction to her name at the
      beginning of the year, Harry had looked up the "undying" witch, and
      found standard fairy-tale fare. She had supposedly been a
      shapeshifting, immortal Dark Witch who had lived for centuries and
      vanished some time after teaching Battle Magic at Hogwarts. It was
      said that she devoured naughty children, which was used as a threat
      by parents of children too young to wonder what possible motive an
      immortal Dark Lady would have to enforce childhood discipline with
      cannibalism.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Baba Yaga lived far longer than any other recorded witch or
      wizard, and there is evidence of her shifting forms at will, though
      she was never said to be a Metamorphmagus in her youth. She held
      the Stone of Permanence, obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Actually, there was something more important...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor, sorry to interrupt, but how is the Stone made? I saw
      an alchemical recipe-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A lie. Simple misdirection, intended to frame possession of the
      Stone as some earned right, to soften the blow." He scowled. "Magic
      is not permanent, as a general rule. One of the greatest feats of
      Merlin himself was the permanent Conjuration of the Most Ancient
      Hall of the Wizengamot, and he made no habit of such magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell gave Harry a calculating look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Stone was clearly intended as a healing device. In addition
      to its primary power, it can perform with a touch feats of healing
      beyond Muggles or wizards, delicate and obscenely complex and
      powerful healing magic. The Stone's abilities are eldritch even by
      my standards. Therefore, the Stone must be unique, and
      <em class="calibre8">very</em> old indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." That was objectively the worst news Harry had heard in
      quite a while. He had entertained the prospect of some sort of
      mass-manufacture of Philosopher's Stones to provide immortality to
      the masses, and before learning what the Stone did, he'd even
      briefly wondered if anyone had ever actually tried to turn the
      Atlantic into Elixir of Life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Disappointing, I quite agree. Still, what magic has made, magic
      may yet make again. Regardless, some six centuries ago, Baba Yaga
      taught at Hogwarts. Lest she do any harm to the students or
      faculty, or they to her, an ancient device called the Goblet of
      Fire was used: Baba Yaga would spill none of the students' or
      faculty's blood, and take nothing of theirs, and they would extend
      her the same courtesy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell looked speculatively at the ornate edges of
      the Mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In her sixth year of Hogwarts was a beautiful, clever,
      horrifically evil witch named Perenelle. She seduced the Dark Lady
      over the months, and exhorted her to use her power of
      transformation to take the form of a man. The Goblet counted what
      followed as the shedding of Perenelle's blood and the taking of her
      virginity, and so Perenelle murdered the forsworn Dark Witch, and
      took for herself the Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell paused. "Of course, one does not survive six
      centuries without achieving at least a little cunning. Perhaps the
      entire story was concocted such that Baba Yaga could start a new
      life. It is entirely possible that that story, which took quite
      some effort to uncover, is merely another layer of misdirection,
      and that "Nicholas and Perenelle Flamel" are really Baba Yaga and
      Perenelle <em class="calibre8">pretending</em> to be Perenelle pretending to be both
      herself and her husband, and beyond that I cannot predict at what
      level she or they play."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the Mirror?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes." Quirrell withdrew from his robes a golden sceptre,
      which should have been too large to fit. "I arranged for an
      inscription to be uncovered, claiming that this device could track
      the Stone wherever it lay, then carried out an ostentatious theft
      bearing the mark of Voldemort's hand. I believe the Stone's holder,
      whom I shall call Perenelle for the sake of brevity, insisted that
      the Mirror be used, which alone might evade even the greatest
      scrying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Dumbledore hid it in the Mirror. What if only he can
      retrieve it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Mirror must be fair. It cannot be set to distinguish an
      individual. It can act only upon its viewer's hopes and
      dreams."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about, 'the individual must know that the password is- '
      wait, no, it has to involve the viewer's wishes... Could the Mirror
      be set to only respond if the viewer's wishes perfectly align with
      Dumbledore's?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell tapped his cheek. "Possibly. It seems unlikely,
      however, that the Mirror would be so exclusive..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could you Confund yourself into being like Dumbledore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if I could do so convincingly, the Mirror sees through
      such lesser effects. It is claimed that even Obliviation will not
      fool the Mirror. It would be utterly impossible to trick the Mirror
      by simply assuming Dumbledore's persona."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, in what circumstances would Dumbledore want the Stone to
      be retrievable?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell looked as though he wanted to start pacing. "Mere
      circumstances will not matter to the Mirror - I begin to worry that
      this puzzle is insoluble. The Mirror must respond to a genuine
      volition, a true and heartfelt aspect of the viewer's real wishes,
      hopes, dreams, intentions... Ah. <em class="calibre8">Ah</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor smiled unnervingly. He stepped out from
      under the Cloak and held out the translucent pouch in his left
      hand, gazing directly into the Mirror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the pouch, visible as though nothing were surrounding it, was
      a small chunk of shining scarlet stone, smooth and glassy and
      irregular. The pouch's appearance did not change upon contact with
      the Stone, but it somehow seemed more decisively real, fixed and
      solid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's not fair,</em> complained Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre8">How did
      he-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the Professor vanished, but his reflection in the Mirror
      remained, alongside another one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, David," said Albus Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Seemss to me that</em> <em class="calibre8">ssubreddit'ss collective
      intelligencce sshould be ssufficcient to guess meanss of taking
      Sstone from Mirror with cluess given. Yess, Parsseltongue hass word
      for "ssubreddit".</em></strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
