<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 7: The Snake and the Dog, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: The Snake and the Dog</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius leapt out of his chair so quickly that Harry barely saw
      him move. His wand, which had never left his hand, was pointed
      squarely at the Defence Professor's heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Sirius, that's an extremely bad idea," Harry said in
      growing alarm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who are you?" demanded Sirius. He made no movements and spoke
      no spells, but Harry could see faint ripples, distortions in the
      air like a heat-haze, as magic layered itself around Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's not wrong, you know," said the Defence Professor idly,
      leaning against the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Answer the question," growled Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell looked distinctly unimpressed. "Professor Quirinus
      Quirrell. And put that wand away before you have someone's eye out
      with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he with you, Harry?" Sirius asked in a controlled voice,
      never taking his eyes off Professor Quirrell, who was inspecting
      his fingernails.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is. And if he meant me any harm, I'd be dead by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius hesitated, then sheathed his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well. Sirius Black, the great traitor and mass-murderer. How
      did you manage to escape Azkaban, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None of your business."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As truculent as ever, I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a moment of silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what now?" Harry ventured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We leave this place at once. We are most fortunate that
      Dumbledore has not arrived already. Then-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on," Sirius interrupted. "Where exactly are you taking
      Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That," Quirrell retorted sharply, "is of no concern to
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried and failed to think of something to say to dissipate
      the rising tension.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something about Sirius's stance changed in a way that Harry's
      brain translated to a dog raising its hackles. "I happen to be his
      godfather."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Paying no notice, Professor Quirrell produced another Portkey
      from within his robes and tossed it to Harry. Wordlessly, he turned
      and stalked towards the half-rotten door, beckoning Harry with one
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made to follow him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius reappeared before the door, and his wand was out again.
      "Where do you think you're going?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell closed his eyes briefly. "One perceives that
      the expression 'like a dog with a bone' is well-founded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I make the jokes around here, scaly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor?" asked Harry. "Why not just bring him with us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded firmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor gave Sirius an appraising look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, Professor Quirrell sighed. "Very well. I confess that I
      am curious about our canine companion's story. Now, must I remind
      the two of you that we are <em class="calibre8">still in enemy territory</em>?"
      Quirrell stepped smartly outside the Shack, past the boundary of
      the wards. He seized Sirius' wrist, and Harry noticed his
      godfather's hand tighten almost imperceptibly on his wand. Quirrell
      reached into his robes, nodded to Harry, and vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry activated his own Portkey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The evening air was crisp and clear. The Moon rose above the
      horizon, and a faint wash of stars was visible already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell waved his wand, and a ball of light appeared
      in midair, revealing a small, deserted farmhouse and a decrepit
      barn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are we?" asked Sirius warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A deserted farm in Devon. It should do for our purposes
      tonight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's voice had grown abruptly weaker, and he led
      them towards the barn with an irregular gait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a moment, it seemed to be an ordinary, empty barn. Then
      something bent and warped in the air, and it expanded tenfold,
      revealing a warm, spacious, well-lit room. There were countless
      shelves bearing potions ingredients, spare wands, odd-looking bits
      of jewellery, and several strange devices Harry didn't recognise.
      In the centre of the room, there was a groaning, rumbling noise,
      and a black altar surrounded by six black pillars arose from the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Professor Quirrell, "first things first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell pressed his wand to himself, and suddenly he seemed to
      stand taller. His hairline spread out and forwards, his skin lost
      its pallor, and new flesh filled out his sickly, thin limbs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell reached into his pocket and withdrew the Philosopher's
      Stone. For a moment, he held still; then he raised it to the light
      and examined it speculatively. For a moment, Harry thought he might
      have seen a grid of intricately-arranged points within it, but then
      the sight was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius seemed to be about to say something. Quirrell turned
      towards him, and then his hand darted forwards, passing cleanly
      through Sirius' shields, and touched the Philosopher's Stone to
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It might have been a trick of the light, but the haunted, hollow
      look in Sirius's eyes seemed to ease, and he stepped back,
      blinking. "What just-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry furrowed his brow. <em class="calibre8">How did the Stone even know what
      Professor Quirrell wanted it to do? And how can a</em> rock
      <em class="calibre8">know how to fix a human brain?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell smiled thinly. "Mr. Black, would you mind awfully
      explaining how you came to be out of Azkaban, and by all
      appearances not in fact a Death Eater?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius paused for a moment, nonplussed, then shrugged and began
      to tell his story. The words seemed to come to him more easily this
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell raised his wand and traced a human shape in midair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A man's body, cloaked in fine and flowing robes, spun into
      existence before the Defence Professor, held magically upright. The
      body's eyes were closed, and it did not breathe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell tapped it with the Stone, then flicked his wand. From
      his pockets arose an assortment of objects Harry didn't recognise,
      which secreted themselves in the conjured body's pockets. The
      Defence Professor touched the body's limbs with his wand, tracing a
      line from shoulder to elbow, elbow to wrist, hip to knee, knee to
      foot, murmuring incantations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At length, Sirius's story came to an end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fal. Tor. Pan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An echoing thunderclap pierced the air, and Professor Quirrell's
      body collapsed to the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The conjured body's eyes opened, and they were the same shade as
      Quirrell's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">David Monroe's new body looked like Quirinus Quirrell's, but
      with deliberate mistakes. There were the same sharp features, the
      same icy eyes, but he seemed younger than he had all year, and
      somehow more clearly and decidedly present. Professor Quirrell
      stretched slowly, examining his new hands, opening and closing his
      fingers. "<em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>," he said to the man on the floor, and
      his voice had all of its customary dry precision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," said Sirius, seeming to remember that he was an
      ostensibly-responsible member of the Order of the Phoenix, "should
      I be doing something about this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The original Quirinus Quirrell stirred feebly. "Free," he
      gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Mr. Quirrell," said the Defence Professor. "My apologies
      for the theft of your body." A lazy flick of the wand, and a coin
      purse appeared in Quirinus's hands, which Monroe tapped with the
      Stone. "Please accept this as my payment." Monroe muttered some
      kind of diagnostic spell, then nodded, seeming satisfied. Monroe
      offered his hand. The original Quirinus Quirrell took it and stood,
      slowly, incredulously, then turned and vanished with a dull
      pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">David Monroe - Harry decided that it would be easier to just
      keep thinking of him as Professor Quirrell - turned back. "The time
      is come, Mr. Potter. Lay your ring upon the altar, dispel the
      Transfiguration, and I shall restore life as best I can. <em class="calibre8">Sshe
      sshall not be harmed in any manner, but resstored to true and
      lassting life.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Heart hammering in his chest, Harry bent down and untied his
      shoelaces, ignoring something Sirius was spluttering about
      something or other being impossible. Carefully, he withdrew the
      solid-diamond ring and laid it upon the black marble altar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Finite incantatem</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two-thirds of a corpse sprawled across the ebon stone, so cold
      and pale in death, standing out in sharp relief against the
      blackness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced away, holding himself together, pushing away all
      the memories, trying to ignore the image.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell glided smoothly forwards and waved a hand
      over the body. Hermione's body straightened and oriented itself,
      clothed in new Hogwarts robes, unstained by blood or spellfire, and
      then Professor Quirrell pointed his wand and new flesh streamed
      forwards, reshaping itself into restored limbs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind Harry, Sirius gave out a choked yell and made to approach
      the Defence Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stay back," said Quirrell, perfectly calmly. "This procedure is
      exceedingly complex." He pointed his wand at the obelisks, and they
      began to chant in deep, echoing tones that Harry thought sounded
      vaguely like Greek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's body started to become less pale, less twisted,
      seeming almost asleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," came Sirius's voice, gently, too gently, "I'm sorry,
      but she's not coming back. Don't get your hopes up. Whatever
      your... friend is trying to do, it won't work. The closest he could
      get is an Inferius, and that's the last thing anyone would-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Prediction noted," Harry managed. "She's not- her brain should
      be OK. I used- I used Muggle knowledge to keep her brain safe after
      she died, and she's been kept mostly static by the Transfiguration,
      and we have the Stone..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius laid a hand on Harry's shoulder. "I'm not going to
      patronise you, Harry. She's dead. Her soul has moved on. She's
      never coming back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what if she does?" Harry said suddenly. "Does that mean she
      won't have a soul? What do you actually expect to see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was silent for a moment. Then he looked intently at
      Harry. "Well... if she does, and she is who she always was, then a
      lot of people are very, very wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggles can already bring people back from the dead sometimes.
      There are people whose hearts have stopped, and Muggle healing can
      make them start again. Not always, but sometimes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked thoughtful, and said no more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's body was surrounded by a pale-blue glow, which
      Professor Quirrell had said would keep her perfectly static and
      preserved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor turned and vanished upon the spot. A few
      moments later he reappeared, stowing a Time-Turner away under his
      robes. In his hand were two pebbles, one white and one black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was all that about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor was humming a small tune to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Philosopher's Stone, as it turns out, Mr. Potter, is very
      useful. All will become clear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell took a piece of oddly bright white chalk from one of
      his pockets, and began to trace a circle on the floor, adding
      careful, precise flourishes that glimmered oddly in the magical
      light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is an old ritual that can sacrifice a magical creature to
      transfer its magical nature to one within the circle.
      Transfiguration sickness is a tricky business, and there is no use
      in taking chances. Besides, I would really rather not go through
      all this again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amid the other questions that were competing for priority, Harry
      remembered one in particular.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor? May I just ask, when you were in the Mirror with the
      Headmaster, why didn't you just <em class="calibre8">show</em> him what the Stone
      can do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell did not look up from where he was drawing the
      circle on the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dark Lord <em class="calibre8">planned</em>," he began, "that Voldemort
      should <em class="calibre8">lose</em>. He was mindful of the mistakes of the Dark
      Evangel, who tried to introduce herself as the 'Walking
      Catastrophe' and 'Apostle of Darkness', but panicked and called
      herself the 'Apostrophe of Darkness'. And so when his walking joke
      of a Dark Lord was seen as a serious threat, he lost any respect
      for Dumbledore, and to a certain degree I suppose that influenced
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why were you influenced by <em class="calibre8">Voldemort</em> in the first
      place?" Sirius interjected. "And how do you know-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">am</em> partly Voldemort, Mr. Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence for a moment, then Sirius shook his head. "You
      know what? Fine. Of course you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dark Lord used incredibly dark magic to copy his mind onto
      mine. No, I am not as evil as he. If you would like to hear the
      details, please feel free to never ask about it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell still didn't look up from his inscription.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I was saying, you discovered for yourself, Mr. Potter, that
      it is a personal flaw of Riddle's that he consistently
      underestimates other people. Well, 'underestimate' is not quite
      accurate: he does not consider other people to be players of the
      game in any respect. Your failure in your first battle against
      Sunshine was, in part, your heritage from Riddle. And so it did not
      occur to me at the time to try to reason with Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell stood up, and turned to regard Hermione. He
      raised his wand and the circle flared brightly. A thought seemed to
      strike the Defence Professor, and he tapped the line of the circle
      with the Stone. "Finite," he then said to the circle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The circle of brightness remained, and Quirrell made a pleased
      sound. "That proves that. The Stone makes magic a fixture in such a
      way that it is as though there is no magic at all. This circle is
      magical, and yet it cannot be dispelled because there is nothing to
      dispel. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From his hand fell the two pebbles, and they landed in the
      circle and swelled into the shapes of a unicorn and a mountain
      troll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry could even begin to process this, Quirrell pointed
      his wand at the two creatures and muttered, "Thuo tei dunamei,"
      then slashed it towards Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two creatures crumbled to dust, and then that too faded from
      sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Transfiguration sickness is nothing before a troll's healing,
      and a unicorn's blood will preserve life even at the brink of
      death. Miss Granger will suffer no ill effects, but live as though
      she always had that power. No lesser force or magic shall slay
      her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," whispered Harry. The Defence Professor was clearly
      in a <em class="calibre8">very</em> good mood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell nodded, and Harry didn't quite catch the odd
      look in his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, the first problem: this is the enchanted body of a dead
      Muggle. The brain could be awakened rather easily, perhaps, but I
      do not know if her own magic would return."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did some research," said Harry's lips automatically, "and I
      think magic is probably just passed on by a marker gene. Coming
      back to life shouldn't change that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps. I am not convinced... There may be a better solution."
      Professor Quirrell glanced towards Sirius. "Sacrificing a wizard to
      this ritual is a possibility-" Professor Quirrell caught Harry's
      sharp look, and rolled his eyes. "Very well. There exists another
      ritual that would solve the matter, but finding her enemy's blood,
      father's bone and servant's flesh would take time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me try something," Harry said, struck by a sudden thought.
      He stepped forwards and raised his wand to point at Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pushed down the joy that was slowly mounting. It wasn't
      enough, wasn't good enough. There were still people dying even as
      Harry tried to save this one. Dozens, hundreds, thousands,
      millions, billions who had already been lost. Billions more, who
      <em class="calibre8">would</em> have done whatever it took, torn reality apart to
      bring that someone back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had failed, or never dared to try, or hope. Most of the
      world, even the magical world, had come to the conclusion that
      death was inevitable. The prospect of resurrection had barely even
      crossed their minds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," said Harry, "this might work better if I can see
      the stars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell gave a single nod, and spoke the spell of the Silent
      Night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood in the depths of the sky, lit by the unwavering
      light of countless stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hadn't quite struck him before. Here, tonight, beneath the
      starlight, he would begin. He had already resolved to <em class="calibre8">end</em>
      death, but that wasn't enough, nowhere near enough. <em class="calibre8">Death
      should not be</em>, he thought, <em class="calibre8">and never should have
      been</em>. There was hope, here, in this world of Time-Turners and
      Philosopher's Stones and phoenixes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry would not stop with saving the living. He would not stop
      with saving Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry would not stop until he had saved every single one, wizard
      or witch or Muggle or house-elf or goblin or centaur or anything
      else he couldn't imagine, rescued everyone who had ever fallen into
      Death's hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry would not stop until he realised that dream, until he
      could watch the Sun go out alongside every single person the human
      species - and any other thinking species - had ever lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We don't have to put up with it. Nobody, ever, will have to
      spare a moment to think about the ones who died before they could
      be helped. I refuse to lose, or to have lost.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expecto, PATRONUM!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there was light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Granger took her first breath for the second time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's body was bathed in silver fire, even as Harry
      staggered. Some of the life and magic he'd just lost would never
      return to him, he knew. It wasn't much, barely even noticeable, but
      what he had lost would never return. That sacrifice was
      permanent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell touched Hermione's forehead with the Stone,
      and though Harry's Patronus faded away, some of that silver fire
      yet remained about her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sphere of stars slowly faded away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then two unfamiliar voices spoke, "Avada Kedavra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter and David Monroe collapsed to the floor, dead.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
