<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>34. Minds Names and Faces - Minds, Names and Faces Chapter 8: Shut Up And Multiply, Part One, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="34. Minds Names and Faces"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Shut Up And Multiply, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius Black was feeling distinctly out of his depth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't <em class="calibre8">know</em> his godson. Dumbledore had offered to
      introduce him to Harry before, but he'd refused. The boy had never
      known his parents - <em class="calibre8">thanks to you</em>, said the voice that
      even the supposed Philosopher's Stone hadn't silenced - and Sirius
      hadn't thought he'd want to meet the man who'd consigned them to
      death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now here Harry was, and everything was happening so quickly
      - better than Sirius had thought it would, he'd thought Harry would
      hate him, but even so...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Sirius burst through the doors of Godric's Hollow, horror
      rising inside him. It took him three tries to cast Lumos.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The ceiling had sagged dangerously, and the centre had given
      way entirely. The room was caked in plaster dust, and a liquid that
      seemed black as pitch in the wandlight.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">James Potter lay somehow untouched by rubble, his glasses
      still on, spread-eagled. His wife lay some distance away from him,
      on top of the collapsed ceiling, the splinters of her wand still
      clutched in broken fingers.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was easier than it had ever been for Sirius to turn his mind
      away. Ever since "Quirinus Quirrell" (though as far as Sirius was
      concerned, if that was the man's real name, his was Elvendork) had
      used what was apparently the Philosopher's Stone on him, he'd felt
      more <em class="calibre8">whole</em> somehow, and certain memories were staying at
      the back of his mind where they belonged. Happier thoughts were
      coming to him more easily now than they had since before
      Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He <em class="calibre8">had</em> thought about what Harry was trying to do now,
      after that night, in a manner of speaking. He'd wanted to make
      James' and Lily's deaths <em class="calibre8">not have happened</em>, but he had
      never really thought that he could <em class="calibre8">do</em> anything after the
      fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast the Patronus Charm, and Sirius felt a surge of pride
      - it was an extremely advanced spell for an eleven-year-old.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It should have been impossible, but the girl was
      <em class="calibre8">breathing</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Vitalis Revelio</em>," Sirius murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell was still looking absently at some part of the floor,
      which had shown a cluster of stars, his mind clearly elsewhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment, Sirius's ears popped, and he felt the
      unmistakable sensation of an Anti-Apparition Jinx failing. He
      frowned. The Jinx on this place was only one-way, so there was no
      reason for Quirrell to-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Avada Kedavra</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Killing Curse hit Quirrell in the back from point-blank
      range.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius dived aside in an agile motion, firing curses in an
      indiscriminate arc.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bolts bent in mid-air and curved around the figures of two
      unfamiliar women.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first was dark-haired and pale, wrapped in a heavy black
      felt cloak of an unrecognisable style. She held no wand, but bore
      in her hand a dark staff of twisted wood. Her face was young, but
      her eyes were deep, dark and old. Despite her physical youth, she
      gave off an impression of terrible age, an ancient quality that
      whispered of forgotten magic and old curses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beside her was a woman who looked just as youthful. She was
      blonde and willowy, and held a long and slender wand. Despite her
      unassuming appearance, the sense of magic about her was strong, and
      her grey eyes were cold and sharp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced back towards the altar, and his heart
      stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His godson, Harry James Potter, lay on the ground. His eyes were
      open and glassy, his mouth open, glasses askew. He looked almost
      exactly like James Potter had, that night-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Recognise this one, Perry?" asked the dark-haired figure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Might as well- ah!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius roared and loosed a blistering bolt of lightning at the
      woman, who stepped back and barely caught it on the end of her
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blonde recovered quickly and slashed her own wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius staggered backwards, snarling, a chunk of his shielding
      torn away. He rolled his shoulders and adjusted his grip. He was
      out of practice, but he had once been able to out-duel Mad-Eye two
      times out of three. Harry's murderers would <em class="calibre8">not</em> escape
      alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dark-haired one paid no attention. She gestured at
      Quirrell's body, and a wand rose up from it and flew into her hand.
      A black ribbon tied to it vanished in a flash of flame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius circled his left hand, and a blue haze arose before him.
      He dodged left and brought his wand around in a wide sweep-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blonde witch clicked her fingers and suddenly Sirius was
      flat on his back, winded. He sprang to his feet and rolled aside,
      hurling curses that winked out of existence or splashed harmlessly
      against shields.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the older-seeming witch tapped her staff on the ground and
      disrupted most of his wards. Sirius ducked another Killing Curse
      and barely blocked an unfamiliar brown hex. This was
      <em class="calibre8">insane</em>, there were barely a dozen wizards in the entire
      world on this power level-<br class="calibre4"/>
      His fingers numbed on his wand as he struggled to parry another
      curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He set his teeth. He wasn't ready to join James and Lily -
      <em class="calibre8">and Harry</em>, he thought with another burst of guilt - just
      yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remembering why we retired, B?" asked the blonde idly. "It's
      just no <em class="calibre8">fun</em> any more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a white-blue flash, and Sirius dropped to one knee
      helplessly, his resolve gone. It was hopeless. It was almost like
      trying to fight Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Darkness began to build around the edges of his vision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">OoOoO</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was underwater, and underground, and on fire, and in the sky,
      and amongst the stars...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a sensation that he recognised from the Cloak of
      Invisibility, like touching his wand for the first time, like an
      inaudible song.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a single absurd moment, Harry thought he might have been in
      the afterlife.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then his brain caught up to him. <em class="calibre8">So this is what a Horcrux
      feels like.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The adrenaline - well, Harry didn't <em class="calibre8">have</em> adrenaline any
      more, but that was still what it felt like - was fading away. With
      a jolt, Harry realised that the stars were <em class="calibre8">all</em> around him,
      all three-hundred and sixty degrees.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">May I point out</em>, said Harry's Inner Slytherin, <em class="calibre8">that
      we just DIED?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was difficult to have any sense of immediacy, here amongst
      the stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Mr. Potter?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Professor? Is that you?</em> said Harry in his thoughts. The
      phrase that came to him to describe the experience was "thinking
      loudly". Harry could sense the Horcrux system now, notice Professor
      Quirrell's presence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I can't imagine who</em> else <em class="calibre8">you might have been
      expecting!</em> There was a definite sense of agitation in
      Quirrell's... thought? <em class="calibre8">It is imperative that we return</em>
      NOW. <em class="calibre8">I suggest-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I have an idea</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry focussed on the inaudible song of the Resurrection Stone
      in the back of his mind, and visualised the scene in Professor
      Quirrell's workshop, willing himself to be present.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">OoOoO</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius slammed everything he had into the strongest shield he
      could to block an area-effect curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Sirius!</em> sounded Harry's voice. <em class="calibre8">Let me in!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">JUST DO IT!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was unmistakably Harry, and even if it wasn't Sirius didn't
      exactly have anything to lose. He consciously relaxed his
      defences-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">OoOoO</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inhabiting his godfather's body was a <em class="calibre8">strange</em>
      experience. He was too tall, and the wand didn't suit him-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry aimed Sirius' wand at Professor Quirrell's body,
      remembered Hermione's resurrection, and shouted, "<em class="calibre8">Expecto
      Patronum</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It felt almost sacrilegious using the Patronus Charm so
      <em class="calibre8">casually</em>, as a <em class="calibre8">combat tactic</em>, but Harry's inner
      models of Alastor Moody and Professor Quirrell were glaring at him
      for that thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The magic had flowed from Harry, not Sirius.
      <em class="calibre8">Interesting</em>, said Ravenclaw, <em class="calibre8">that implies-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">SHUT UP,</em> hissed the rest of Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius's shield fell, and two curses winged towards him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They burst into rainbow sparks as the Defence Professor rushed
      forwards through the air like a ghost given form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pointed Sirius's wand again, and cast the Patronus Charm
      at himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry woke up in his own body. No magic had been lost, that
      time, but it hadn't been pleasant. C-L-O-A-K, he signed in his
      pouch, and drew the Cloak of Invisibility over himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind him, discreetly, wards rose up around the altar where
      Hermione lay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That seemed... too <em class="calibre8">nice</em> for Professor Quirrell...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dark-haired witch rolled her eyes. "This one won't stay dead
      either, then." Her accent was ever-so-slightly unusual, not quite
      identifiable. She looked young, but she had a sort of air of age
      that felt like some kind of magic...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You Riddles are like bloody cockroaches," muttered the blonde,
      fingering her wand. "Any idea how they're managing it, B?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"B" shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horror was slowly dawning in Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What am I seeing?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two powerful Dark witches, young-looking but old-seeming, who
      showed up immediately after Professor Quirrell stole the
      Philosopher's Stone...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, one does not survive six centuries without acquiring
      at least a little cunning..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over to Sirius Black, who was kneeling down,
      holding onto his wand in one hand and his head in the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't convinced that even Professor Quirrell could defeat
      Baba Yaga and Perenelle Flamel together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">OoOoO</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell whirled in midair, past a barrage of magic, firing
      Killing Curses mixed with spells Harry couldn't recognise in a
      constant stream. Quirrell's hidden workshop was already blasted to
      pieces, the wooden walls incinerated or in some cases somehow
      <em class="calibre8">melted</em>, looking more like old candle wax than wood. The
      moonlight glowed faintly over the battleground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Killing Curses flashed against Quirrell time and again, but he
      paid no mind. <em class="calibre8">The Patronus</em>, Harry realised with a jolt.
      Professor Quirrell had been holding the Stone when Harry had cast
      his spell. Thinking about it, it was odd that that hadn't triggered
      the resonance - although <em class="calibre8">technically</em>, the spell had been
      cast at a dead body, and the Stone had rendered it non-magical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expecto Patronum," Harry murmured once more, and the silver
      figure burst into existence, just in case any stray Killing Curses
      came towards him or Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell jabbed his wand into the sky like a sword,
      and suddenly all of reality seemed to focus on one point of baleful
      blue at the end of his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a deep, resounding note, and then the two witches'
      shields splintered and they were blown backwards onto the
      grass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was forcibly reminded once more just how
      <em class="calibre8">un</em><em class="calibre8">balanced</em> the power ladder was. <em class="calibre8">How
      does</em> <em class="calibre8">magical power even work?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blonde - Perenelle, presumably - rolled out of the way of a
      Killing Curse and loosed a jet of pitch blackness at Professor
      Quirrell, who dismissed it with a flick of the hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other witch made a circling motion with her staff, and
      Harry's limbs felt suddenly heavy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell plunged out of the sky, but then he seemed to fall
      <em class="calibre8">faster</em> than gravity would have pulled him, and he slammed
      into the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The earth burst up around the Defence Professor, throwing Harry
      off his feet so hard that a Muggle would have broken bones. The
      altar alone remained entirely undisturbed, but the ground shuddered
      and creaked as far around as Harry could see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Now he's just showing off,</em> muttered Harry's Inner
      Critic (which had decided that other Tom Riddle copies were fair
      game).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The earthquake had caught the two witches off-guard, and
      Quirrell shot back up into the sky and kept up his pattern of
      Killing Curses, simultaneously loosing other magic that seemed
      beyond even them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Killing Curse, Professor Quirrell had once told Harry, was
      amongst the most useful spells in existence, but not the be-all and
      end-all of duelling. It was invariably lethal and unblockable,
      true, but it was also extremely easy to dodge, being relatively
      slow-moving and bright green. Additionally, even if one happened to
      be sufficiently indifferent to cast it repeatedly, it was quite a
      serious drain on one's magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even despite this, Quirrell's newfound immunity to the Killing
      Curse and "mysterious" powers of flight seemed to be letting him
      hold his own against both witches at the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Baba Yaga and Perenelle spoke the same incantation together,
      reminding Harry uncomfortably of what the Weasley twins had tried
      against the troll, and Professor Quirrell was forced to raise a
      white circular ward to block it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In that brief opening, Baba Yaga touched one finger to her arm
      and hissed "<em class="calibre8">Innervate</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's scar burned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world flashed sickly yellow, and Professor Quirrell was
      flicked sharply through the air, dipping dangerously before
      managing to stabilise himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was when Harry saw the most terrifying thing he had ever
      seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell looked frightened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry realised what a <em class="calibre8">complete idiot</em> he'd been.
      He'd been in the Horcrux system, and hadn't realised what was
      missing. <em class="calibre8">Riddles</em>, the blonde woman had said, and she
      <em class="calibre8">hadn't been talking about Harry</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Granger was standing, pointing a bone-white wand at
      Professor Quirrell, smiling widely, her eyes shining,
      ever-so-faintly, crimson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord had risen again.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
