<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>18. A Strip of Cloth - A Strip of Cloth, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="18. A Strip of Cloth"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Disclaimer</span>: This is a fan-fiction of LessWrong's
      "Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality," which is in turn a
      fan-fiction of J. K. Rowling's "Harry Potter" series. I own the
      rights to neither. Needless to say, "HPMOR" is one of the greatest
      works of fan-fiction ever written. Far more ground-breaking than
      certain twilighty shades of greyish type stuff... You
      <em class="calibre7">learn</em> things from it! It is it's own science pedagogy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>WARNING</span>: SPOILERS for Chapter 81 of LessWrong's
      "Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality"!</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Premise</span>: In Chapter 81, Hermione Granger swore
      service to House Potter. In another reality (in accordance with
      multiverse theory), Harry doesn't allow it. (I've included text
      from the original HPMOR in an attempt to make this work in
      LessWrong's canon. Please forgive me, LessWrong. *grovel*)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-oOoOo-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes," whispered the voice of Hermione Granger. "I c-can
      talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his eyes again and saw her face, now looking at
      him. It didn't say anything like what he thought Hermione was
      feeling, faces couldn't say anything that complicated, all facial
      muscles could do was contort themselves into knots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-H-Harry, I-I'm so, I'm so -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up," Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"s-s-sorry -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you'd never met me on the train you wouldn't be in any
      trouble right now. So shut up," said Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A slight intake of breath. "But Harry - that's a hyp" - she
      hiccuped - "hypothesis contrary to fact. I app-p-reciate your help,
      really I do, but you aren't thinking rationally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her face constricted with tension, etched with pain and fear of
      the plum-colored enemy surrounding them, of the <em class="calibre7">wrongness</em>
      hovering within meters of the desperate trio.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But her eyes -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's brown eyes were wide and round with worry for
      <em class="calibre7">him</em>, for Harry Potter, the Boy-Who-Lived, rumored to be
      the next Dark Lord. Amid these concentric circular hollows of
      torture, she was worried for <em class="calibre7">him</em>. She had even cited the
      "hypothesis contrary to fact" fallacy, wherein Harry had falsely
      stated that he was the sole cause of her appearance in the
      Wizengamot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had been right to correct him, for Harry was not in his
      right mind. His dark side was slowly being illuminated by the
      memory of a setting sun, 7.5% of which represented the Light side
      of humanity, that rare piece to which Hermione Granger
      belonged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed against the sudden dryness in his throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both of you stop being silly," Professor McGonagall said in her
      firm Scottish accent (it was strange how much that helped). "Mr.
      Potter, hold out your wand so that Miss Granger's fingers can touch
      it. Miss Granger, repeat after me. Upon my life and magic -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did as he was bid, thrusting his wand forward to touch
      Hermione's fingers; and then Hermione's faltering voice said, "Upon
      my life and magic -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's heart rose to his throat, beating a rapid staccato that
      Lucius Malfoy might have heard, had he cared to listen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry would twine his life with Hermione's, a pair of snakes
      winding the caduceus, an HP and HG double-helix built to dominate
      (er, optimize) the planet, then the sun, the galaxies, and finally
      Death itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I swear service to the House of Potter -" said Professor
      McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall was swearing Hermione into servitude? To
      <em class="calibre7">him?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WAIT!" he bellowed. Professor McGonagall turned toward him in
      astonishment. Hermione kept her eyes locked on his, the same
      worried look trained upon him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Why did you stop her?</em> demanded Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hermione could never be a servant to House Potter!
      Gryffindor</em> seethed. <em class="calibre7">She is our equal!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But whenever she bothered us, we could order her to shut
      up,</em> Slytherin suggested reasonably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can't believe you just thought that</em>, Hufflepuff
      huffed, and Gryffindor nodded his ephemeral support.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Think,</em> interrupted Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre7">What is the
      likelihood that Hermione would make a good wife?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">SYSTEM ERROR.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Sorry, I won't say "wife" again -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">SYSTEM ERROR</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Right,</em> Ravenclaw cut in hastily. <em class="calibre7">Think FAST,
      McGonagall is starting to open her mouth.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was his best friend. Through Bayesian logic, Harry
      inferred that she was the most likely of his colleagues to remain
      by his side through thick and thin, up and down, light and
      dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a world full of seven billion humans, 7.5% of the population
      possessed the ability to stand up to evil, as indicated in the
      Milgram experiment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Narrow it down</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of that 7.5%, there was a very small fraction who could hold
      their own in any debate with Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Narrow it down</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of that tiny percentage, only one had accumulated life
      experience alongside Harry. Well, perhaps two, but Harry doubted
      whether Draco Malfoy would pass the Milgram experiment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Narrow it down</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I</em> have <em class="calibre7">narrowed it down,</em> Ravenclaw retorted.
      <em class="calibre7">Hermione is a clear winner.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Narrow it further,</em> said Gryffindor and Hufflepuff
      simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">. . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Do you love her?</em> asked Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sounds were coming from Professor McGonagall's mouth, but very
      slow and low to account for the speed at which Harry's mind was
      racing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well?</em> Hufflepuff prodded. <em class="calibre7">Do you?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You know the answer to that question</em>, Harry
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world caught up with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" . . . Mr. Potter?" Professor McGonagall finished, but Harry
      had missed the beginning of the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need a strip of cloth about a meter long," Harry announced.
      Hermione was looking at him as though he'd grown another head,
      though her expression still registered faint worry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Wulfric Percival Brian Dumbledore tossed something into
      the air. A blue-and-yellow striped necktie ribboned down to Harry,
      who caught it just before it could touch the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, I'm going to need your hand," Harry said steadily,
      though his insides were doing back flips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A quivering hand rose as far as it could from the chains binding
      it to the interrogation chair. Harry's fingers shook as he tied a
      loose knot around Hermione's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyes rose to his, and the worry was suddenly replaced by
      surprise and suspicion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He tore his gaze away from hers, putting all of his
      concentration into tying an elaborate knot around his own hand.
      Harry's mother had watched enough television romances for him to
      have subconsciously memorized the words for this particular
      ceremony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry covered his hand with his, then looped the remaining
      fabric around their connecting fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter," Professor McGonagall whispered, but Harry cut her
      short with a rough shake of his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Phosphorescent butterflies pitched cartwheels in his stomach. He
      opened his mouth:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, Harry Potter, take thee, Hermione Granger, to my wedded
      wife"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">SYSTEM ERROR</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's voice began to tremble. "Till death us depart"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dementor in the corner rose slightly, as though in response
      to the invocation of its purpose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes sliced toward the wound in the world, and the thing
      shuddered before retreating into its corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione laced her fingers through Harry's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And thereto I plight thee my troth," he finished. Harry stared,
      eyes riveted to the place where their hands joined. It felt as
      though sparks flew each time her fingers trembled against his.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes were larger than ever, and her lips quivered
      slightly as she began the traditional response:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, Hermione Granger, take thee, Harry Potter, to my wedded
      husband -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">SYSTEM ERROR</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Shut up</em> <em class="calibre7">and enjoy the moment</em>, scolded
      Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's voice was soft. "Till death us depart -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her fingers were soft, though a bit sweaty. "And thereto I
      plight thee my troth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt Hermione's eyes tugging at him, and with some
      reluctance, he met them:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You know what comes next</em>, she told him with her
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed. There was no getting out of this one. He bent toward
      her -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- and in Hogwarts Castle, every girl and boy with any hint of
      romance in their heart held their breath -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- Harry closed his eyes, and planted his lips on Hermione's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Soft and supple, her lips. Warm and inviting, her breath. A
      chain reaction had begun when their mouths touched, working through
      Harry's cheeks and down his throat and into his fingertips, his
      toes, his stomach, through the roots and to the tips of each dark
      brown hair on his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was on fire. He was Fawkes. He could even hear the Phoenix
      cheering him on from its perch on the Headmaster's shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had no idea whether Hermione was experiencing the same
      reaction, but based on her fingers tightening around his, he
      guessed the affirmative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To hell with the pessimistic planning fallacy, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cold air brushed past Harry's lips, and his eyes slowly opened.
      He felt drugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahem!" said the old wizard from his podium of dark stone. "This
      session has carried on quite considerably, and if it is not
      dismissed soon, some of us may miss their entire luncheon. The law
      of this matter is clear. You have already voted on the terms of the
      bargain, and Lord Malfoy cannot legally decline it. As we have far
      exceeded our allotted time, I now, in accordance with the last
      decision of the survivors of the eighty-eighth Wizengamot, adjourn
      this session."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard tapped the rod of dark stone three times.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You fools!" shouted Lucius Malfoy. The white hair was shaking
      as though in a wind, the face beneath was pale with fury. "Do you
      think you'll get away with what you've done today? Do you think
      that girl can try to murder my son and escape unscathed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">. . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Back in Hogwarts Castle, the romantically inclined student body
      finally released their breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the same instant, in the Mighty Ancient Hall of the
      Wizengamot, a young man's mind reeled with new uses for his
      time-turner, tucked innocently beneath his robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was just calculating the odds of convincing Hermione to
      follow him into his chest cavern, when the toad-like pink-makeup
      woman, whose name Harry could no longer remember, stood up from her
      seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, of course not," she said with a sickening smile. "After
      all, the girl <em class="calibre7">is</em> still a murderess, and I think the
      Ministry shall be watching her affairs quite closely - it hardly
      seems wise that she should be allowed to wander the streets, after
      all -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was fed up at this point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-oOoOo-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">END alternative reality skew, continue Chapter 81.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
