<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Price of the Phoenix - Hermione Granger and the Price of the Phoenix</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Price of the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre4">
<div class="calibre4" id="chapter-1"><!-- chapter management -->
      <div class="calibre4" role="complementary">

      <p class="calibre7"><span>April 8th, 1992</span></p>
      <p class="calibre7">He woke in the dark, heart racing in terror. There was something
      he needed to do. Think and remember. My name is… what? Were they
      that thorough? They took that too?</p>
      <p class="calibre7"><span>Stop. Check in. What do you remember?</span></p>
      <p class="calibre7">I took their stories. I wrote them, for myself. For my fame and
      fortune. Because I deserved something. I deserved so much more than
      the hand I was dealt. I made sure that they wouldn’t find me: I
      erased all memory of myself.</p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8"><span>Someone did find you</span></em> <span>, a voice in
      his head said.</span></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Someone found you, and they were quite clever indeed.
      Remember that signal you came up with, so that you’d know if
      someone was trying your own tricks on you? Your tongue does not
      hurt, and yet, you can’t remember your own name!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><span>The memory came again, sharp and cutting.</span>
      <em class="calibre8"><span>Bite your tongue!</span></em></p>
      <p class="calibre7">his mother had said. She had said it over and over and</p>
      <em class="calibre8"><span>over</span></em>
      <p class="calibre7">again. But the pain of the memory was strangely blunted. She had
      always spat his first, middle, and last names in a horribly cutting
      fashion just before saying that, and he could not. Remember.
      His.</p>
      <em class="calibre8"><span>Name</span></em> <span>.</span>
      <p class="calibre7">Stop. The mirror. The tattoo on your chest. Read it. It will
      tell you what to do, even if they’ve taken that knowledge out of
      your mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">He climbed out of his sweat-soaked sheets, and staggered to the
      bathroom. His wand was in his hand. Good, he thought. At least they
      left me that.</p>
      <p class="calibre7"><span>“</span> <em class="calibre8"><span>Lumos Maxima,”</span></em></p>
      <p class="calibre7">he said shakily. It took him two more tries for the spell to
      take, and his bathroom was filled with a bright green light. It
      gave his flesh a sickly, corpselike aspect, but it did render the
      words written in flowery, ornate script on his chest completely
      legible.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">“Your name is Gilderoy Laevus Lockhart. You are a wizard. The
      only spell that you can cast in the accepted fashion is Obliviate,
      and you have used this power accordingly. If any of your memories
      have been stolen, you will find help at Gringotts. If for some
      reason you have decided to trust anyone, your mind has been
      tampered with. Check your surroundings and proceed to
      Gringotts.”</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Gilderoy Laevus Lockhart… He liked the sound of that. It fit
      surprisingly well. Yes… He would examine his house for anything out
      of place, or anything missing, and he would read the diary of his
      memories that he kept in his vault at Gringotts carefully, to see
      what else the intruder had done.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">After so long of dreading this day, of preparing for it, he was
      surprisingly glad that it had come. Somehow, it wasn’t hanging over
      his head anymore. And as it had turned out, the cleverer wizard
      hadn’t been that clever at all. If he had, he would have taken
      everything. That was what he had been dreading, that was what he
      had planned so long against. And now, the enemy had turned out to
      be far less cunning than he was. They hadn’t even taken the memory
      of his Gringotts vault, or of his password. They hadn’t really
      thought this through, had they? Not like he had. It was almost
      disappointing, in a way.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">He had his wand, he had his magic, he had a surprising amount of
      memories remaining. He had every advantage, really.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Stop. Don’t let your guard down. Just because one enemy is an
      idiot doesn’t mean everyone will be. Don’t get sloppy. Take every
      precaution.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Yes, he needed to be careful. He needed to remember what he
      could lose. And he had an idea that things would be proceeding
      quite quickly, now. He would be completely lost if he couldn’t keep
      up. Perhaps it was finally time to return to Hogwarts. And this
      time, they</p>
      <em class="calibre8"><span>would</span></em> <span>give him the welcome that he
      deserved.</span>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre7"><span>June 13th, 1992</span></p>
      <p class="calibre7">She slowly pulled herself out of the burning rubble, shooting
      pains gradually disappearing as the mountain troll in her blood
      reformed her torn and beaten flesh. The explosion had been sudden
      and fierce. None of the magical warning systems had so much as
      uttered a squeak of protest before the cacophony, and she had seen
      nothing at all out of place.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She should have insisted, should have made her lover undergo the
      ritual once they knew there was even the barest chance that the
      Stone could be lost to them. And now, though she had long ago
      promised herself that the past was the past, unable to be changed
      even by magic, she couldn’t help feeling a twinge of regret. There
      were so few people on this Earth that she actually liked. So few
      who could keep up their end of an interesting conversation, who
      could understand her, who could satisfy her utterly. And now, there
      was one less.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She quickly put aside her regrets, however. After this long, she
      was nothing if not pragmatic. And, now, she was no longer
      constrained by the whims of the one she had loved.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She had seen the lifeless body, not of the woman she had met so
      long ago, in another lifetime, but the body that had housed the
      same soul. The body that had brought her to pleasures undreamed of,
      even when she’d been far from an innocent, so long ago. The mind
      that, ever so occasionally, came up with something new and
      marvelous to liven her long days. The soul that she had, truly,
      loved.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She was, in fact, tempted to resist this. But, she knew it was
      futile. She could get quite angry about her lover’s death, if she
      let herself. But she didn't like herself when she was angry. Anger
      had only led to loss, for her, ever since that day long ago, when
      she had lost all.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">If there was a method for truly returning from death, the
      knowledge of it had eluded her all these long years. She had
      researched countless possibilities, and none of them would quite
      get one there. Well, there was a method that might serve, but her
      lover’s ancestors would be anonymous dust by now.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">No, best to get this over with. She would miss her lover, but
      she knew from experience that she would move on, and so she saw no
      reason to wait. Yet another life would begin for her now, and even
      if she never regained the Stone, she was in her favorite Form,
      which was quite durable indeed, now, with the carefully managed
      addition of one troll and one dragon.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">And, the Stone was last at Hogwarts, which was as good a place
      as any to begin. After all, if recent trends were to be trusted,
      they would soon need a new Defense Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She felt a wide and mischievous grin forming on her face, as she
      considered the shape of the future.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">She was Baba Yaga the Undying once more, and she would have her
      vengeance.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre7">He dreamed of happier times: The unmitigated joy of discovering
      that he was special, that he could do magic. A shouted name:</p>
      <em class="calibre8"><span>SLYTHERIN!</span></em>
      <p class="calibre7">- like being seen and instantly judged worthy. And a snakey
      riddle, like a long awaited reward.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Another fragment that somehow brought the smell of musty
      parchment:</p>
      <em class="calibre8"><span>Baba Yaga the Undying</span></em>
      <p class="calibre7">- someone else who understood, a kindred spirit. Someone to seek
      out, and learn from.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Learning, always learning, more and more, at a dizzying pace.
      Soaking in all the things he could do, all the magnificent
      specialness. Finally succeeding, finally finding the snake, the
      giant snake, Slytherin’s Basilisk, the snake he could talk to.
      Knowing that he was a worthy Heir of Slytherin. Learning so much,
      discovering that magic was not at all like he had thought it was.
      Seeing the patterns and the connections, so obvious once you saw
      what it was you were actually looking at. Triumph that was tinged
      with something elusive, something unremembered. He had learned not
      to trust the unmixed blessing, but he couldn’t remember why that
      was so.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Knowing that he was smart enough to fix all broken things, and
      realizing exactly what he needed to do. Delighting in the most
      cunning idea he had ever had, the plan that he would hatch to gain
      power and reshape the entire world in his image.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Learning to spar. The fluid graceful dance of two opponents,
      equally matched, neither taking the openings that they knew to be
      traps. The economy of motion, the effortless flips, the joy of the
      dance that could last until utter exhaustion set in. An old man
      telling him that he had done well, that he had mastered the style.
      There was something missing there too. Something he had known once,
      about that man. Something important. File the strangeness away for
      later. It may be key.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Always learning. Learning things that no one in the world knew
      anymore. Figuring out the puzzles left by clever wizards for clever
      wizards. Triumph, and again, something else. Missing pieces, always
      missing pieces. File it for later. It always makes sense in the
      end.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">Hearing words brought to him by another, and knowing, with
      crystalline certainty, what he needed to do. Knowing that he would
      be the first to defeat Fate itself. Setting out, already
      anticipating the shaping of his equal.</p>
      <p class="calibre7"><span>Sleeping inside an emerald, Tom Riddle dreamed.</span></p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre7"><span>June 14th, 1992</span></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">The feeling of emptiness that filled him up was so profound
      that it left no room even for lies.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8"><span>Everyone was dead.</span></em></p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Everyone was dead, and it had all been futile from the
      beginning.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7">The Scion of Malfoy, last of his Most Ancient and Noble House,
      followed the enemy of his family, emptiness in his mind, and
      emptiness in his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">One thing echoed dully in his thoughts, though. One question
      that hadn’t consciously registered when he was asked it, and if it
      had, it still wouldn’t have quite made sense.</p>
      <em class="calibre8"><span>Lying or murder, lying or murder, which is
      worse?</span></em>
      <p class="calibre7">He knew on some level that most would unthinkingly say that
      murder was the worse crime, and that many lies were completely
      innocent. He had, in fact, lied quite often, sometimes at the
      encouragement of his father. Who was dead now. Along with his
      world.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">His father, who was dead, had also told him that he wasn’t to
      murder until he was at least of legal age, and had successfully
      misled a worthy enemy at least three times. He was also quite clear
      that nothing of the sort should ever be traceable to Malfoy house.
      This didn’t seem to matter all that much anymore, because his
      father was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The boy listlessly followed Headmistress McGonagall, his
      family’s enemy, through the Gringotts travel office, because there
      was nothing else to do, because everyone was dead. If he could have
      summoned the energy to answer the question that was running through
      his head, he would have said lies were worse, though he wouldn’t
      have been able to say why.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">As they proceeded to the section of the office for portkeys to
      somewhere called Australia, he felt no curiosity about the journey.
      Perhaps Headmistress McGonagall would kill him at the end. Everyone
      else was dead, after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">The long tug of the international portkey made no impression on
      him. He sat numb through the carriage ride, completely ignoring the
      coachman’s insolent attempts at conversation. The ride in the lift,
      novel though it was, did not break the numbness.</p>
      <p class="calibre7">It was not until the door in front of him opened, and the woman
      he had seen only in pictures said his father’s name in a voice he
      had never heard before that it broke, and suddenly he was sobbing
      in her arms.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre7">His darling daughter Luna, light of his life, had discovered
      that it was so much more interesting for her to walk around the
      house standing on her hands. Despite several early falls, she had
      gotten quite good at it, and he had never really liked that vase
      anyway. Who was he to stand in the way of youthful exuberance?
      Besides, he had his writing to keep up with, and with the
      leadership of the</p>
      <em class="calibre8"><span>Prophet</span></em> <span>in disarray, demand had never
      been so high.</span>
      <p class="calibre7">As he read through the final draft of the true story of the
      defeat of He Who Must Not Be Named, he heard a distant crash, and
      then the familiar high melodic tones of his daughter’s Gift. He
      immediately grabbed the nearest quill and scrap of parchment, and
      began to write:</p>
      <p class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">The old snake and the young snake, the sleeping snake, the
      too cunning snake. All the twisty little snakes. All at the castle,
      all vexing the prince.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre7">While he ran off to help his daughter brush herself off,
      Xenophilius pondered this prophecy. A plague of serpents, but upon
      which castle? No, too simple, too literal. But the answer would
      come to him in the end, he knew. It would come to him, and by
      Merlin, it would be a wonderful story.</p>
      <!--/main--></div>
    </div>
  

</div></body></html>
