<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits - Significant Digits Chapter 1: Frontloading Mysteries, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Frontloading Mysteries</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Welcome! It is highly recommended you check out the updated
      and properly-formatted version of this story (and some other
      goodies, like a glossary) at anarchyishyperbole dot com. I hope you
      enjoy it.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Ninety percent of everything was terrible. This was also true
      for people: ninety percent of them were dumb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reg Hig contemplated this unhappy fact as he stared at a copy of
      the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>. The headline read, <em class="calibre7">UNITY
      APPROACHES.</em> Underneath, a smiling duo of clear importance were
      dipping their heads in identical bows before a dozen witches and
      wizards in trailing robes. The Tower and the Goddess, adding
      another country to their growing global hegemony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was tempting to crumple the paper in one angry fist, or
      perhaps to burn it into theatrical ashes. But he intended to
      scrutinize the lead story carefully, and he was certainly not going
      to buy a second copy of this propaganda sheet. The <em class="calibre7">Daily
      Prophet</em> had been a mouthpiece of the British ruling class
      since the time of his grandfather, and it was no different these
      days, now that a new Dark Lord and Lady had taken control.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was almost comical the way each new Dark Lord followed the
      same playbook. The first step was to eliminate the main opposition,
      through assassination or spellcraft. The second step was to stack
      the local Thing (in Britain, it was the Wizengamot) with their
      followers. The third step was to take control of the leading
      newspaper. And last of all, almost as an afterthought, they would
      take over the local Ministry of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, Reg thought, it certainly made sense to use a
      tried-and-true method. History showed the wisdom. At the height of
      the Reign of the Eleusinian Mysteries, Sulla the Fortunate marched
      on Rome and took power by force, wresting it from the Optimates in
      the name of the Muggle masses. He ruled with absolute power. Forty
      years later, a successor did the same thing, championing the Muggle
      cause in the Senate and seizing power by force. Twenty years after
      that… well, you get the picture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All else equal, a winning move would stay a winning move...
      until and unless you changed the rules. That's why the third
      successor of Sulla the Fortunate had quietly murdered all of his
      opposition, and had launched centuries of tyranny. Augustus Caesar
      had decided to change the rules, and he had done so with admirable
      effectiveness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reg stood from his desk chair, walking to the fireplace. He
      stamped his foot on a bright-green bellows at the fireplace
      entrance, barely breaking stride as he stepped into the flare of
      green flame and said, "Westphalian Council."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief moment as he walked from the travel room into
      the council chamber itself. For obvious reasons of security, the
      Floo network was not connected directly to a place of such power
      and discretion as the Westphalian Council's meeting chamber, or
      with the offices of any of the councilors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Walking into the chamber, through a shower of Thieves' Downfall,
      Reg saw that there was only one other councilor present, sitting
      behind one of the tiny desks. Limpel Tineagar was a gangly woman,
      and she always looked a trifle silly folded up on the little chairs
      of the meeting chamber. As she leaned forward to peer at a
      parchment, her limbs seem to be too long and thin. Limpel resembled
      nothing so much as a robed spider.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Reg," she said warmly, "how are you this morning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," he replied, walking down the tiers until he was on
      the level below her. He was almost a foot shorter than her, and if
      he had tried to take advantage of a rare opportunity to loom over
      someone by standing next to her, it would have seemed ridiculous to
      them both. Power should not be obvious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assume you've heard of the French capitulation?" she asked,
      her tone less cheerful. "The cowards fall, one by one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is why I am here," he said. "We must call a meeting, and
      we must discuss what the Americas will do. Inaction is no longer an
      option - not with Thing after Thing formally agreeing to the
      darkest of rituals! If we wait much longer, then it will be too
      late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A preview of your speech?" Limpel asked, her mouth twisting
      with amusement. She was a cynic, and had no native passion in her.
      "You rouse me with your stirring words."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reg frowned slightly, and leaned forward, putting his hands on
      her desk and looking at her with frank directness. He was not an
      intimidating man, he knew. Short and ill-favored, he had a broad
      face with a plum nose and dark eyes. The dense black stubble around
      his mouth was irregular and resistant to every razor and charm. He
      was not charismatic and he was not scary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he was <em class="calibre7">very</em> persuasive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's no joke, Limpel. Blocking the international statute only
      delayed Britain for a few years. Europe has now agreed to the
      Tower's demands almost as a whole, saving only the brave
      Cappadocians. France has already begun putting in place the
      necessary procedures to comply with the treaty. Thus far, it's only
      the harmless things - Healer's Kits and all that - but it won't be
      too much longer before Safety Poles are set up in Quiberon,
      Beauxbatons, Aix-en-Provence, and throughout Paris! Brainwashing
      available at the touch of a finger!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reg lifted a finger in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One Thing stands in the way: our council. We've been fighting
      this Atlantean nonsense for centuries, and we're about to lose for
      good. History will mark down this council as the one that failed…
      unless we take a stand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know if you've ever noticed that, in an emergency,
      people in a crowd are slow to help. Someone gets hit by a Quaffle
      and falls into the stands, and everyone just stands back and looks
      shocked. No one in the crowd feels responsible - they're just
      <em class="calibre7">watching</em>. But when there's only one bystander, that person
      knows that it's on them. They have to intervene. And that's us,
      now. That's the Westphalian Council. We've spent years fighting for
      the rights of nonhumans and Muggles! We sent dozens to fight
      Grindelwald, and after Boston, we sent dozens to fight Voldemort.
      We're the only ally of the goblins that hasn't already sold their
      souls to this new Dark Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's us. We're it. And if we fail, then that's the end of
      everything. Goblins in chains, Muggles start dying by the millions,
      and Westphalian Council becomes one more footnote at the bottom of
      the page, reading, '<em class="calibre7">Also destroyed in 1998 was the Westphalian
      Council, a once-important American wizarding union.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Limpel's smirk had left her face, and she was solemn. "You're
      right, of course. Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No need for apologies, Limpel," Reg said, shaking his head and
      leaning back. "Just give me your word that you're with me. The next
      Dark Lord has risen, and we need to stop him. There is no one else…
      we are the battle line, here in this council."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was nodding now, her mouth tight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So this isn't a speech, Limpel, but a request," he said,
      looking her in the eye and speaking with the earnestness of an
      honest man. "Will you help me stop Harry Potter-Evans-Verres,
      before he destroys the world as we know it?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You smile too much, 'Harry,' " Hermione Granger said to
      Nymphadora Tonks, lightly. "For anyone who knows the real fellow,
      it's a dead giveaway. You should spend more time looking serious or
      thoughtful. Alastor says that it's important to put yourself in the
      right mood, and so when he's being Harry he just pretends everyone
      else in the room is a child. He says Harry acts that way anyway,
      and it helps him be the right kind of condescending."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mad-Eye Moody says the meanest things I've ever heard
      <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> say about someone that they love like a son," Tonks
      said. She was running her finger up and down the lightning-bolt
      scar on her forehead. "It would be cute if it wasn't exactly as
      creepy as everything else Mad-Eye does."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shrugged. "I think it's sweet, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pushed through the swinging wooden door as they exited
      Prestidigitation and Practicals. They were already being stared at,
      the moment they stepped out into Diagon Alley but that was okay.
      That was useful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione and Tonks-as-Harry made a beeline for the Safety Pole
      that had been fixed in Diagon Alley nearly two years ago. Their
      pace slowed as word spread. The Goddess was well-known and often
      out in public, but the Tower rarely ever left Hogwarts School for
      Witchcraft and Wizardry. To see him, you normally had to be either
      incredibly important or incredibly ill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was essentially in prison, Hermione reflected, as she
      gingerly moved through the crowd. He was trapped in his rooms at
      Hogwarts, forced to send magical doppelgangers to major events. If
      an official envoy insisted on meeting him in person, and that
      encounter seemed likely to require Harry's unique gifts, then that
      envoy simply had to come visit. As it turned out, this was better
      for everyone, on all counts. Harry was still not known for his
      social skills. There were other benefits, too. For example, the
      arrangement made it impossible for anyone to pressure a fake-Harry
      into an on-the-spot decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ordinarily, Harry himself might have been the one to point out
      the advantages of being forced to confer and consider on any major
      decisions - of being <em class="calibre7">pre-committed</em> to that deliberation.
      It was right out of Schelling's <em class="calibre7">The Strategy of Conflict</em>,
      after all (page 30, her mind automatically supplied).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry couldn't actually understand the whole concept, as
      she'd discovered when she'd tried to talk to him about it. Once
      he'd gotten important enough, he'd simply stopped wanting to leave
      the safety of Hogwart's. His Unbreakable Vow wouldn't permit him to
      "take any chances" with the destruction of the world, and at some
      point he had begun to consider that there was a small chance his
      presence might be necessary to save it. It was a very small chance,
      but it was a chance. He was too unique, perhaps - the single point
      of failure in too many possible systems. Hermione knew that this
      was why he did so much teaching. She had never felt the same
      constraint, though, despite her similar Vow. Was that humility on
      her part… or realism?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unbreakable Vows," Harry had said, when she had tried to
      encourage him to grapple with the situation, "are very effective.
      They don't work like genies in stories - I'm bound by the terms of
      the vow as it was meant, I think, in a way that makes me do my best
      with it. So while I understand what you're saying in the abstract,
      I don't <em class="calibre7">want</em> to want to leave Hogwart's or evade the Vow.
      Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was sad. He was his own jailer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Automatically, Hermione was smiling radiantly and giving small
      nods to people. At this point, basic public relations were on
      autopilot for her. It was easy. Her beauty helped. Maturity would
      probably have evened out her features anyway, but she also got a
      teensy-weensy bit of help from the dark ritual that had infused her
      with the unearthly magnificence of a unicorn. Plus, she'd been a
      world-renowned hero for several years now. As the old adage (and
      Sunshine Army slogan) had it, "Practice makes perfect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank heavens for you," a young woman said, reaching out to
      touch Hermione's arm. The woman looked to be something like thirty,
      but she stood with self-conscious straightness. She was probably
      one of the healed. Hermione nodded at her graciously, and eased
      by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The prickling sensation in her arm began a moment later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She glanced down, and saw a streak of something granular and
      colorless. Hermione's head whipped around, and she scanned for the
      young woman. Gone in the crowd. The prickling had already become a
      burning, and she even thought she could smell smoke. Some of the
      people nearby, already pressing close (which is how this happened,
      she thought) were backing away, their wands coming to hand and fear
      coming to their faces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione ripped the sleeve off of her robe, and scraped some of
      the substance off her skin. As she did so, she heard Tonks-as-Harry
      casting spells, waving her wand and calling, "<em class="calibre7">Protego Totalum!
      Evanesco! Cave Inicum</em>!" But there didn't seem to be any
      further immediate danger, and now the surface of Hermione's arm and
      robe were both burning with an oily black smoke. Even scarier: it
      didn't hurt that badly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She plucked out her own wand, and spared a moment for the
      Fresh-Air Charm; a mint-scented breeze ruffled up around her and
      swept away the smoke. Keep the crowd safe. And she had to keep them
      safe from their own panic. She knew she was just being silly, and
      that she was buying into her own hype, and that wizards were
      essentially immune to crowd crushing (there weren't ever enough
      gathered in one place outside of a Quidditch arena, first of all,
      and wizards were naturally tough), but she couldn't help herself:
      she hunched over her arm and raised her wand to her throat.
      "<em class="calibre7">Sonorus!</em> Everyone, don't worry!" Her amplified voice was
      clear and strong, and accompanied by a reassuring smile. "Stay
      calm." <em class="calibre7">Your arm is burning, and you can't really be seriously
      worried about them</em>. <em class="calibre7">On the other hand,</em> they <em class="calibre7">don't
      regenerate and we have an image to maintain.</em> "Everything is
      all right." <em class="calibre7">It's a powder, not acid, and it doesn't smell like
      Faux Floo. Is this a distraction?</em> She glanced around. Tonks
      was next to her, wand raised, glancing back and forth from her to
      the crowd. The gathered wizards and witches were either frozen in
      place or backing away, with a few taking a cue from her freshening
      charm to put on Bubblehead Charms. No one was taking advantage of
      the disturbance to attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost too late, she saw the black knapsack lying on the ground
      at her feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Waddiwassi!</em>" The knapsack rocketed up into the air as
      Hermione cast the spell on it. It was an incredibly easy and quick
      spell to cast, a light tripping of syllables from the lips to the
      back of the mouth. Twice as fast as <em class="calibre7">depulso</em> and eight
      times as fast as <em class="calibre7">wingardium leviosa -</em> Hermione didn't know
      why anyone would use anything else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a cracking boom that sounded much like a thunderbolt, the
      backpack detonated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks-as-Harry turned to Hermione, even as the boom echoed
      around them and people were screaming, and hissed one angry word.
      "Malfoy."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy Weasley was maybe the best government employee imaginable,
      Harry Potter-Evans-Verres thought to himself. He watched the young
      man admiringly as Percy described the new accords reached within
      the International Magical Trading Standards Body. One could always
      find witches and wizards with the necessary competence and
      leadership, but it was so rare to find someone with actual
      <em class="calibre7">perspective</em> - someone who knew that unexciting things like
      standards for cauldron thickness really and truly mattered, and
      that a three percent increase in the cauldron failure rate meant
      thousands of Galleons in lost wealth (and perhaps even actual loss
      of life, if some poor potion brewer couldn't make it to a Safety
      Pole).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">These attributes are why Percy was effectively in charge of the
      Ministry of Magic from his position as Senior Undersecretary to the
      Minister for Magic. He didn't think about outcomes in terms of
      narratives or story. He thought about them in more absolute terms:
      so many Galleons saved, people saved, options saved. Even better,
      Harry thought, Percy was absolutely loyal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...moved more quickly," the young man was saying, solemnly.
      "These larger Vanishing Cabinets - we're calling them Vanishing
      Rooms - do present a serious security risk, though. And there's a
      risk of splinching, with such a volume, if anyone is inside when
      the shipment goes through. You were absolutely right, though… we
      can move a thousand times as much now. It actually brings up an
      interesting problem. Apparently we're shipping <em class="calibre7">out</em> more
      than we're shipping <em class="calibre7">in</em>. It all comes down to…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reflexively, Harry considered if his appreciation of Percy's
      loyalty was a Voldemort thought, tuning Percy's report on trade
      deficits out of mind for a moment. Was it wrong to consider
      personal loyalty to himself as an inherently valuable trait in an
      ally? Perhaps it was, he thought. It was not consistent with how he
      valued his other lieutenants. Amelia or Mad-Eye would turn against
      him quickly if they thought he was corrupt or evil, and that was
      good. While obstacles in general wouldn't do him much good,
      experience had often shown that he tended to underestimate his own
      biases. Capable allies who could be relied upon to defy him, if
      needed, were invaluable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry went to work, mentally, picking apart the thought and
      turning the instinct to his own use. In his youth, he had treated
      his mental simulation of Voldemort (his "dark side," he remembered
      with amusement) as a closed programming loop that would accept
      input ("This is my problem.") and output an answer ("<em class="calibre7">Try
      killing everyone in your way, maybe?")</em>. That answer would
      sometimes need to be rejected or modified in the fact of contrary
      ethical guidelines, of course, but at its core, he had treated the
      Voldemort thought-patterns as an opaque sort of special
      reasoning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That had been silly, and the huge disadvantages had become
      obvious after a year spent clumsily clomping around the intricate
      plans of two geniuses. He had acted with the absolute
      self-assurance and total obliviousness of a first-year psychology
      student, and it was only thanks to the advantage of actually
      <em class="calibre7">knowing the future</em> that one of those geniuses had managed
      to succeed (almost despite Harry's best ignorant efforts).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, he had spent some time integrating the Voldemort simulation
      into his own psyche, and now routinely examined his thinking to
      critically assess his success. Sunlight is the best disinfectant,
      after all, and he would have been a fool to ignore Amelia's
      concerns ("Young man, if there is a Voldemort in your head, then
      you can either crush it into submission or we can carve it out. The
      choice is yours.") Harry glanced down at the ring on his finger, an
      unadorned metal band.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry returned his full attention to Percy, hoping nothing
      important had been said in the meantime and feeling a little shabby
      about having let his thoughts wander. Fortunately, much of the
      report had been for the benefit of others. Harry had already
      studied sufficient economics, but much of his council was still
      learning the essentials. The education was necessary, since
      economics were a weapon and a tool of state.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...so this is actually to our advantage, and we may be able to
      use it as leverage." Percy concluded. He glanced around the room
      for questions, then settled his rawboned frame back into his chair.
      He was a striking young man, tall and thin with the vivid red
      Weasley hair and freckles. He had once been balding and
      bespectacled, but Harry had taken care of that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Harry said, smiling. "It's always good to have
      another tool to use, should we need it." Truth be told, it probably
      was never going to be useful. It was hard to even say that a trade
      deficit was a bad thing for anyone involved, and that was
      especially true with an economy nearly decoupled from labor. But it
      might be a propaganda point, to be brought up in a negotiation or
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now let us turn to the next item on the agenda," he said,
      glancing down at the parchment. "Amelia, you had Ms. Bogdanov and
      Ms. Covenant meet with their respective Muggle equivalents in the
      Medicines and Health Products Regulatory Agency? How did that go?"
      Ilya Bogdanov and Tilly Covenant were in charge of the Office for
      the Detection and Confiscation of Counterfeit Defensive Spells and
      Protective Objects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not very well, Harry," Amelia Bones said, rising from her seat
      in turn. She was a plain-looking young woman, with a square jaw and
      chestnut hair pulled back into a tight bun. She looked
      (unsurprisingly) much like Susan Bones, her niece. "Bogdanov didn't
      give it a chance, and came to me to tell me that it was, and I
      quote, 'a tragic mistake to think that Muggles should be in charge
      of any part of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement.' She
      specifically mentioned that the Muggles had proposed that anyone
      who tests magical devices should be blinded." Amelia leaned forward
      and glared at Harry. "I told you that this would happen,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. He'd thought they were further along than this.
      "The Muggles didn't mean that the testers should be literally
      blind. A blind study is ju-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A blind study is a study where the examiners keep themselves
      ignorant of the origin of what they're measuring, yes I know,"
      Amelia interrupted, curtly. "You know that and <em class="calibre7">I know that</em>
      but these witches weren't looking for knowledge. They were just
      looking for an excuse not to change their minds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes… 'most people would rather die than think, and many do.'"
      Harry quoted. "But Amelia, we can't just fire the heads of every
      office, just because they're not working with us as smoothly as
      we'd like.". They'd had this argument before. Harry thought it was
      better to have the dozens of recalcitrant officials dragging their
      heels on the inside, rather than agitating on the outside. All the
      real troublemakers might have been decapitated in a single night,
      long ago, but that didn't mean it would be a good idea to give some
      of wizarding Britain's most prominent witches and wizards a direct
      reason to oppose the new regime. Amelia would have none of it,
      though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't have to fire them all. But we fired Shacklebolt, to
      make an example, and it wasn't enough. How about we just demote
      some of this dead weight, instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And get around the Peter Principle? Hm." Harry paused for a
      moment. "You have a point there, actually. Table this now, maybe,
      and we'll work out the possibilities?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia nodded, just as the door burst open. Hermione and Tonks
      strode into the meeting room, clothes still damp from rapidly
      evaporating Thieves' Downfall. Tonks looked furious, and as her
      hair lengthened into her typical shoulder-length, multicolored long
      locks, it framed a iron scowl. Something had gone wrong, it would
      seem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Like all rooms in the Tower, the meeting room was an odd
      quadrangle. It was an odd side-effect of the most important aspect
      of their security protocol, which required the entire Tower complex
      to be shaped as one giant triangle. It was odd, but it did mean
      that entrances could be particularly dramatic, which was useful for
      negotiations. The very shape of the room pointed everyone's
      attention at the narrow wall, where the open door framed an
      irritated Hermione Granger.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, everyone. Sorry for the rude entrance," she said. She
      glanced around at the group, which collectively represented most of
      the power of magical Britain, not to mention the greater part of
      Europe. Her eye paused for a second on Charlevoix, one of her
      Returned and a witch who had been instrumental in the recent French
      agreement. The excitable woman was almost out of her seat in alarm,
      scarred hands clenched on her chair. Hermione's glance communicated
      peace, and Charlevoix's face softened. Hermione turned to Harry,
      who had risen and was waiting patiently for her to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," she said. "Malfoy just blew up a bomb in the middle of
      Diagon Alley. No one was hurt, but dozens could have been injured
      or killed. I know you have a plan, but that couldn't have been part
      of it. What is going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She watched as he absorbed this information. Harry looked
      slightly surprised for a moment, and then his mouth pursed, and
      then his face relaxed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Muggle device that casts <em class="calibre7">deprimo</em>," murmured Percy
      Weasley to the rest of the table. Amelia Bones already seemed to
      know, as did a few others (like the Muggle Liaison), but most had
      seemed uncomprehending. There was quiet murmuring in response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was any property destroyed?" Harry asked, seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks to Hermione," Tonks said indignantly, from her spot
      behind the Goddess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one was hurt and no property destroyed… was it a very small
      bomb? No, you took care of it. Did you put it into a pouch with an
      Undetectable Extension Charm, or something?" He looked
      thoughtful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head. "No. Wait, would that even work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both paused for a second to consider it, but he was the
      first to shake his head. "Not really, I don't think… although it
      might contain the blast and direct its force out of the opening of
      the pouch." He made a note on the margin of the parchment in front
      of him - an agenda to their meeting, she thought. "We should look
      into that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Especially now that Malfoy's started using bombs," Hermione
      said, archly. "Harry, you look like you understand what's going on,
      and that you're not worried. That makes <em class="calibre7">me</em> worried. This
      is a new level, and it could have killed a lot of people. But you
      don't seem to be taking it seriously. Just what is going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, reaching up to tuck a lock of his hair
      back behind his ear. She had noticed that he usually tied it back
      these days, but he'd left it loose this morning. Also, he was
      wearing Muggle clothes - a three-piece grey suit, with a blue silk
      tie. It looked rather well on his short and spare frame, but he
      tended to favor wizard's robes, these days. Were these subtle signs
      of distress at his imprisonment? Maybe he - or his subconscious -
      was feeling the effects of the long confinement. She set the
      thought aside for later consideration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're at war, Hermione. You know that." At least Harry no
      longer looked so sure of himself, although it was probably only
      because he was worried about her. "They're going to keep ramping
      things up until they get a reaction, or until we capitulate on
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric Diggory spoke up from the end of the table, his voice
      kind but firm. "And that doesn't worry you, Harry?" The young auror
      looked skeptical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a plan. We're on track - two new Unspeakables arrived
      with reports just today, and there are new breakthroughs." Harry
      looked around the room. No one looked reassured. "I know I've been
      saying that for a long time-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For years," Tonks interrupted. She sounded frustrated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-I've been saying that for <em class="calibre7">years</em>, yes." Harry smoothly
      continued. "But you have to trust me on this. We can beat Malfoy
      and the whole faction… it will happen." His eyes moved from face to
      face, asking their trust. "There's a plan. It has been extremely
      complicated and unbelievably secret, but very soon now we will beat
      Narcissa, once and for all."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Sometime later, a young man with a lightning-bolt scar on his
      forehead sat down with a sigh on a small wooden stool. He was
      alone, and this room was private, admissible only to him. He could
      slump wearily without worrying about his posture. No one could
      see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In front of him, on another wooden stool identical to his own,
      was a small black box. It was smooth and shiny, marred only by the
      pair of small hinges and the ornate lock that held its lid on. He
      stared at the box sightlessly for a while as he thought, letting
      his eyes glaze over and his mind wander.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat like that for a long time. Eventually, he blinked
      rapidly and returned to himself. He spoke to the box, quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd like to talk. But I won't let you out."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
