<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits - Significant Digits Chapter 18: Protagonists, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18: Protagonists</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Excerpt from a speech given on the floor of the Council of
      Westphalia by Reg Hig:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is not the ideal world, witches and wizards of the Council.
      In the ideal world, we would not be concerned about getting the
      best deal… we would be the ones setting the terms. In the ideal
      world, Merlin would never have used force to master magic-kind in
      every state and nation, and placed us all under ten generations of
      British dominance. In the ideal world, this Council would not even
      be necessary, and our purpose - the protection of the rights of
      every people - <em class="calibre7">every people</em>, I say, Councilor Strongbound,
      goblins and centaurs included! - would be a <em class="calibre7">fait
      accompli</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But we don't live in that ideal world. We live in this world,
      and if we wish to responsibly advise the leaders of the Americas,
      we must view the world with clear eyes. It's not enough to see the
      world as it <em class="calibre7">should be</em>… we must also see how it
      <em class="calibre7">is</em>. If your wand is broken, no amount of wishing and
      bloviating will make it work… you must fix it, and only then can
      you curse your enemies!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We have all seen terrible things, and fought terrible villains.
      I remember the fires of Grindelwald's scum, and the green light of
      Voldemort's death-dealing. This is a fight that is no less serious,
      and it needs serious people. It needs people who can act with a
      free hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I urge this Council to vote in favor of the proposal, and
      empower our negotiators… let them have the power to strike and
      relent as necessary, rather than hobbling them with
      intercontinental shackles. Let us take this moment and seize our
      opportunities! Let us arm our negotiators with a sword, so they may
      strike down our foes and cut through our shackles! I urge you all:
      vote in favor!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence Ludwig Bradwian was special. He'd been special almost
      from the moment he was born. His great-aunt Corliss had been both a
      seer and a famous Keeper for the Wimbourne Wasps, and at the moment
      that Ludwig was born, she had fallen from her broom in a trance -
      letting the Quaffle through the goal - and had prophesied that a
      child of her family had been born who would " bring down a great
      house in a time of endless strife, when all the worlds narrow to
      two." The goal was more widely reported than the prophecy, since it
      was the Chudley Cannons' first goal of the season, but nonetheless
      everyone knew that Lawrence was a child of destiny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps because of this special destiny, Lawrence grew up to be
      a confident boy. He had a poise about him that translated into
      natural leadership. Not many children had his sort of
      self-awareness, or his willingness to stand out from the crowd.
      It's often a sign of a difficult home life - even of abuse.
      Lawrence had a perfectly happy home life, on the other hand, except
      for the fact that he was continually made aware of the grand future
      that lay before him. The prophecy was vague, but phrased so
      powerfully that everyone knew Lawrence would leave his mark on the
      world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In 1995, he was sorted into Slytherin, and embarked on quite a
      career of adventure as one of the first Silver Slytherins. They
      were a new breed, with new heroes: the few Slytherin aurors like
      Andromeda Tonks; Draco Malfoy and Narcissa Malfoy; Head of House
      Horace Slughorn; and businessmen like Perigold Pucey. They took
      their lead in school from upperclassman Blaise Zabini, who proudly
      said that they were the truly pure in ambition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ambition believes in things that work, above everything else,"
      Zabini said, standing dramatically in front of a window. "Blood
      purity, studying, science, or pickles… it doesn't matter. Ambition
      is about success."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his first year, Lawrence single-handedly helped rescue a
      half-giant named Turm, who had taken refuge in the Forbidden Forest
      to escape his human relatives, the Meroveni-Bowles. Turm had
      thought he would be safe within the wards of the school, in the
      dangerous depths of the woods, but there had been six
      Meroveni-Bowles children at Hogwarts, and they had been planning to
      murder their half-brother. Lawrence had saved Turm from an
      elaborate series of traps constructed in the Forest, although he'd
      been unable to prove to the Headmistress that the Meroveni-Bowles -
      siblings from a respected and wealthy Hufflepuff/Ravenclaw family -
      were at fault.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his second year, Lawrence and his friend Annabeth Dankgesang
      solved the mystery of the Shrieking Shack. They discovered a secret
      passageway under the Whomping Willow that led all the way from
      Hogwarts to Hogsmeade, and found out that the famously "haunted"
      house was inhabited only by Euphorics, who spread rumors about
      gruesome murders and vicious ghosts to discourage visitors from
      intruding on their operation. Minister for Magic Scrimgeour had
      personally congratulated Lawrence and Annabeth for helping break up
      the largest elixir distribution ring in the country. Unfortunately,
      Lawrence had also made an enemy of Sammy Meroveni-Bowles, a boy in
      their own year who Lawrence suspected might have been involved in
      smuggling supplies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his third year, Lawrence and Annabeth met and befriended
      Moaning Myrtle, one of the ghosts of Hogwarts, and she had told
      them of the Deluminator, an artifact created by Albus Dumbledore
      and stored in the Room of Requirement. Seeking out the Room of
      Requirement, they found the Deluminator - and a meeting of the
      Meroveni-Bowles, who were planning to steal Helga Hufflepuff's Cup
      from Smith Manor. Lawrence and Annabeth foiled the burglary and
      exposed the Meroveni-Bowles, leading to the two oldest children
      being expelled and the rest of them closely watched. The dramatic
      duel with Sammy Meroveni-Bowles had ended in a stalemate, that
      night, but at least he would be on a short leash from then on.
      Unfortunately, during the night of excitement and intrigue, the Cup
      was still stolen… and no one knew who did it!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was it Lawrence's special destiny that led him to such
      adventures - was being a child of prophecy some sort of special
      invisible mark, that made trouble seek out the young do-gooder? Or
      had that fate just made into him the sort of person who wasn't
      afraid to investigate the ample mysteries and intricate plots of
      the world's foremost school of magic? It's hard to say. But it was
      Lawrence's fourth year, now, and everyone was holding their breath
      to see what was going to happen - and whether or not Lawrence and
      Annabeth's friendship would blossom into something more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the moment, the pair were in the Slytherin common room, and
      Annabeth was attempting to discern the secrets of their only clue
      to the Caper of the Cup: a small wooden abacus the size of her
      palm, dropped by a shadowy figure last year after an exciting chase
      and brief scuffle in Smith Manor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's enchanted," Annabeth said, touching one of the
      wooden beads gently. She was a slight girl, her hair in neat
      dreadlocks, and her lips pursed in concentration. "I think it's the
      Protean Charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Difficult magic. Hard to do, and bloody expensive to hire,"
      Lawrence said. He eyed the abacus warily. "Any way to trace the
      other things linked to it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Annabeth. "Or, at least, I don't know how." She set
      the abacus down on the table in front of them, sighing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure I've seen one of these before…" said Lawrence. He
      closed his eyes, trying to let his mind free-associate and chase
      down the memory. Annabeth watched him thoughtfully, letting her
      eyes linger on his olive skin and the sharp planes of his face. She
      glanced away when he opened his eyes, grinning. "I've got it!
      Remember when Blaise brought that Silver who works in the Tower to
      speak to us? Auror Pirrip? And he came to talk to us about true
      ambition and all that… and his friend waited for him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Annabeth's eyes widened. "Yes… oh, Merlin, you're right! He
      bumped into the other auror with him, whatsherface, when they were
      leaving, and she dropped something! She got so angry at him and
      said all those words that we went to look up in the library, right
      after! I think it <em class="calibre7">was</em> one of these!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An auror device, then? Just for Tower aurors? Or something else
      entirely?" said Lawrence, narrowing his eyes and squinting at the
      small brown device. The little abacus had five rows of ten beads.
      They were stiff and not easy to move by mistake. The device looked
      unused, but enchanted objects often looked new even after a century
      of use.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Easy enough to eliminate a few 'hypotheses,' " Annabeth said,
      smiling. Lawrence grinned. Neither of them had joined the Science
      Program - it limited your career options too much, since taking the
      extra, unorthodox classes made it harder to get your N.E.W.T.s in
      traditional subjects - but they'd both taken Muggle Studies and
      knew the basics. Annabeth would have been a natural at science.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HYPOTHESIS 1: ALL AURORS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Annabeth got into position at the entrance to the History of
      Magic classroom. Professor Palma de Mallorca wasn't inside - they'd
      already checked - so she was able to stand just outside the door
      within the alcove, out of sight. She got the abacus out, holding it
      in her palm. Then she looked down the corridor. Lawrence was there,
      sitting on a windowsill, a book in his lap. He was watching a pair
      of aurors stationed at the end of the hall: one of the dozen that
      were situated in various places in Hogwarts. He looked at Annabeth,
      and she nodded. He fixed his eyes on the aurors, and then nodded in
      his own turn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Annabeth flicked three of the beads in the top row to one side.
      Somewhere, all the abacuses linked by the Protean Charm to this one
      mimicked its movements. It was a way to signal, and even if they
      didn't know the appropriate messages or code, they did know that
      the recipients would need to look at their own copies. The little
      abacuses were too small and fiddly to interpret by feel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence kept a careful watch on the aurors at the end of the
      hall, but they didn't change their behavior at all. They just kept
      quietly chatting, their hands folded casually into their sleeves.
      They weren't on very high alert - despite the supposed necessity of
      their presence, thanks to the existence of the Tower, they seldom
      had much to do. There were rumors that patients had escaped the
      Receiving Room and gone running around the school, but no one had
      ever actually seen such a thing first-hand, as far as Lawrence
      could discover. He wasn't sure he believed it. No one even really
      knew where the Receiving Room actually <em class="calibre7">was</em> in the school,
      for that matter (except the professors and aurors, he supposed). So
      far as he could actually verify, the only thing the aurors ever did
      was occasionally act to break up a fight or stop some bullying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After as much as ten minutes had passed, Lawrence looked over at
      Annabeth and shook his head. No luck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HYPOTHESIS 2: TOWER AURORS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if they use Legilimency on me?" asked Lawrence, nervously.
      "They'll know I'm lying… they'll know everything." He glanced at
      his robes. "They might just guess from how much I'm sweating!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just… try to be casual! They distribute Safety Sticks to like…
      a thousand countries these days! That Receiving Room must be
      busting, and no one's going to want to chat. Plus, Gregorius'
      cousin Lammie went on a lark, and he says that all that happened
      was that they owled Lammie's parents." Annabeth said, shrugging.
      "You'll be fine!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It knocks you out, you know… they might find the abacus while
      I'm unconscious," Lawrence said, shifting in his seat. "I wish we
      could figure out some way to do it with both of us, like last time.
      It'd be okay-" He cut himself off before he could finish the
      sentence with "if you were there." He blushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Annabeth was blushing now, too, although it wasn't as
      noticeable. She looked away and said hurriedly, with a smile, "Look
      just <em class="calibre7">do it</em>, you big kneazle!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence stared at the Safety Stick in his hands and gulped… but
      anything was better than being right here, right now. It was too…
      too much. He snapped the Safety Stick with one strong thumb. There
      was a moment of wrenching force around his middle, and then
      darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He awoke to a sudden unveiling of consciousness, as though a
      black curtain had been lifted from his awareness. There was no
      grogginess, and Lawrence was familiar enough with the process to
      expect the stunning (everyone knew the procedure to go to the
      Tower, since it was part of the first lectures on safety, and
      Lawrence's uncle had been rejuvenated), but it was still
      disorienting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, son," said a young-looking witch, who was standing next
      to him. He was lying down on one of the cots. Lawrence became aware
      that she was holding his hand, and it twitched involuntarily. The
      witch just went on smiling pleasantly, and spoke again. "It's okay,
      you're in the Tower. We couldn't find anything wrong with your
      ABCs, and you don't seem to be hurt… can you tell me what's wrong?"
      She was extremely nice and extremely firm in a way that tolerated
      no dissembling. Her white robes were neat and trim, and her
      features were firm - snub nose, red hair, freckles, and sharp
      gaze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Merlin… I'm in the Tower?!" Lawrence said. He was feeling a
      little panicky at the prospect of being caught, and so this
      performance didn't take much pretending. "But I didn't… oh,
      <em class="calibre7">no!</em> I'm so sorry… I had a Stick in my rear pocket!
      Annabeth shoved me... " He trailed off, letting the lie fade on his
      lips. He sat up and swiveled his legs off the cot, and buried his
      face in his hands, releasing the healer's hand. The contact was
      making him uncomfortable, as though she could tell his true
      thoughts by touch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see... " said the healer. Her voice was neutral, in the way
      of someone reserving judgment without wishing to give offense. This
      must happen all of the time, and Lawrence was pretty young… she
      probably saw children doing this for fun, just for the experience
      of it, all the time. "Well, this is very serious, you know that,
      right? There are six people who spent quite a while scanning and
      working to help you, and they could have been helping people who
      really needed it. Sick people, injured people, or dying people. I
      see you're a Hogwarts student… what's your name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lawrence Bradwian," he replied, speaking as miserably as he
      felt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We keep track of everyone who 'accidentally' comes here. I'll
      let the arithmancer know… and <em class="calibre7">he'll</em> let the Headmistress
      know," the healer said. She stepped back from the screened-in
      little cubicle in which they were sitting. Lawrence glanced around.
      White tiled floors and ceiling, a plain little metal table, and a
      plain metal cot laid with white linen. Everything was as generic as
      something you might Transfigure, if you were hastily creating
      something new. He supposed they were in the main clinic ward, or
      something… details on the layout and details had been more scarce
      when he and Annabeth had asked around; everyone focused on the
      aurors and healing. <em class="calibre7">Oh, Merlin… why did we ask around like
      that, how stupid… if anyone does doubt this 'accident,' it'll be
      easy to find out how curious we've been about the Tower!</em>
      Lawrence tried to freeze his face in its current dismay, so that he
      didn't visibly dissolve into horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want you to think that you shouldn't get a new Stick,
      or let this stop you from visiting us in a real emergency,
      Lawrence," the healer said. She glanced away from him, and waved
      someone over. He took the opportunity to shove his hands in his
      pockets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Serge, would you help this young man, please? He needs to speak
      to Tommy or someone else, and then he needs to go back to… well,
      class, I suppose," the healer said to someone who had just walked
      up, past the edge of the white screen and out of sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Certainly, Beneficent," said the unknown man. He stepped up to
      where Lawrence could see him… and it was an auror. A hulking man,
      six and a half feet if he was an inch, and twenty stone if he was a
      pound. Serge the Auror had a thick neck and a shaved head, and when
      he lifted a guiding hand to Lawrence, it looked more like
      architecture than anatomy, in terms of scale. The auror smiled
      kindly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have a good afternoon, Lawrence," Beneficent said to him. She
      was smiling again… she'd apparently decided that she believed him.
      Or that she should be merciful. "Be more careful, okay?" Giving a
      half-wave, she was gone before he could answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence slid forward and stood up, stepping a little awkwardly
      to where Serge was standing, outside the cubicle. He glanced to the
      left and right. There looked to be at least a hundred similar
      cubicles stretching to either side, with an ample corridor down the
      middle. Lawrence could see two dozen people or more… healers,
      aurors, and people in random dress who must be patients. Several
      patients were unconscious and limp in the air, suspended by a spell
      as they were briskly taken down the corridor - entering or leaving,
      he supposed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not as fancy as you expected, I bet," said Serge with a
      smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No better time. Lawrence flicked four or five beads on the
      abacus in his pocket, and watched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the span of the next fifteen seconds, he counted two aurors
      and three healers who paused at the signal, and at least
      <em class="calibre7">appeared</em> to look at something from their pockets. Not
      every auror, and not every healer… only those five. What is worse,
      it looked to him like they were doing so furtively. They all looked
      with cupped hands, one of the healers ended a conversation and
      stepped away from the other person, and one of the aurors ducked
      almost out of sight into a cubicle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure what I expected," said Lawrence. "But it wasn't
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HYPOTHESIS 3: OH MERLIN I DON'T EVEN WHAT</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So… it's not all aurors, or even all Tower aurors… it's just
      some of the healers and aurors in the Tower? That's good news!"
      said Annabeth. They were scrunched together on a bench in the Great
      Hall - luncheon was the only time Lawrence could find to meet,
      since he was serving detentions in the evening. It was Inigo
      Imago's birthday, and in honor of the legendary seer, the rolls and
      muffins were enchanted to hang suspended above the tables, spinning
      in tight orbits. It was said to resemble the movement of the
      heavenly spheres. The wide table in front of them was also filled
      with meats, cheeses, and platters of pickles. There was also some
      sort of curry, although neither Lawrence nor Annabeth was
      particularly interested in it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can that possibly be good news?!" said Lawrence, wheeling
      around to face her. He held an uneaten but enormous sandwich in his
      hands. "It means… well, I'm not sure what it means, but it's
      something <em class="calibre7">sinister!</em> A secret cabal within the Tower! A
      cabal that stole the Cup!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, just stop and think for a moment. There are all kinds of
      non-sinister possible explanations, right?" Annabeth said, picking
      a sesame roll out of the air. She tore it apart, absently, as she
      spoke. "Just because one of the people who stole the cup was a part
      of whatever group we're talking about, here, doesn't mean the group
      was involved. If we found a Gryffindor robe, it wouldn't mean there
      was a Gryffindor conspiracy to steal the Cup… just that one
      Gryffindor was involved. We have narrowed down the list of
      suspects, a lot. It's good news."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence sullenly took a bite out of his sandwich, declining to
      respond until a respectable amount of time had passed. After a
      while, though, he turned to Annabeth and said something witty and
      cutting, even though he said it around a mouthful of food that made
      it completely unintelligible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gross," Annabeth said, making a face. "Slow down, or you'll
      choke."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence abandoned the effort, and concentrated on chewing.
      Annabeth went on, saying, "Okay, so we should probably go tell the
      Headmistress, immediately. There's no reason to wait. She and the
      Tower and all those important people can figure this out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Lawrence, urgently. "That won't work. Listen, who was
      most likely to notice that Sammy and his siblings were up to no
      good? What sort of person?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A student, of course," said Annabeth. "Or a professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And which students, specifically?" said Lawrence, raising his
      eyebrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Us, I suppose. I mean, we've been tangling with them for years.
      There was Turm and the Shrieking Shack and Myrtle and… yes, if
      anyone was going to get suspicious, it was going to be us,"
      Annabeth said, guardedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what would we be expected to do, if we found a clue?" said
      Lawrence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...report it to the Headmistress? But wait, you can't possibly
      think that this is a trap? If this conspiracy involves the
      Headmistress, then I think we've already lost. And anyway, how
      could you even think that!? You know what she's like! And how would
      that trap even work… you're saying that… I don't even know what
      you're saying!" Annabeth sounded scandalized and shocked and
      scornful, all in equal measure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough, okay," said Lawrence. He switched tactics. "But
      maybe she's just not powerful enough. We need to go right to the
      top. There's only one person who can sort this out… one person who
      can figure out the conspiracy and get back the Cup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First of all, you don't know that there's a conspiracy. The
      abacus might not be related. Second of all, there's no way we could
      get a private message to Minister N'Goma… there are probably eight
      people assigned just to read her owls. Third of all-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no," said Lawrence. "I mean the <em class="calibre7">Tower</em>. Let's go
      give the abacus to Dean Potter! He'll help us get back the
      Cup!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Annabeth paused, then frowned, suspiciously. "You just want an
      excuse to talk to him and bring us to his attention." She thought
      for a moment, then brightened. "That's an excellent idea. He's
      almost as important as the Minister for Magic, anyway… and
      <em class="calibre7">he's</em> not accountable to <em class="calibre7">anyone</em>. A good person to
      know, and this is a good excuse to talk to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was just like Professor Slughorn always said: the more people
      you know, the more people who can help you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why not just - I don't know, cut off your finger, or
      something? I'm pretty sure that a lot of people who go to the Tower
      get to speak to Dean Potter. Or we could just talk to an auror and
      tell them what's up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I suppose," said Lawrence. "But I think that they usually
      don't let you talk to him very much… and he must hear this kind of
      stuff all day. We need to <em class="calibre7">stand out</em>. And also… this might
      be a good opportunity for some payback on the Meroveni-Bowles.
      Opportunities like this, for a clever plot, don't come along every
      day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right," Lawrence said. "So how are we going to sneak into
      the Tower, the most heavily-guarded place in Britain?" He took
      another bite out of his sandwich.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have an idea, I think," Annabeth said. "An idea for a plan."
      She picked up a piece of torn roll from her plate and rolled it
      into a ball between her fingers. "We want to solve a mystery and
      report a possible conspiracy, right? Recover a relic of the
      Founders of Hogwarts and return it to the rest of Hepzibah Smith's
      collection, and punish those responsible? And we also want to
      <em class="calibre7">get</em> Sammy and his siblings? And, of course, become famous
      and powerful?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawrence nodded, chewing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, how can we do all of these things with one simple plan?"
      Annabeth squished the bread flat between two fingers. "Let me give
      you a hint: remember that big cabinet we saw in the Room of
      Requirement?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Note: How would you do it?</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
