<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>46. Significant Digits - Significant Digits Chapter 26: Watchers, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="46. Significant Digits"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s26" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 26: Watchers</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: Sir! Sir! What say you to the fact that our families are
      snapping in half, sir? I say to you what I have said a thousand
      times, and that is this: tradition is the glue which holds magical
      society together! When you burn away tradition, sweeping it off
      with Muggle machines and cold numbers, then you dissolve the ties
      which bind magical Britain! I myself have visited the Registrars of
      Marriages and Unions of Godric's Hollow and Diagon Alley, to name
      only two, and I am told that they have seen twice as many divorces
      this year as they saw in 1989! Twice as many! Homes are being
      broken, children are finding themselves Flooing back and forth on
      alternate weeks, and happy unions are being destroyed in the wake
      of all this haphazard and destructive change. So I ask you then,
      what say you to that?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">[scattered applause]</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: Thank you for that question. I do have a response.
      First, I believe that you show the same care for metaphor as you do
      for logic. Are we burning, sweeping, or dissolving? And if we're
      burning, how do we do that with cold numbers? Clear articulation is
      a sign of clear thought, and vice-versa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">[scattered applause]</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: Mockery is no substitute for an answer! You-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Sir-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: You-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Sir, please let Mr. Potter finish speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: You cannot-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Sir, please let-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: Yes, yes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: I do have an answer. But before I give it, let me also
      point out that two points of data, two numbers, do not make a
      trend. There might have been unusually few divorces in 1989, for
      example. Or maybe the divorce rate was even higher in 1979. It's
      hard to compare anything unless you have more numbers. But that's
      not-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: The pleading of a child!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: But that's not the only flaw in your thinking, Mr.
      Carrow. There's a hoary old phrase to use at this point:
      correlation is-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: Yes, ply us with-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: Correlation-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: -your condescension, Mr. Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Sir, I must ask you-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: Correlation-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Mr. Carrow-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: -is not causation. That means that there are many sorts
      of reasons why the divorce rate might have risen over a whole
      decade. Not every change in the world can be laid at my feet,
      and-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: All of this complicated jargon, but the words you need
      are so simple. Apologies have the virtue of brevity, as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Mr. Carrow, sir, I need to ask you to let Mr. Potter
      speak. Remember your name and the honour of your house, sir. We are
      here for a civil discussion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: Yes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">DE KAMP: Mr.-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: My honour and that of my house is unbroken, Mr.
      Hughes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Mr. Potter, please continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: Then let me just say this, then, Mr. Carrow: the largest
      flaw - no, the biggest mistake you're making is that you haven't
      even stopped to ask yourself whether or not this is a bad thing. If
      it is true, and if it is truly my fault, neither of which points I
      am willing to concede on the basis of two fiddly numbers out of
      context-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: You-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: -then it is almost certainly the result of money.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: Money?!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: Gringott's began issuing loans near the end of 1993, Mr.
      Carrow, and by 1995 the economy of magical Britain was twice as
      large.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: Money is only worth what it can be - and it cannot buy
      tradition, or happiness, or a family life. If we have made the
      trade you suggest, then I would say it is a bad bargain… and so
      much the worse for the shopkeep!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: You don't understand. The money has given people
      freedom. Even a small sum of money - the possibility of taking on
      the responsibility of debt - can be enough to allow someone to
      change their job or start a new business or even just change their
      situation. The freedom of money leads to a lot of other disruptive
      freedoms. Including the freedom to leave their spouse. People who
      might otherwise have felt trapped-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: You mudblood piece of-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Mr. Carrow! Mr. Carrow!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">POTTER: Mr. Carrow, you seem-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Mr. Carrow, this is-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: She never-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">HUGHES: Mr. Carrow!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CARROW: unintelligible</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Partial excerpt from the unedited transcript of the second
      of the Tower Debates on the Future of Magical Britain, as recorded
      by a certified-impartial Quotes Quill.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know it's a bit unfair," Hermione Granger said, staring at
      the five Honourable, "but it certainly does seem that we tend to
      find you lot in skeevy little places, doing skeevy little things."
      She glanced pointedly down at the floor, where trickles of golden
      potion were slowly spreading around under the feet of Margaret
      Bulstrode, Edgar Erasmus, Geoffrey Gem, and his two assistants. She
      could smell the shrivelfig. Euphoria Elixir.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Auror Kwannon?" Hermione called over her shoulder, past where
      Hyori was standing at the door. The Returned witch stepped aside to
      admit the auror, without ever taking her eyes or wand or glower off
      of the captured wizards and witches. Kwannon also had to edge past
      the gentleman she'd brought with her from the DMLE, Gerald. He was
      some sort of recorder, taking notes of raids like this one. An
      ineffectual attempt at holding aurors accountable, Hermione
      thought. Kwannon looked irritated at the whole production.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The aurors feel like they should be running the show, first
      through the door. But there's just no reason to let them take those
      kind of risks, not when I'm here</em>, she thought. She glanced
      over at the auror again. Kwannon was relatively tall, considering
      her Chinese heritage, with a round face, a scattering of light
      freckles, and a flat nose. She was one of Alastor's, and was
      usually in the Tower. For the time being, though, she was here on
      Harry's behalf, along with four more aurors from the DMLE. Harry
      had needed someone here, after all - needed some eyes and ears on
      her Honourable hunt… what would he do with himself otherwise,
      locked up in that Tower and buried in healing and research, if he
      couldn't divert himself with some crude manipulations of everyone
      around him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that manipulation, per se, was her complaint. It was just…
      Harry never <em class="calibre7">learned</em>. After their first year, including the
      trial and the troll and that terrible time at the end, he never
      really changed. He just became more… well, Harry-like. He hadn't
      learned the real lesson she thought he'd take away: if you try to
      use secret knowledge to manipulate complex situations about which
      you have incomplete information, then things will get very bad,
      very quickly. It was very hard for any person to be smart enough to
      manage that - and it was stupid to try when you had
      <em class="calibre7">friends</em>. It was "nihil supernum," after all, not "nihil
      par."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But the stubborn man hadn't learned then, and so
      Walpurgisnacht had happened, and he</em> still <em class="calibre7">hasn't
      learned,</em> she thought, bitterly. <em class="calibre7">Even after the price we
      paid.</em> Hermione almost lifted her hand to touch her neck, but
      stopped as she realized what she was doing. No time for this sort
      of dithering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She brought her thoughts back to the present situation. <em class="calibre7">Time
      for me to butt out a bit. I'll make myself her asset, rather than
      her superior. She's probably better at this than I,
      anyway.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Auror Kwannon, this isn't really my sort of thing," she said,
      turning and smiling at the auror, slightly lifting her shoulders to
      indicate her ignorance about the next proper thing to do. "You were
      kind enough to let me pop through here quickly, to keep the
      miscreants here… maybe you could take the lead from here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well…" said the auror, looking around the room before
      focusing back in on the five Honourable. "This is some trouble,
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gem noticeably shrank back into himself, seeming almost to fold
      his thin body over. The witch and wizard that were his assistants
      took things a little bit more in stride - as though stunned and out
      of place, with confused expressions. Hermione was fairly sure they
      were still riding down a dose of Euphoria.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Erasmus, on the other hand, puffed up his chest. He was red in
      the face, and with the colouring of his hair, he looked humorously
      similar to a large carrot. "There's no crime in printing and
      distributing a newsletter, or in conducting private researches, I
      think. Even in today's Britain!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kwannon turned her sharp attention to the researcher. "Mr.
      Erasmus, you are correct. However, it is illegal to operate a
      private Floo network, it is illegal to conduct dangerous research
      within one hundred meters of a residence, and it is extremely
      illegal to sell Euphoric Elixir without a license."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All unjust prohibitions!" said Erasmus. He had brilliant blue
      eyes that were narrowed in indignation. To emphasize his point, he
      thumped his fist down on the stack of boxes he'd been carrying when
      Hermione had torn up the entrance hatch and knocked down their
      door. "Who is the Government to say what I do with a Floo, where I
      can do my research, or what potions I brew, eh? My research is my
      research!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I recall your research, sir," said Kwannon, her mouth
      tight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Tower researcher had been studying the construction
      of magical machines, Hermione recalled, before he had been fired,
      his research confiscated, and key memories Obliviated. Erasmus had
      ignored safety concerns entirely, and had insisted on just bullying
      through and continuing to build his wind-machines. They used fluid
      dynamics: tight swirls of air spinning as gears, fed by small
      warming columns of heat from below; flywheels of pressurized zones
      to store and transfer energy; and shifts between small turbulent
      flows and laminar flows as switches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The machines had been brilliant - Erasmus was brilliant - but
      they had also been maddeningly dangerous. One <em class="calibre7">Ventus</em> could
      power them for days, and the <em class="calibre7">very first</em> thing they were
      designed to do was consume waste matter of <em class="calibre7">any type</em> and
      incinerate it for more power. If Erasmus had moved his
      investigations of Muggle science out of engineering and
      aerodynamics, and into something like computer programming… the
      danger had been unbelievable, even by magical standards. He was
      almost a cartoonish figure: the mad scientist with no concern for
      consequences. Harry had not only been apoplectic, he'd been
      outright offended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione supposed that the setbacks they'd given Erasmus,
      including the changes to his memory, were probably enough to ensure
      everyone's safety. But to see him right back at it, only now
      without any supervision… they'd need to do something, somehow. It
      needed thought. For now, at least, it looked like Erasmus wouldn't
      be a danger for a while.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the States, anyone can set up a Floo. It's not right that
      there's only one Floo Network in Britain," offered Margaret
      Bulstrode. She was a beautiful young woman, but clearly quite out
      of her depth. Hermione knew Margaret, slightly - she'd been several
      years ahead at Hogwarts, and the aurors in charge of investigating
      the Diagon bombing had brought her before the Wizengamot for
      examination on the basis of an informant's accusations. Nothing had
      come of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't know about that, I'm afraid," said Kwannon, her
      voice hard. "But I do know it's illegal here, just like Faux Floo
      is illegal. Is that the genuine two-Sickles-a-scoop on your
      mantel?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Erasmus, puffing out his cheeks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mm," said Kwannon, noncommittally. She walked around the room,
      looking sharply into corners and at everything around. "What else
      you have here, eh? Come on, Gerald." She headed through the other
      door, into a hallway or another room. Gerald followed her with his
      floating parchment and Quotes Quill, looking nervous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a private facility," called out the weasely Gem,
      hugging himself. He'd put down the crate he'd been holding. "You
      have no call to go snooping…" He trailed off, uneasily. His fear of
      the Goddess and Hermione's supernatural air of innocence were
      probably confusing him. That sometimes happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's an auror," said Hermione. "The Tower and I have proper
      search warrants and <em class="calibre7">habeas corpus</em> and seizure rules
      planned out, but we haven't gotten there yet. For now, you're stuck
      with the traditional system, as we found it. Seems to mostly date
      back to the eighteenth century, with some modern bits like Hit
      Wizards stuck on. But tradition is best, after all… isn't that
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Need to taunt as a distraction… best not take it too far,
      though</em>. Susie seemed to think it was funny, though, smirking
      as she walked to the crates of copies of <em class="calibre7">Unbreakable
      Honour</em> and sat on one. " 'Good for thee, but not for me,' as
      the saying goes, love." said the Returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Erasmus huffed again. "Under any system of justice, Muggle or
      magical, this is out of order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione approached him. "How so? I'd be interested to hear you
      defend this, Edgar." She gestured at the crate of broken potion,
      and clasped her hands in front of herself. "Did your research ever
      lead you to encounter the notion of 'wireheading,' I wonder?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were famous for fighting bullies, back when you were at
      Hogwarts," said Margaret, suddenly and loudly. "S.P.H.E.W and all
      that. But now you <em class="calibre7">are</em> a bully."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Ah, that'll do nicely.</em> Hermione smiled again, and
      turned to face Bulstrode. She approached very close, and stared at
      the woman. She was a little taller than Margaret, and she knew she
      was quite intimidating. She let the smile fade from her face, and
      lifted a finger. She poked it into Margaret's chest, and said -
      coldly, now - "Don't hide behind loose categorizations. Say what
      you mean. You're being persecuted, are you?" She plucked at
      Margaret's robe at the shoulder, and then again at one of the
      pockets, contemptuously and dismissively… as though the woman were
      a bit of lint. "You and all of Draco's loathsome death-worshippers,
      piling all your prejudices and ignorance up into a single lot." She
      walked around Margaret as she spoke, and took the opportunity to
      surreptitiously drop a button - one she'd removed from Margaret's
      pocket, and palmed - into her own robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll say what I mean, all right," replied Margaret. Her voice
      barely shook. "You lot have taken over. And you've done a lot of
      good things. But there's a natural order to the world, and you've
      broken it. You've… you've done some of the darkest of rituals. It's
      the only way things even make sense. And you're eating up all the
      rest of the world, state by state. If you keep going, the world
      won't even be recognizable… no traditions left, no people thinking
      their own thoughts in their own ways… you want everyone to be the
      same, like the porcelain dolls that come out of the Tower.
      'Rejuvenation'... it's just control and replacement!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco has always had a silver tongue," said Hermione,
      scornfully. <em class="calibre7">She's just parroting back what she hears. This was
      the danger of letting things go this way, Harry… they're cementing
      in these ideas. It's hard enough to get people on our side, but to
      win over those who actually</em> hate <em class="calibre7">us this much?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You knew I'd never agree with this plan. That I'd point out
      it was extravagant and risky and impractical. The slow victory is
      better than the fast loss, Harry.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry wasn't here, and there was no point venting now. Bend
      before the storm, and surprise her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might be right in some ways, Ms. Bulstrode," she said,
      walking away. She saw Hyori raise an eyebrow from her position by
      the entrance, and flashed a quick smile at the Returned. Hermione
      turned back around to face the Honourable. "It's dangerous to
      discard a lot of traditions. Many of them survive from century to
      century because they serve an important purpose. Memetic survival:
      mutation, variation, and evolution. 'Unconscious memes have ensured
      their own survival by virtue of the same qualities of ruthlessness
      that successful genes display,' " she quoted. (<em class="calibre7">The Selfish
      Gene</em> by Richard Dawkins, page 198, her brain automatically
      supplied). "It's something we should be more careful about, and we
      want to avoid when we can. Was there any specific tradition that
      you are unhappy about losing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Margaret was silent for a long moment. Hermione folded her arms,
      and waited patiently. It wasn't even an act: she was honestly
      interested to hear the answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about Quidditch?" said Margaret, after a while. "The Tower
      wants to get rid of that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he did want to change it, yes," Hermione said. "Not get
      rid of it. Harry isn't much for sports in general, I'm afraid, and
      I don't think he ever quite understood it - especially the snitch.
      Muggles have a similar sort of thing called test cricket, but I
      doubt Harry has ever played or even watched it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They sacked all the Quidditch regulators!" said Margaret in
      reply, strength coming into her voice. "Closed down the whole games
      section of the Ministry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That wasn't the Tower, that was a decision by Minister Fudge,"
      said Hermione. But when Margaret and Erasmus gave her a look, she
      smiled slightly. "But yes, he supported it. As I recall, though,
      Quidditch is doing just fine… better than ever, in fact, now that
      it's being run privately. Most of the same people working for it, I
      think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kwannon returned at that moment, Gerald in tow, shaking her
      head. "Fairly plain about the research being done here, and the
      Euphoria being brewed. We'll get some people in here to collect all
      this, but I think you should all try to think of a good solicitor,
      if you know one." She headed up to the entrance, and waved in the
      aurors who were standing idle in the corridor. "Come on through.
      Back rooms there… bag up the lot. Leave the experiments inside the
      circles until we can have someone bring them out with
      precautions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I imagine they know some people who can help," said Susie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy," said Hyori from behind Hermione, scornfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be careful with my research," said Erasmus, urgently. He was
      turning red again with anxiety. "I'm within a hair of a working
      Zimara machine!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Perpetual motion? Maybe I can stay and take a look,</em>
      thought Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any way we can help, Hedley?" she asked, hopefully. "We can
      stick around if you would like some assistance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, but I think we have it in hand," said Kwannon.
      Hermione probably should have let her go first; there would have
      been relatively little danger. Lesson learned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I suppose we do have things we can get up to. Thank you,"
      said Hermione. She nodded at her Returned, and they all headed for
      the exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was true, after all. They had some parchments to read. As
      they made their way out, Hermione reached into her robe and picked
      up the Everlasting Eye. When she'd seen Bulstrode out on the
      streets of Knockturn Alley, it had been easy enough to step aside,
      slip on the Cloak of Invisibility, and sprint on around ahead of
      her. She'd dropped the listening device into Margaret's pocket
      after tripping her with an invisible foot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's find out who escaped our raid, shall we?" she asked the
      two Returned witches. Susie smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We are faced, right from the beginning, with a difficult
      task. It is a task so immense that most wizards never even notice
      it, any more than they notice their eyelids. Indeed, when I began
      this chapter, I sought out dozens of the most learned wizards in
      Britain, only to discover that no more than one or two had ever
      given any thought to the problem. Madame Hopkirk of the Department
      of Mysteries herself was able only to point me to three or four
      dusty volumes of consideration - none of which I could read (the
      obstacle was the same one previously encountered, dear reader, when
      I attempted to research the history of Hogwarts: no consideration
      is given to those for whom the Interdict is a forever-insuperable
      obstacle).</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Subsequent conversations will allow us to piece together
      some basic ideas, if they must be rudimentary of necessity. So
      then: what is magic? The physical realization of an inner spirit?
      The action of a daemon working on one's behalf? A demand made on
      some hidden set of rules to the universe? We set our education and
      wits to the task of explaining many things we might see in
      magic:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A large proportion of magical effects conform, depend, or
      otherwise interact with the emotions, expectations, wishes, or
      willpower of the caster.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Magic seems to operate almost entirely on a human scale,
      even including wholly subjective aspects of modern life.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The linguistic components of spells are all well-suited to
      the human tongue, and most even seem to derive from Latin or Greek
      roots. The history of magic begins in Greece, as Madame Bagshot has
      instructed us, but was that necessity or coincidence?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Magically-created matter is mundane matter in most
      respects.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Magic interferes with Muggle machines in some unknown way,
      yet to be discovered or classified, and thus seems inherently
      inimical to machinery in a spiritual sense.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The ability of humans to do magic varies, with most people
      unable to do any magic at all, others having only the very tiny
      magic of a Squib, and some having enough magic to cast spells. Many
      plants and animals also possess magic where others do not.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Magic is hereditary, and so must be a trait like hair color
      or height that is passed from parent to child.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It is widely known that magic has been decreasing over time,
      which means that it must be going somewhere.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">When these phenomena are fully internalized and realized, we
      may thus see that the daemon theory of which we spoke earlier must
      be the correct one. It explains all of the above conditions, as the
      daemons consume magic to live, make war on rival machines, live
      within the body to touch upon the mind, and are passed from parent
      to child like a Sallowfax infection.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">- excerpted from Chapter Three of <em class="calibre7">A Squib's-Eye View</em>,
      by A. F. Leiding</p>
      <p class="calibre6">≡≡≡Ω≡≡≡</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It is abundantly clear that Mr. Leiding is not only a Squib,
      but also a fool. We may pity him for his limitations in magic, but
      we should pity him even more for his limitations in
      reasoning.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It is impossible to understand the true nature of magic.
      Atlantis' fall put the source of that knowledge out of time and out
      of our reach. This may be the ultimate tragedy of this book: left
      with no purpose, what else is Mr. Leiding to do, but construct
      fantasies and try to know the unknowable?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-excerpted from <em class="calibre7">American Mage</em>'s review of <em class="calibre7">A
      Squib's-Eye View</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
