<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 1: The Journalist, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: The Journalist</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Published 10/14/2011</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Recognition code 927, I am a potato."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">=ooo=</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The journalist carrying a small briefcase looked up at the tall,
      newly-completed office building, a towering edifice of steel and
      glass in the heart of London's business district, contemplating his
      assignment and the man he was to interview today, hopefully. It had
      not been easy, getting this assignment — his publisher had dealt
      with an almost overwhelming number of delays, reschedules, and
      missed appointments, just to get him in to see the man who sat at
      the top of this monument to the resources of TBC Enterprises,
      Ltd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The journalist smiled grimly at the irony of a corporation of
      this size identified as "limited." TBC Enterprises had been at the
      vanguard of many business endeavors since its incorporation
      thirteen years ago. In the past few years its interests had begun
      to favor the fields of nanotechnology — creating smaller and
      smaller structures for use in advanced manufacturing and the
      emerging field of biotechnology. Already the company was one of the
      leaders in the field in Britain, and it was vigorously pursuing a
      place of prominence in the global nanotech market.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was the reason for today's interview. He was here to talk
      with Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, the Chairman and CEO of TBC
      Enterprises. Mr. Potter-Evans-Verres had an impressive resume —
      he'd graduated from Oxford, where his father, Professor Michael
      Verres-Evans, was then an eminent professor of biochemistry. He'd
      had his secondary education at a private school located in
      Scotland, though details on his time there were sketchy — the name
      of the school wasn't even known. It was a fact that he'd overcome
      an unusual nervous system condition, a 26-hour sleep cycle that was
      known in the medical literature as <em class="calibre7">hypernychthemeral
      syndrome</em>, or more commonly as non-24 sleep-wake syndrome,
      which kept him awake two extra hours every day. This had been cited
      by his office as one of the reasons for the delays in interviewing
      him. Privately, however, the journalist considered this more of an
      excuse than a reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Entering the building, he took the lift up to the main offices
      of TBC, which he found took up the entire floor. Stepping from the
      lift, the journalist looked around, trying to determine where
      Potter-Evans-Verres' office would be. A short distance from the
      lift was a counter where a young woman watched him unobtrusively,
      waiting for him to approach. Well, who was he to disappoint
      her?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning," the journalist said, smiling as he stepped up to
      the counter. "I'm Mr. Monroe, from <em class="calibre7">Singularity Today</em>
      magazine. I have an appointment with Mr. Harry
      Potter-Evans-Verres."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young woman nodded and glanced at a nearby screen. "Yes,"
      she said, after what seemed a longer than necessary wait. "Your
      appointment was to be over lunch with Mr. Potter — you're an hour
      early."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Monroe said, smiling apologetically. "I wasn't sure
      when he took lunch. I decided early was better than late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young woman nodded but did not smile. "I'll take to you his
      office," she said, and led Monroe through a convoluted path of
      desks, corridors, and cubicles, to a waiting area nearly on the
      opposite side of the floor. Next to a large, highly polished oaken
      door sat a pleasant-looking young woman, a redhead this time, who
      stood at their approach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Monroe, this is Mrs. Thomas, Mr. Potter's personal
      assistant," she said, introducing them, and the redhead shook his
      hand politely. Her grip was firm for a woman, Monroe noted, as he
      took stock of her athletic build.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Debbie," Mrs. Thomas nodded at her, which Debbie
      returned then walked away. The redhead's eyes followed her for a
      moment before turning back to Monroe with an apologetic look on her
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Terribly sorry for the mix-up," she said, and Monroe gave her a
      puzzled frown. "Mr. Potter is very busy this morning — he may not
      have time for your interview, Mr. Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe sighed softly. Another delay, why was he not surprised?
      "Would it be a terrible inconvenience if I waited, in case his
      schedule clears up? My editor may tear what's left of his hair out
      if he hears we have to delay the interview with Mr. — eh, Potter —
      another month."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The redhead looked dubious. "I can't guarantee anything, Mr.
      Monroe. Mr. Potter is quite busy, as I've said, and you may be here
      for some time before he has any time to spare for you. However,"
      she continued, as my countenance fell, "I see no reason why you
      cannot wait, if that's your preference."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wonderful!" Monroe beamed at her. "That would be fantastic. I
      can review my notes for the interview while I wait." The journalist
      looked around. The waiting area was not large, with only a small
      though comfortable-looking divan and a few plush chairs for
      furnishings. He looked around for any coffee or tea stations or
      some kind of refreshment or vending area, but saw nothing. This
      level of TBC Enterprises appeared to be all business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The redhead seemed to read his intention. "Would you like
      something to drink, Mr. Monroe?" she inquired. "We have tea,
      coffee, and soda."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A soda would be fine," he told her. "A Pepsi or Coke, whichever
      you have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have both," she smiled. "Which would you —?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The polished oak door opened and a man with short black hair
      that stuck out in several places, with oval wireframe glasses,
      poked his head out at them, turning to the redhead. "Ginny," he
      said shortly. "I need the McLaughlin report on my desk by lunch,
      please." His eyes flicked momentarily to Monroe, but he did not
      acknowledge his presence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," Mrs. Thomas replied. "I'll have that to you in a
      jiffy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter's head (for that was who the man was, his face was
      instantly recognizable) disappeared and the door closed. Ginny
      Thomas's eyes did not quite meet Monroe's as she said, "I'll get
      that soda —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Pepsi will be fine," Monroe told her, then sat in one of the
      waiting area chairs, placing his briefcase on the floor next to
      him. He was smiling smugly to himself. The cat was out of the bag
      now; there was <em class="calibre7">no way</em> he was going anywhere until Harry
      Potter walked out of that office and he'd at least tried to talk to
      him. He sat down on the divan, pulling a small notepad from his
      jacket. In fact, he might even consider going through the oaken
      door to see him <em class="calibre7">now</em>, once Mrs. Thomas left her desk for
      any reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But instead of hurrying off to get his drink, she walked around
      behind her desk, bent over, and came up with a glass of ice and a
      can of soda. Monroe blinked, wondering if there was a mini-fridge
      behind the desk he hadn't seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She handed him the glass, pouring the fizzing liquid into it
      from the can. "Mr. Potter will be with you when he becomes
      available," she said, a bit uncomfortably, then returned to her
      seat. Monroe watched her for a few minutes, waiting to see whether
      she would leave her desk or not, but she had gotten on the phone
      and was talking too softly for him to hear. He finally shrugged,
      sipped his soda, and began reviewing his questions for the
      interview.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time passed slowly, almost tortuously. Monroe kept glancing up
      at the door to Potter's office, wondering what the man was doing in
      there, as Ginny at the receptionist's desk made call after call,
      typing on her computer in between. Other people came and went,
      dropping off folders or other materials at her desk, though it
      never seemed to become cluttered. Monroe was watching
      surreptitiously, trying to discover where she was putting all that
      paperwork, but the nearest he could figure she was putting it into
      drawers in her desk — drawers which should shortly be filled to
      bursting, even assuming they were empty when she began. It was a
      mystery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was only around 11:15 by the time Monroe had reviewed his
      notes for the third time, and put them away. He checked his watch
      every few minutes thereafter until it was nearly noon. Would Potter
      go to lunch, or was he planning on dodging this interview as well,
      just as he had dodged his past three appointments? Time stretched
      on, past noon, then twelve-fifteen, then twelve-thirty. Finally,
      Monroe stood. This was becoming ridiculous. They might throw him
      out, but he was going into that office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you —?" Mrs. Thomas began, then stood as Monroe walked
      past her desk, gripped the doorknob and began to turn it. "Wait,
      you can't —!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe ignored her. "Mr. Potter-Evans-Verres," he began, as the
      door swung aside. "I'm James Monroe and —" and he stopped, looking
      around the empty room; it seemed larger, somehow, than Monroe would
      have expected for a corner office. Potter was gone, somehow. The
      office itself was quite elegant, with a large desk of polished oak,
      nearly devoid of any paperwork or other materials, and an
      expensive-looking leather sofa along one wall, with matching end
      tables at either end. On the other wall was a set of bookcases,
      filled with books. Monroe could see at a glance that they covered a
      wide range of subjects — even some with strange titles with words
      like Transfiguration, Legilimency, and Potioneering. What were
      those?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the moment, however, Monroe ignored the books, determined to
      find where Harry Potter-Evans-Verres had gone. He strode over to
      the other door and opened it, finding a toilet, shower and
      wardrobe, but no other exit. Unless he was hiding in the shower (he
      wasn't — Monroe opened the door to check) there seemed to be no way
      he could have left the office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Monroe!" Ginny had finally caught up with him. She had a
      rather stern expression on her face that momentarily gave Monroe
      pause. "I must ask you to leave Mr. Potter's office or —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or he'll refuse to see me?" Monroe finished. "He's already done
      that several times now. I'm starting to feel a bit persecuted here,
      Miss —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mrs</em>. Thomas," she corrected, her voice still stern.
      "I'm sorry about that, but it cannot be helped. When Mr. Potter is
      busy he has very little time for anything else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose not," Monroe agreed. He was now looking around the
      room, for any sign of where Harry Potter had gone. "But it would be
      simpler if he simply declined an interview instead of these
      cat-and-mouse games he's playing with my magazine. <em class="calibre7">Singularity
      Today</em> is read by most of the major players in the GNR and MEMS
      fields, and we <em class="calibre7">thought</em> Mr. Potter wanted an opportunity to
      put this company in the limelight of the push for the Singularity.
      If that's not the case then I can write that he declined to be
      interviewwww…" His voice trailed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe felt a momentary disorientation and shook his head,
      trying to clear the sudden fuzziness he felt. He looked around. The
      room he was standing in was unfamiliar to him. "What — what was I
      just saying?" He asked the young woman, a redhead, who was putting
      something back into a pocket in her skirt, a woman whose name he
      couldn't remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were just saying you had to leave for lunch," the woman
      said smoothly, taking him by the arm and steering him toward the
      door. "I'm sorry we had to postpone the interview yet again, but
      these things happen, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, yes," Monroe said uncertainly, being led out into a small
      reception area. "That's…too bad, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of the girls will escort you to the lift," the young woman
      said briefly. "Have a pleasant day, Mr. Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, thanks," Monroe said, still confused. At the edge of the
      reception area, however he stopped. "There's something I'm supposed
      to remember…" he muttered, looking around as if doing so would help
      him recall what it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you'll think of it before long," the redhead said,
      signaling for a girl at a nearby desk to come over. "Debbie here
      will take you to the lift." She noticed his briefcase next to his
      chair in the waiting area. "I'll get your briefcase for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Monroe nodded, then turned to her with a sudden glint in
      his eyes. "I remember now! <em class="calibre7">Recognition code 927</em>, <em class="calibre7">I am
      a potato</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny started. "<em class="calibre7">What</em> did you say?" she asked, staring
      at him in shock, his briefcase still in her hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Recognition code 927, I am a potato," Monroe repeated. "It
      means I've forgotten something…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Where</em> did you hear that phrase?" another voice asked.
      Monroe and Ginny turned to see Mr. Harry Potter-Evans-Verres
      striding from his office. He was giving Monroe a very odd look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shrugged. "It's just … something I use to remind myself
      I've forgotten something," he replied. "If I find myself thinking
      it, it means I've been saying it over and over in my head, to
      remind myself that I've forgotten something, somehow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you remember what you forgot?" Potter asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, now that I've seen you, sir," Monroe answered. "I recall
      that we had an interview scheduled for today." He looked at Ginny.
      "I'm not sure why the young lady here was about to escort me to the
      exit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lunch is nearly over, anyway," Ginny said quickly. "We should
      probably reschedule the interview to another time — next week,
      perhaps?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter was still giving Monroe an odd look. "No," he said,
      slowly. "Now is as good a time as any. We can have something
      brought in." His expression suddenly became normal. "Does that
      sound good to you, Mr. Monroe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, sure," Monroe nodded, still looking a bit confused. "I'm
      game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They started toward the office door, but Monroe stopped, turning
      around. "My briefcase," he said, "I have some release forms for you
      to sign —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll take care of them after the interview," Potter said,
      smoothly. "Ginny, will you keep Mr. Monroe's briefcase at your
      desk, please?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," Ginny nodded. "I'm about to go to lunch, if that's
      okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter nodded. "Of course. Have a good lunch." He led Monroe
      back into his office. He gestured to the leather sofa and Monroe
      sat down at one end, while he took the other. "Our meals will be
      ready shortly," he told Monroe, settling back comfortably in the
      soft leather. "Meanwhile, we can get a little better acquainted. I
      suppose you know something about me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yes," Monroe agreed, smiling. "Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres, one of the ten richest individuals in the
      world, and the Chairman and CEO for the largest closely held
      corporation in the western hemisphere. You were adopted by the
      eminent Professor of biochemistry at Oxford, Michael Verres-Evans,
      and his wife Petunia Evans-Verres, thirty-five years ago after the
      death of your natural parents, James and Lily Potter, in some kind
      of car accident, is that correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Old news, of course," he said, almost
      dismissively. "I'm sure that's not what your readers at
      <em class="calibre7">Singularity Today</em> want to hear about, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A little human interest never hurts," Monroe pointed out.
      "People would be interested in your sleep-cycle disorder, for
      example, and how you manage to deal with it with your busy
      schedule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do okay," Harry replied, shortly. "Before we begin the
      interview, I do have a few questions for <em class="calibre7">you</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Monroe looked bemused. "Questions about the interview,
      I presume?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry shook his head. "Questions about you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe laughed nervously. "I thought I was interviewing
      <em class="calibre7">you</em>, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled disarmingly. "Think of it as getting to know me
      better by telling me about yourself," he suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shifted on the couch, looking thoughtful. "What would you
      like to know about me?" he asked, a bit of worry in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held up a placating hand. "Oh, nothing deep or dark, Mr.
      Monroe! We're just getting a little better acquainted. I think it
      will help break the ice between us during the interview. For
      example, how did you come up with that mnemonic you mentioned
      earlier, that 'recognition code 927, I am a potato'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked nonplussed for a few moments. "I never thought
      about it," he said at last. "It's just a mnemonic phrase I
      use."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why <em class="calibre7">that</em> particular phrase?" Harry pressed. "Did
      you ever hear someone mention it before you used it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it important?" Monroe asked in a puzzled tone. "I don't see
      what your interest —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a soft chime that seemed to come from the middle of
      the room, although Monroe didn't see anything there that could have
      made the sound. In the ceiling, perhaps?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood and moved toward the bookcases. Monroe stood as
      well, but didn't move; he watched as Harry approached one of the
      bookcases. Harry reached into the bookcase, and two of the sets of
      shelves opened outward, revealing a hidden room. "That's pretty
      cool," Monroe said, sounding impressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lunch is served," Harry said, gesturing toward the room with a
      slight bow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Come into my parlor</em>, was Monroe's sudden impulsive
      thought, but he smiled at the invitation and entered the room. It
      wasn't large, but there was a polished cherry dinner table and four
      chairs in the middle, with a server along one wall. In the far
      corner there was another door, but it was closed. One the table
      were two place settings, meals already in place with steam rising
      from the food. A basket of rolls and two decanters were placed
      between the plates.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At another gesture from Harry, Monroe sat down in the nearest
      chair, then glanced at his meal. On his plate was a filet mignon,
      bacon wrapped around the edge, and cognac sauce on top of it, along
      with a loaded baked potato and asparagus spears. "Filet mignon,"
      Monroe said as Harry took his seat opposite him. "Very nice. I'm
      surprised about the baked potato, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you would appreciate a 'meat and potatoes' lunch,"
      Harry said, preparing his napkin. "Considering that you're
      American."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked bemused. "Is my accent that bad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no," Harry demurred. "But I checked up on you," he added,
      reaching for a decanter. "Some wine with your steak?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded, an odd look on his face. As Harry poured the
      wine, he asked, "Checked up on <em class="calibre7">me</em>? For an
      <em class="calibre7">interview</em>?" He chuckled nervously. "Did I pass?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made an "ehh" gesture with his shoulders. "Not
      altogether," he replied, candidly. "Some details about your past
      are a bit sketchy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe leaned forward. "Some details about <em class="calibre7">your</em> past
      are sketchy as well, sir. For example the school you attended in
      Scotland between 1991 and 1998 — no one seems to know where it was,
      exactly, or even what its name was. You went right from there,
      wherever it was, into Oxford, where you graduated with an Executive
      MBA and a Masters in Theoretical Physics. In three years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was three and a half years," Harry noted. "I thought you
      were here to talk about the Singularity, Mr. Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So did I," Monroe retorted. "But you've got books in that
      bookcase out there on stuff like Transfiguration, Legilimency and
      Potioneering. None of that sounds like theoretical physics, and
      certainly not like business administration. What's all that
      about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I read a lot of different subjects," Harry explained, while
      simultaneously failing to explain. "Besides," he smiled thinly.
      "You weren't supposed to see those books — I would have removed
      them before inviting you into my office. But you decided not to
      wait for my invitation; I'm starting to wonder whether this
      interview is a good idea or not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's up to you," Monroe said, flatly. "But there
      <em class="calibre7">will</em> be an article in <em class="calibre7">Singularity Today</em> about
      you, one way or another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned back against the sofa. "That sounds pretty
      ominous," he remarked. "A threat?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More like a promise," Monroe replied. "My editor wants an
      article about your company, whether an interview with you is in it
      or not. If you want to let our readers know what your vision on the
      Singularity is and the role TBC will play in achieving it, you can
      agree to the interview. If not, well…" he shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled briefly. "More like a threat, then," he retorted.
      "I'll tell you what. I'll give the interview if you'll tell me
      where you heard that mnemonic you used earlier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shook his head. "Mr. Potter, I told you, I don't know
      where that came from!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ve haf vays uf makingk you tok," Harry sneered, in a bad German
      accent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked at him strangely. "You're kidding. That sounds
      like it's right out of Hogan's Heroes." Monroe wondered if Harry
      even knew the reference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking more like Jack Bauer," Harry replied. "If he was
      a German. And not very fluent in English. But I'm kidding, anyway —
      well, at least, mostly kidding. We <em class="calibre7">do</em> have a way to
      recover the memory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? TMS? Memory drugs?" Monroe looked apprehensive. "I'm not
      sure I can agree to anything like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's nothing like that, I assure you," Harry replied. "In fact,
      I believe you will find it quite interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe swallowed a mouthful of potatoes, then leaned forward.
      "Well, maybe we should start with that, so I'll know what I'm
      getting into."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put down his knife and fork, then steepled his fingers in
      front of him, staring at Monroe pensively. "Why don't we begin with
      the interview? <em class="calibre7">After</em> we finish our lunch, if you don't
      mind — I'm a bit hungry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi! Ginny!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny Thomas sighed and turned toward the café where her
      brother, sitting at an outside table, had just rather crudely and
      unnecessarily yelled to get her attention. "I saw you, Ron, you
      don't have to shout like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just wanted to be sure you saw me," Ron said, as she sat down
      opposite him. There was already a pot pie in front of him, half
      consumed, and a bottle of butterbeer (which, Ginny assumed, was not
      his first). "I ordered you a salad, like you said," he added. "But
      they kept it in the kitchen 'til you got here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Ginny snorted. "I've only got thirty minutes today."
      She slid her wand out of her skirt pocket and flicked it. A small
      parchment airplane popped out of the end and flew into the café,
      giving the servers notice she'd arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron laughed. "Come on — Harry gives you more time than that for
      lunch, doesn't he? We've sat here for <em class="calibre7">hours</em> before and you
      never seemed in a hurry then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have <em class="calibre7">work</em> to do, Ron," Ginny pointed out. "I can't
      always take however much time I want, just because Harry Potter is
      my boss. It's not like I'm working in that madhouse you, Fred and
      George started."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Weasleys' Wizarding Wheezes was a novelty business Fred and
      George started during their fourth year at Hogwarts, originally as
      a mail order service. By the end of their fifth year they'd worked
      out an arrangement with Harry Potter, who lent them enough money to
      rent out a store front in Diagon Alley and begin selling their
      wares in earnest. They'd become wildly successful, and after his
      fifth year Ron joined the business as a junior partner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Beats working in an office wearing a business suit ten or more
      hours a day," Ron retorted. "I couldn't work in an environment like
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, where you actually have to get something <em class="calibre7">done</em>
      every day," Ginny sniped, as a server brought out her salad and set
      it down in front of her, then hurried back inside before she got
      caught in the crossfire. The sometimes-heated brother-and-sister
      arguments of Ginny Thomas and Ron Weasley had become legend at the
      café, carrying over from their days at Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked indignant at her remark. "We get stuff done," he
      huffed. "I've been testing a box Fred came up with that you can use
      to record songs off the WWN and play again any time you want, just
      by tapping it with your wand and saying the name of the song."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny gave him an ironic look. "Muggles have had MP3 players for
      over 20 years, Ron. Most of the Muggleborns who come to work for us
      have one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever," Ron snorted. "Fred and George think they'll fly off
      the shelves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, everyone who wants to hear Celestina Warbeck sing her
      <em class="calibre7">Greatest Hits</em>," Ginny laughed. "Maybe Mum will buy one, if
      Fred and George don't give her one for her birthday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron was silent for a while, playing with his pot pie. He seemed
      to have lost his appetite. "So how is the Head-Boy-Who-Lived?" he
      finally asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still mad about <em class="calibre7">that</em>?" Ginny asked, with a vicious
      little sneer. "It's been nearly twenty years, Ronald."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not mad about it," Ron demurred. "It's just a joke, you
      know? Boy-Who-Lived — Head-Boy-Who-Lived. Get it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny rolled her eyes. "I got it back when Harry was made Head
      Boy over you in your final year. Not easy competing against him,
      was it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron was beginning to turn red. "<em class="calibre7">I'm not upset about
      it</em>," he growled, his tone clearly indicating otherwise. "Can
      we drop it, please?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You brought it up," Ginny pointed out. She leaned forward
      suddenly. "Oh, I was going to tell you — that writer for that
      Muggle magazine that's been wanting to interview him for, like,
      forever, came in again today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned, his anger forgotten. "He's a persistent one, isn't
      he? What did you do to him <em class="calibre7">now</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I Obliviated him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin's pants, Gin!" Ron exclaimed. "What for? I thought you
      said he was harmless!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Ginny leaned in closer, lowering her voice. "He sort of
      threatened to write a bad article about Harry in the magazine, if
      he didn't agree to be interviewed. I had to do something drastic to
      make him forget that. But then, something really strange
      happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stranger than Ginny Weasley Thomas busting a Memory Charm on a
      Muggle?" Ron looked amused. "You should have stayed with the
      Holyhead Harpies instead of going to Muggle business school,
      sis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well wait'll you hear," Ginny replied, her voice still low.
      "I'm escorting this guy out of Harry's office, after he <em class="calibre7">broke
      in</em> trying to find him and I Obliviated him, and he's trying to
      remember why he's there, and suddenly he says, 'I remember what it
      was: recognition code 927, I am a potato'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron spit out a mouthful of butterbeer; fortunately most of it
      missed Ginny. "You're kidding," he said, wiping his mouth as Ginny
      cursed and grabbed a napkin to wipe off her blouse. "Isn't that the
      phrase Harry used whenever he forgot something or thought he'd been
      Obliviated?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, exactly," Ginny said, still dabbing at her blouse. "Next
      time I'll wait until you're finished drinking! Anyway, I think it
      freaked Harry out, because he came out of his office and started
      talking to the guy, and they went back into his office to do the
      interview."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron sat back and laughed heartily. "So he finally got that
      interview out of Harry, did he?" Ron shook his head, still smiling
      after he finally stopped laughing. "You said it would rain purple
      dragon piss on London before he'd do that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny pointed a finger at him, her bright brown eyes flashing.
      "That's enough out of you," she snapped. "It was that damned
      recognition code!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron stopped grinning and took on a calculating look. "D'you
      think that writer found out about it somehow, and used it to get
      Harry's attention?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny nodded. "It had to have been. Harry knew the Muggle was
      there, he put his head out of the office and asked me for a report.
      I think he was just going to let the guy sit there all afternoon.
      But about half-past twelve the writer suddenly jumped up and just
      burst into Harry's office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where was Harry?" Ron asked. He lowered his voice. "Under that
      Invisibility Cloak of his?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think so," Ginny nodded. Her voice was equally quiet. "He
      couldn't have been in his lab, he wouldn't have — oh, hi!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked around quickly and involuntarily caught his breath.
      Standing nearby was Hermione Granger-Potter, smiling at the two of
      them. "Hi, Hermione," he said, with an involuntary squeak in his
      voice that made him wince. "Didn't, uh, see you there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just inside the café," Hermione smiled, with a nod toward
      the door she come out of. "I thought I heard you laughing,
      Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron smiled, looking a bit sheepish. Never, <em class="calibre7">ever</em>, if he
      lived to be a thousand years old, would he ever let on that he'd
      had (<em class="calibre7">had</em>?) a crush on Hermione Granger in school.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've just been talking about Harry," Ginny spoke up. She
      pushed one of the empty chairs at the table toward Hermione. "Want
      to join us?" she asked, with a sideways glance toward Ron to gauge
      his reaction. Never, <em class="calibre7">ever</em>, would she let on she knew about
      Ron's crush on Hermione. Especially not now, with her and Harry
      being married and all. It just wouldn't do to stir that pot, no
      matter how much she, Ginny, might want to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked apologetic. "I have to get back to the
      Ministry," she said. "I thought I would just get out of the office
      for a while, get some air. We had such a lovely time celebrating
      Harry's birthday yesterday I wanted to enjoy some real sunshine for
      a while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sunshine, huh?" Ron smiled. "That's appropriate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What -?" Hermione looked at him blankly for a moment, then
      laughed softly. "Oh yes. I'd forgotten about that." Which neither
      Ron nor Ginny believed for a moment — Hermione never forgot
      <em class="calibre7">anything</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should be getting back. You know how demanding the Minister
      is," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny rolled her eyes. "Yeah, we know," she said, with irony.
      Ron merely smiled, saying nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway," Hermione continued. "I'd better be going. I'll tell
      Harry tonight I saw you today, Ron — he tells me we never see
      anyone anymore, except Ginny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He may be late tonight," Ginny spoke up, as Hermione waved and
      began to turn away. "He's doing an interview with a magazine
      journalist right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Hermione looked surprised. "I thought he was holding
      out for an interview with one of the online news services, like
      BBCNet or CNNWorldNet. I wonder what changed his mind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…" Ginny gave her a long look. "This journalist used the
      phrase 'recognition code 927, I am a potato' in Harry's
      hearing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at her. "You're joking! Where could a Muggle
      have heard <em class="calibre7">that</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Ginny shook her head. "But I think Harry wanted
      to find out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, dear," Hermione said, unconsciously sitting down in the
      chair Ginny had originally offered her. "This has never happened
      before. Has it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think so," Ginny said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder what he's doing right now?" Hermione said, almost to
      herself, as she turned her head in the direction of Harry's office
      building, where TBC Enterprises was located. She had an impulse to
      Apparate directly into his office, and might have done so, except
      that (1) you couldn't Apparate into or out of Diagon Alley any more
      — entrance was strictly through the archway in the Leaky Cauldron's
      back courtyard, or through a Floo connection or Ministry-authorized
      Portkey; and (2) the entire floor where Harry's office was located
      had an Anti-Apparition Jinx on it as well as an Anti-Portkey Hex,
      and no Floo connections — you had to arrive on another floor then
      take the elevator up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's probably just giving that bloke a quick, meaningless
      interview," Ginny offered, sensing Hermione's consternation. "He
      wasn't really ready for an interview anyway, I think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True…" Hermione agreed, absently. "I'd advised him against it —
      he really needs to talk with one of the larger online news
      services, magazines don't reach enough people these days. But…that
      recognition code… I just don't know." She didn't want to say it
      aloud, but Hermione Granger-Potter was afraid that Chaos had just
      been let loose in their lives once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Author's Notes: The story begins on August 1, 2016, 35
      years after Harry's parents were murdered in Godric's Hollow, and
      25 years after Harry began studying at Hogwarts. Since the first 77
      chapters of Methods of Rationality have not even made it through
      Year One at Hogwarts, not all of the implied circumstances in this
      first chapter may pan out as written. The next chapter will be up
      in three weeks, so this story can alternate with Vampire's
      Assistant.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
