<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 10: The Source of Magic, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: The Source of Magic</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">
      Updated 3/17/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bastard! <em class="calibre7">Bastard</em>! BASTARD!<em class="calibre7">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" For a moment Draco Malfoy sat, mouth agape, dumbfounded
      by the sheer audacity of a man who would walk willingly into the
      lions' den of the Ministry of Magic, the very place that sought to
      capture him, and demand to see the Minister.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then his lips set in a thin, hard line. There was only one
      explanation for such boldness, such arrogance. <em class="calibre7">Granger was in
      on this somehow</em>! Draco's mind worked furiously, trying to see
      how he could manipulate the circumstances to his advantage. If only
      Crabbe and Goyle had captured Monroe <em class="calibre7">before</em> he walked into
      the Ministry! He could have made something out of Monroe's status
      as an unregistered, illegal wizard!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that opportunity had passed. Potter had something to do with
      this as well, of course — the note the Abbott woman had sent the
      Auror Department virtually put Potter and Monroe there together.
      The proprietress of The Leaky Cauldron understood who was calling
      the shots here at the Ministry. While Granger worked to "clean up"
      what she saw as a government riddled with corruption (herself and
      her supporters excepted of course), Draco had built alliances —
      uneasy ones, admittedly, based on influence and a <em class="calibre7">quid pro
      quo</em> mindset, but ones that worked for him and for his father.
      While Harry Potter was the de facto landlord of Diagon Alley these
      days, Draco Malfoy was the de facto rent and tax collector, and the
      shopkeepers there knew him as the man who kept Harry Potter's greed
      in check, allowing them to remain in business in spite of the
      strain Potter's rents and taxes put on them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, it would never do for them to know that most of the
      rent and tax gold Malfoy supposedly kept Potter from collecting had
      actually been put in place by men in the Ministry and Wizengamot
      that were beholden to Lord Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He probably wouldn't be able to charge Monroe for being in
      Britain illegally; Malfoy could see that even now, but he might be
      able to salvage something out of this, if he could get Monroe alone
      for a few minutes. That could be risky — if Potter suspected
      anything Draco's efforts would be in vain. But it was worth the
      risk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bare moment had passed while Draco calculated all this. His
      eyes, now as cold and gray as his father's, returned to the young
      Auror as his face went deceptively neutral. "Where is Monroe now?"
      he asked in a calm tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If the young Auror was surprised by her Head's sudden mood
      swing, she kept it carefully hidden. "He's, uh, at the Security
      Station, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has the Minister been informed yet?" Draco asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young woman's eyes were beginning to look panicked.
      <em class="calibre7">She's worried about giving me the wrong answer</em>, Draco
      could see it. It was true enough; if she'd walked in five minutes
      ago and given him bad news, he would have likely had her shipped
      off to the Transylvania detail monitoring vampire activity in that
      region. He let a small amount of warmth show in his face, then
      spoke. "It's okay, Zeller, I just need to know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chriss Zeller nodded, relieved something awful wasn't going to
      happen to her. "We sent Alfred up to let her know." Alfred was the
      guard manning the Atrium security station; he'd replaced Eric Munch
      a number of years ago when Munch "retired" after inadvertently
      detaining a newly-appointed Head Auror, whom he hadn't recognized.
      It was one of the few times Draco had acted without thinking — he'd
      been incensed that the man hadn't realized who he was and fired him
      on the spot. It would have severely crippled his future at the
      Ministry if Lord Malfoy hadn't "arranged" for Munch to return to
      his position after the "misunderstanding" with the new Head Auror.
      Malfoy had the matter cleared up, and Munch was put on medical
      leave until his retirement a month later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The story of Eric Munch was one of many Zeller had heard about
      her boss during her training period and the short time she'd worked
      in the Auror Department. She'd paled when the other Aurors had sent
      her to deliver the news about James Monroe to the Head. Zeller
      hoped her Occlumency training would hold as she asked, "Is there —
      is there anything else, sir?" hoping he was done with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that's all," Malfoy said, waving her away. "Dismissed."
      Zeller nodded again and quickly retreated from the office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the door closed Malfoy turned to Crabbe and Goyle; they
      had remained silent, wondering how the Head would react to the news
      of Monroe's arrival at the Ministry. It could not be good for
      either of them, both men knew. Draco had dearly wanted the
      information he suspected Monroe had on Potter's plans for him, and
      they had failed to deliver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Malfoy merely said, "I want you to put Monroe in an
      interrogation room — I don't care which one, but use the coin to
      let me know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe smiled thinly and nodded. The "coin" Draco referred to
      was a Galleon that had a Protean Charm on it, linked with a Galleon
      Draco kept with him at all times. Crabbe or Goyle could Transfigure
      their coins with a short message that would also appear on the
      Head's coin. It was a handy little device that ironically had been
      invented back in their school days by Hermione Granger, during the
      Very Bad Year when the Ministry had sent Dolores Umbridge to the
      school as its Defense professor, back when Cornelius Fudge
      suspected Dumbledore of mounting a takeover bid for the
      Ministry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That fear had been groundless, of course — Dumbledore was crazy
      but he wasn't stupid; for reasons Draco had never understood about
      the Headmaster, that old, powerful wizard had no ambition beyond
      running Hogwarts. In fact, after the crisis with You-Know-Who at
      the end of Draco's first year, he hardly seemed to have any
      ambition at all, at least until some years later, when he began
      inviting Harry Potter to his office more and more, for what purpose
      Draco had never managed to learn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, how Draco had wished he could have been a fly Animagus
      during those years! He'd desperately tried to find a way to spy on
      Potter and Dumbledore during those meetings — his father had
      actually given him permission to use whatever means he could to do
      so, short of becoming an Animagus. The consequences of being an
      unregistered Animagus were too severe (two years in Azkaban) if he
      were to be caught, and being a registered Animagus effectively
      negated any advantage of being able to take another form. His
      father had forbade him from learning how to become one, though
      Professor Snape had been willing to teach him — apparently Snape
      had his own agenda against Potter, though Draco had never found out
      about that, either. The last few years at Hogwarts were frustrating
      ones for Draco Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will do, Boss," Crabbe grunted, then both he and Goyle turned
      and left the office. Malfoy sat back in his chair, smiling slightly
      as he pulled the charmed Galleon from the hidden pocket where he
      kept it. As soon as they let him know where Monroe was, he would
      use the secret passage from his office to the interrogation area.
      And <em class="calibre7">then</em> he would set things in motion to bring Harry
      Potter down, once and for all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe sat in the uncomfortable wooden chair he'd been shoved
      at, watching the two large Aurors he'd so neatly avoided the
      previous evening. Both men's expressions were carefully neutral,
      unlike the first time he'd been in an interrogation room with them.
      Monroe supposed that they were keeping their emotions in check, for
      which he was grateful. It wasn't difficult to imagine they harbored
      some hard feelings about last night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The larger of the two men moved casually out of view, reaching
      into a pocket as he did so. Monroe glanced at the other Auror, the
      one with coarse, bristle-like hair, then down toward his feet,
      though his head was turned enough that from the corner of his
      vision he saw the larger Auror tapping something in his hand with
      his wand. A moment later both hands disappeared momentarily into
      the large Auror's pockets, and he sauntered back into Monroe's
      field of vision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did a pretty good job evading us last night," he said, in a
      tone more friendly than Monroe would have expected. "You were
      pretending to be Dedalus Diggle when we walked in, weren't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course." Monroe saw no reason to lie now. "I knew the owner
      had turned me in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?" the smaller Auror asked, genuine curiosity in his
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was watching me as I went up to my room," Monroe answered.
      "There was more than idle interest in her eyes. I might have been
      wrong, but it seemed prudent to take precautions against anyone
      from the Auror Department showing up at my door that night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what was Harry Potter's role in all this?" Crabbe, the
      larger Auror asked, a touch of impatience in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe raised an eyebrow at the question. "Potter? I haven't
      seen Harry Potter since I left his office on August first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sure about that?" a new but familiar voice asked. Monroe
      turned his head but the person speaking was already behind him. "We
      have information that you saw him just yesterday, at the Weasleys'
      shop in Diagon Alley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was at the shop when I was there," Monroe admitted, with a
      shrug. "But he was having lunch upstairs with the Weasley boys,
      their wives told me. I was just there because I recognized the name
      from my time at Hogwarts. It was a coincidence that Potter was
      there at the same time. But he never came down to see me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not what they told us," the familiar voice behind him
      disagreed. Malfoy moved into his field of vision. "Are you sure you
      want to go with that story?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I'm sure," Monroe said, calmly. That was the story Harry
      told him to go with — it was obvious Malfoy was trying to trip him
      up. A magical examination of the shop could put both Harry and
      Monroe at the shop at the same time, but it could not prove they
      spoke to one another. Veritaserum might prove it, but Monroe had
      already taken the antidote for that, and his Occlumency shields
      were firmly in place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Malfoy said, turning toward Crabbe, his body hiding the
      coded hand gesture he made toward the large Auror. He stepped out
      of view behind Monroe once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe stepped forward and leaned down, putting his face inches
      from Monroe's. "You think you're pretty smart, don't you?" he
      sneered. "Suppose we told you we have recordings of you and Potter
      talking at the Weasley shop. What would you say <em class="calibre7">then</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd say produce them," Monroe answered. Harry was too cautious
      for something like that, never mind the Weasley brothers allowing
      Ministry bugs in their shop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe we will, at your trial," Goyle leaned down into Monroe's
      face as well. "It won't go well for you if you say you're innocent
      and we produce that recording."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind them, Malfoy had silently taken out his wand and was
      pointing it at Monroe. He wordlessly cast the Ministry Trace spell
      on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre7">Trace</em> was a spell placed on every newborn witch or
      wizard, a spell that allowed the Ministry to track their location
      and alert them whenever magic was cast by them or around them.
      Normally, it broke automatically when the witch or wizard reached
      their majority, seventeen years of age, and could not be cast on an
      adult wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This</em> spell, however, had been specially developed by
      the Department of Mysteries to allow special surveillance of
      witches or wizards operating undercover to locate Dark Wizards and
      those suspected of other high crimes. It allowed the Ministry to
      listen in on conversations in the vicinity of the bewitched wizard,
      and was effective through nearly every ward or anti-detection
      spell. No one outside the highest levels of the Auror Department
      knew the spell existed; not even the Minister of Magic herself was
      privy to its existence. This spell would give Draco the advantage
      he needed — the ability to hear firsthand what Potter and Monroe
      were talking about. Harry Potter's interest in this wizard had gone
      completely out of proportion for a mere former classmate that had
      been posing as a Muggle for the past twenty-odd years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose that's a chance I'll have to take," Monroe replied,
      in a dry voice, looking directly into Crabbe's beady eyes. The two
      men stared at each other for several long seconds. Behind them, the
      door to the room opened and closed, and there was a muted
      conversation. Finally Crabbe sneered and stepped back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I guess you will," he said. He looked up at Malfoy. "Any
      other questions for him, sir?" he asked, already knowing the
      answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…No," Malfoy finally said, sounding disappointed. "I've just
      been notified that this man has been duly registered as a wizard in
      Great Britain, retroactive to his original entry into our
      jurisdiction five years ago, and the charges have been dropped.
      He's free to leave under his own recognizance. Turn him loose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy walked quickly out of the room, smiling as he made his
      way back to his office. Everything was in place now — he would soon
      find out what Potter and Monroe were up to!</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was waiting for Monroe beneath his Invisibility Cloak near
      the Ministry's visitor entrance — a red telephone box on a
      little-traveled street that it shared with a pub, a few abandoned
      offices, and a nearby wall covered in graffiti. It had changed
      little in the time since Harry had first visited the Ministry,
      years earlier. He was under the Cloak in case someone emerged from
      the telephone box along with Monroe — like an Auror detail
      Disillusioned to follow him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(In his office, Draco tapped one of his desk drawers, invoking a
      charm that unlocked the drawer for him alone. Reaching into the
      drawer, he took out a small cube and placed it on his desktop, then
      tapped the cube, linking it with the charm he had placed on Monroe
      minutes earlier. He would now be able to hear everything spoken by
      Monroe and anyone near him.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe stepped out of the phone box alone, looking around
      expectantly. "Harry?" he muttered softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here," Harry answered, softly, moving closer to Monroe. "Let's
      walk a bit — I want to be well away from this area before we
      talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco smiled. So Potter <em class="calibre7">was</em> waiting for Monroe outside
      the Ministry! Things were working out exactly as he'd hoped.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded and walked casually up the street to the first
      intersection, then turned west as he felt Harry's hand on his
      elbow, invisibly directing him to turn that way. He immediately
      recognized the direction. "Are we heading to —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shhh," Harry shushed him. The invisible hand guided him again.
      "Just in here," Harry said, maneuvering Monroe into a small alley
      between two buildings. As they stepped into the shadows the Cloak
      suddenly covered Monroe and Harry took Monroe's hand, placing it on
      his arm. "Side-Along," he said shortly. The arm twisted away from
      Monroe, and he followed it —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The uncomfortable sensation of Apparition engulfed them for
      several moments, and they found themselves on another, familiar
      street, staring at a shabby door located between book and record
      shops on either side of it. Monroe had emerged from that door only
      hours earlier, evading Aurors who had arrived to take him into
      custody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe turned to Harry. "Are we going in?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a bit," Harry said. "As soon as someone goes in or leaves —
      I don't want us to be seen together right now, not so soon after
      your charges were dropped. Malfoy didn't protest that nearly as
      much as I expected him to. I wonder why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(<em class="calibre7">Of course you do</em>, Draco thought smugly. He could guess
      where Potter had taken them — he was heading toward Weasleys'
      Wizard Wheezes!)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Monroe waited near the entrance to the Leaky Cauldron
      for several minutes before they saw a familiar figure walking up
      Charing Cross Road toward them. Both men immediately recognized
      Dedalus Diggle, a regular patron of the Cauldron. This afternoon,
      however, Diggle's normally cheerful demeanor was absent, replaced
      with a sober expression from his recent misadventures with Ministry
      Aurors. A few pedestrians on the street did double takes at his
      robe, cloak and top hat, but they quickly lost interest as Diggle
      passed them. There were much stranger things to be seen on the
      streets of London these days. Looking neither right nor left,
      Diggle entered the Leaky Cauldron, with Harry and Monroe hard on
      his heels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pointed to the back of the shop and they wasted no time
      making their way into the courtyard where the entrance to Diagon
      Alley awaited them. Taking out his wand, Harry tapped the third up,
      second across from the lone dustbin standing against the wall,
      which began to shift and transform into the archway leading into
      Diagon Alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco rubbed his hands together gleefully. Potter and Monroe
      <em class="calibre7">were</em> heading to the Weasley shop, he just knew it — they
      undoubtedly planned to resume whatever conversation they had
      started there just a few days earlier. <em class="calibre7">This</em> time, however,
      they would have one more person listening in than they
      expected!)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was slow going under the Invisibility Cloak with two grown
      men beneath it, but Harry had insisted they stay Cloaked until
      reaching their destination. They moved along Diagon Alley, staying
      as far as possible from other visitors wandering, standing or
      window-shopping. It made for a meandering path, as people tended
      not to move aside for people they could not see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gringotts was in sight when Harry suddenly turned down a tiny
      byway some distance before and across from the Wizarding bank. They
      came to a halt, and Monroe looked around; nothing nearby looked
      familiar. "Why are we stopping here?" he asked, but Harry merely
      shook his head before slipping out from under the Cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll be back in a minute or two," he said, to apparently empty
      air. "Stay here until I come for you." Harry disappeared back into
      Diagon Alley proper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco smiled in anticipation. He's probably making sure the
      coast was clear at Weasleys' before they arrived there.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reappeared a few minutes later. "Our reservation is
      ready," he said. "I want you to stay under the Cloak, however. I'll
      tell the staff I expect you shortly, but that they should only
      disturb me when you arrive. That should give us enough time for us
      to discuss what I want to talk to you about. Come on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry led the way through a an oaken door into a very nice
      dining establishment. "Potter, party of two for Mary's Room," he
      told the hostess. "The other member of my party has not arrived
      yet, but should be along shortly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco's smile faded. Mary's Room? He wondered anxiously if the
      Trace spell would work through the walls of that room. As far as he
      remembered, no one who'd been Traced had ever had a conversation in
      that room.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hostess escorted Harry (and the Cloaked Monroe) through the
      restaurant's main dining area to the room, where Mary, the owner
      herself, greeted Harry and bowed him into the room. Harry hesitated
      only a moment, which Monroe took as his cue and quietly slipped
      into the room ahead of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When do you expect the other party, Mr. Potter?" Mary asked,
      respectfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a busy man," Harry had said casually. "I hope he will make
      it within the hour. He said to go ahead and order for him, so we'll
      both have today's lunch special and ever-filling mugs of Merlin's
      Best Mead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please bring the meals in when they're ready, but don't
      interrupt me otherwise until he arrives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I ask who the other party is?" Mary inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Head Auror Draco Malfoy," Harry smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco's eyes widened in horror. That <em class="calibre7">bastard</em>!)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mary bowed and left, shutting the door quietly behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(How many people would hear, before the end of the day, that
      Harry Potter and Draco Malfoy were supposed to meet at Mary's
      Place, Draco wondered, quivering with fury. Potter had effectively
      undermined Draco's credibility in a lot of wizarding circles with
      that statement — fortunately <em class="calibre7">not</em> among many that mattered,
      but a lot of people would no longer mistrust Potter quite so much
      nor fear and respect the Head Auror as greatly as they did now, not
      if they thought there was some kind of collaboration between him
      and the Boy-Who-Lived.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gestured silently for Monroe to take the chair at the
      opposite end of the table. Harry then put a finger to his lips,
      motioning for Monroe to remain silent. He sat down in the chair
      nearest the door, took out his wand, and waved it at the door. The
      handle turned on its own and the door opened slightly. Harry then
      looked about the room as if he were quite alone. "I wonder if Draco
      will get here any time soon," he said, as if ruminating aloud.
      "He'll like today's special, I hope." Under the Cloak, Monroe was
      regarding him bemusedly. Was Harry speaking for Monroe's
      benefit?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Bastard! <em class="calibre7">Bastard</em>! BASTARD! Malfoy thought furiously as
      he listened to Harry's taunting words. He <em class="calibre7">knew</em> something
      was going on with Monroe! Why else would he have gone to Mary's
      Place? On the other hand, the Trace was working through the
      enchantment on Mary's Room, which was good news for Malfoy — either
      Potter or Monroe <em class="calibre7">might</em> let something slip while they were
      talking, if they thought Mary's Room was secure from any kind of
      scyring.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe, waiting silently beneath the Cloak of Invisibility,
      pondered what Harry was up to. <em class="calibre7">Why</em> open the door slightly?
      Wasn't the point of Mary's Room to cut off all communication,
      mundane or magical, with the outside world? And why tell the staff
      here that Malfoy was his expected guest? Did Harry think Malfoy was
      somehow monitoring them? If he <em class="calibre7">was</em> monitoring them, Malfoy
      was now aware that they knew that!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty minutes or so after they'd entered the room, a knock at
      the door announced a server arriving with two of the lunch
      specials. "Come," Harry said, and the server entered, staring back
      at the door as she did so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir, I apologize," she said as she set Harry's plate in front
      of him. "The door was apparently left open. I…" she trailed off,
      not certain what to say. Visitors to Mary's Room expected perfect
      privacy — the open door was a breach of that implied contract.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked back at the door as if the fact that it was open
      was news to him, but didn't appear upset by it. "It's alright," he
      told the server. "My guest hasn't shown up yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you like me to keep your plates hot while you wait, sir?"
      the server asked, relieved that the customer was not making trouble
      about the open door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you can leave them both here," Harry said. The server
      nodded and placed the second plate in front of the empty chair at
      the opposite end. "If my guest arrives before I finish," Harry
      reminded her, "please show him in, but don't disturb me for
      anything else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The server nodded, bowed, and retreated, closing the door
      carefully behind her. Harry waved his wand at the door again, and
      this time the inner bolt slid into black with a loud
      <em class="calibre7">clack</em>. Harry then spoke no less than twenty-seven charms,
      providing even more protection against scrying and other situations
      that would compromise their privacy, while Monroe waited silently
      for him to finish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco listened anxiously as Harry spoke the spells one by one.
      The Trace should be able to work through any charm, seeing as it
      was already within the protection established by Mary's Room and
      whatever wards Potter added. There was no known way for anyone to
      detect the Trace — you just had to know it was there. But until
      Harry finished with his wards, and Draco could still hear him,
      there was no knowing if he was going to be in on their conversation
      or not.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry finished the twenty-seventh spell, but his wand kept
      moving in intricate patterns — once, twice, thrice, as he silently
      performed three final spells, then put away his wand. Looking
      toward the other end of the table, he explained. "In case you've
      never heard of Mary's Place, as well as being a very fine Wizarding
      restaurant, it also has this room, called Mary's Room, a place
      where people can go to have <em class="calibre7">very</em> private conversations. My
      wife and I use it from time to time — not so much because we need
      to have very private conversations as to have some 'alone time' for
      just the two of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice," Monroe said, still beneath the Cloak. "But I assume this
      is not 'alone time' for me and you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled, but only for a moment. "I have a more practical
      reason for being here. There's a longstanding rumor that the
      Ministry has a special surveillance spell it can place on wizards
      they want to eavesdrop on. The spell cannot be detected by any
      spell or device currently known, so we have no way to check for it.
      But I would bet a hundred Galleons that it's been placed on
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe took off the Invisibility Cloak. "That seems reasonable,
      especially since I was held in an interrogation room for a while
      before they released me. Malfoy showed up to question me before he
      got the news that the charges were dropped. He stayed behind me
      most of the time he was in the room. I suppose he could have put
      that spell on me then." Irritation was audible in his voice. "There
      has to be a way to get rid of it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not," Harry said. "A spell like that probably has a
      very complicated countercurse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(<em class="calibre7">It did</em>, Malfoy thought, grinning once again. Their
      voices were still coming in loud and clear—confirmation that the
      Trace would work in Mary's Room, even with every spell Potter could
      throw at it!)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry touched his left index finger to his lips as his right
      hand silently drew his wand again. The wand traced a complicated
      pattern in the air in front of him as Harry completed a series of
      patterns. He then put the wand away again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That last spell I just cast was a Gibberspeak Charm — a spell
      similar to one I learned back at Hogwarts, one called
      Muffliato."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remember learning Muffliato sometime in second year," Monroe
      recalled. "But I've never heard of Gibberspeak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's one of my own," Harry said. "I've kept it as secret as
      Malfoy thinks his Trace spell is. It can be cast on a group of
      people — it makes their speech unintelligible to anyone outside the
      group. If Malfoy can hear us now, he has no idea what we're
      saying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">("What the hell is going on?" Draco muttered to himself.
      "<em class="calibre7">What are they saying</em>?" He took out his wand again,
      casting several spells designed to detect and end cryptography
      spells. Nothing worked. Whatever spell Potter had just cast, Draco
      couldn't find a way to break or dispel it, at least not from this
      distance.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Assuming Malfoy <em class="calibre7">can</em> hear us," Monroe pointed out, "do
      you really still want to talk about whatever we came here to
      discuss, even if he can't understand us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know." Harry had a bemused look on his face. "On the
      one hand, it's funny that Malfoy is probably frantically trying to
      figure out what we're saying right now. I know my spell can be
      broken by brute force, but the person trying to break it has to be
      in my physical presence. He'll have to come here to do that, but if
      he shows up now everyone in Diagon Alley will know he was here to
      dine with me (because the staff here has undoubtedly heard by now
      whom I'm expecting); it will damage his reputation as a champion of
      the small businessman. A lot of shopkeepers think Draco is
      protecting them from me and my 'underhanded Muggle business
      practices.' If they think we're in cahoots he becomes just another
      Ministry Auror on the take."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And on the other hand, as you pointed out, it's not very secure
      allowing him to hear <em class="calibre7">anything</em> we say that we might not
      want him to overhear," Harry continued, drumming his fingers
      absently on the table, pondering which way to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Draco smacked the gibberish-emitting cube off his desk in
      frustration. He briefly considered sending Crabbe and Goyle to
      Mary's Place, to drag Potter and Monroe back down to Ministry HQ,
      but that would only tip Potter off that he was monitoring them
      somehow, and he didn't want <em class="calibre7">that</em>. He pointed his wand at
      the cube. "<em class="calibre7">Accio</em> <em class="calibre7">cube</em>," he muttered, and it flew
      into his hand. He dropped it into his special drawer and began
      considering his next move. Then he reached in the drawer and
      removed the cube, setting it on the desk before him again. Draco
      just couldn't not listen, even if he couldn't understand a thing
      they were saying.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked down at the food in front of him. "Do you mind if
      I eat while you make up your mind?" he asked. "I haven't had a bite
      since last night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll join you," Harry said, and they both tucked into the meals
      before them, eating in silence for several minutes. The special for
      the day was delicious, a meat and pasta dish that resembled chicken
      alfredo except that the meat wasn't chicken, the pasta wasn't
      fettuccini, and the sauce wasn't alfredo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe had almost finished off his repast when Harry looked up
      and asked, "Have you ever heard of a 'Source of Magic'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe's last forkful of pasta stopped before entering his
      mouth. "A source of magic? Hmm, I guess I haven't. They never
      talked about that at Salem Institute. Where'd you hear of it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's something I worked out on my own," Harry said. "I wanted
      to talk to you about it, but I have to fill in some
      background."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Malfoy —?" Monroe queried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco actually helped me with some of this back then," Harry
      said, a small smile on his face at the memory. In fact, I'm not
      altogether sure he doesn't know about my thinking on the Source of
      Magic. But he's listening to gibberish right now, if he can hear
      anything at all, so I'm not worried about him overhearing
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe cocked his head at Harry. "That's a bit arrogant, isn't
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I'm nothing if not arrogant," Harry laughed. "I'm trying
      to single-handedly bring about the Magical Singularity, aren't I?
      Do you want to hear this or not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe swallowed his last mouthful of pasta. "Sure, why not?" he
      said around the mouthful. "We're already here, aren't we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry agreed, then paused to marshal his thoughts. "You
      know something about genetics, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Monroe nodded. "Most people do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not most wizards, even today," Harry pointed out. "Most of them
      have never heard of DNA, have no idea what Mendelian genetics is,
      much less genomics and proteomics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, back in 1991, shortly after I started at Hogwarts, I began
      to wonder why wizards had to perform spells with <em class="calibre7">exactly</em>
      the correct pronunciation and <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> the right wand
      gestures for them to work correctly. I even designed experiments
      that had test subjects say the spells with slightly different
      emphasis on the syllables than the right pronunciations, to see if
      it caused any difference."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it did, of course," Monroe said, smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry sighed, remembering those tests with no small
      amount of chagrin. Hermione had teased him unmercifully after the
      month-long gamut of experiments he'd designed became moot after
      only one test session.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what did that have to do with the Source of Magic?" Monroe
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll get to that," Harry replied. "After that fiasco, I had a
      chat with Draco Malfoy about blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blood…" Monroe repeated, thinking about how things had been,
      back at Hogwarts in 1991. The Slytherins had made things difficult
      throughout the year, bullying and harassing other students,
      especially Muggleborns and half-bloods. "There was some talk around
      that time about blood purity and how certain people, Muggles for
      example, and Muggleborn wizards were less pure than regular
      wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy, and of course his father, and quite a few Slytherins at
      the time, both at Hogwarts and across Wizarding Britain, subscribed
      to the notion of 'blood purity,'" Harry said. "I was working on
      trying to turn Draco from that type of thinking, so I set up a
      little experiment for us to run, one that I expected would render
      him incapable of becoming a Death Eater when he got old enough, and
      possibly to turn him from the Dark completely. The experiment was
      to determine why magic seemed to be fading in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We came up with some hypotheses about that," Harry went on.
      "Things like, 'Magic is fading away.' Draco <em class="calibre7">hated</em> that
      one, by the way. He thought it wouldn't be fair if
      <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> was losing magic, not just Muggleborns. His
      favorite theory was that wizards were interbreeding with Muggles,
      reducing blood purity. That was a major plank in Voldemort's
      campaign against Dumbledore, by the way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We also came up with some other hypotheses like, wizards
      weren't eating right, or Muggle technology was interfering with
      magic somehow. We even suggested that powerful wizards like
      Dumbledore or Voldemort weren't having children and so magic was
      decreasing by not being passed down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some interesting ideas," Monroe noted. "It must have taken
      quite a while to work through all those experiments."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scratched his head, looking a bit sheepish. "Well,
      actually, we only did one set of experiments, taking a little more
      than an hour, before we found enough data to confirm one of our
      hypotheses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you were doing this just to trick Draco?" Monroe chuckled.
      "You must've gotten <em class="calibre7">awfully</em> lucky with that data!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had a sneaking hunch it would go my way," Harry replied.
      "Being a wizard didn't seem to have anything to do with a complex
      of genes — it was more reasonable to assume that a <em class="calibre7">single</em>
      gene pair controlled the ability to do magic, since there are only
      Muggles, Squibs, and wizards, and Muggleborn wizards could be as
      powerful as pure-blood ones. There are only four possible choices
      with a single gene pair, and in half the cases you get a person
      carrying one wizard gene and one non-wizard gene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I sent Draco out to question the portraits in Hogwarts about
      families of wizards and how many wizards and Squibs were produced
      by those families. I talked to portraits too, but about spells that
      could be cast in the past but not today. As it turned out, that's
      when I found out about the Interdict of Merlin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which may have been as big a blunder on Merlin's part as
      Einstein thought his cosmological constant was," noted Monroe,
      plaintively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It hasn't made things any easier for us," Harry agreed. "But
      I've thought about that a bit more, and I wonder if he did that to
      keep the balance between wizards and Muggles. If we had access to
      the same spells and potions that must've existed 800 years ago,
      with all that time for more progress, we wizards might be running
      the galaxy by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possibly," Monroe admitted. "Or wizards might have destroyed
      the earth by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, a sad look in his eyes. "I've thought of that,
      too. On the one hand, it seems a waste, but on the other, it may
      have kept us all alive until now. But then, Muggle technology has
      long had the capability of destroying the Earth as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet we're still here." Monroe smiled. "Crazy Muggles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed, but for only a moment. "As I was saying," he went
      on, "Draco and I applied our test results to the hypotheses we'd
      come up with, and the one that looked most plausible was that we
      were losing information about magic spells because of the
      Interdict. <em class="calibre7">Not</em> because magic itself was going away, or
      because 'blood purity' was being diluted. It was a serious blow to
      Draco's worldview — he pretty much expected to become a Death Eater
      like his father. But once he knew the truth, knew that Voldemort's
      opposition to Dumbledore was predicated on a lie, he realized he
      could never become a <em class="calibre7">real</em> Death Eater. If he became one at
      all it would be only to keep up appearances. Ironically, he
      attributed this change in outlook to a Dark ritual he thought I
      tricked him into being a part of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I'd expect from someone like him," Monroe said, his
      voice hard. "He seems like quite the opportunist. He must expect
      everyone else to be the same way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm <em class="calibre7">not</em> going to be his apologist," Harry said,
      his voice firm. "But he <em class="calibre7">had</em> been indoctrinated his whole
      life with ideas of blood purity and the innate superiority of
      wizard-kind over the rest of humanity. Hell, one of his goals was
      to rape Luna Weasley when he got old enough! And he thought himself
      perfectly justified in doing so — not because he thought rape was
      okay, but because he thought himself and his family were above the
      law."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now that person is the head law enforcer in wizarding
      Britain," Monroe added, grimly. "Who the hell approved
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> promotion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry barked a short laugh. "Hermione did, actually," he said,
      "at my suggestion. 'Keep your friends close…'" he quoted, letting
      the rest trail off unsaid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was silent for some time, looking thoughtful. Harry
      watched him for a time. Then, "What are you thinking about,
      James?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shifted uncomfortably in his chair. "It's not that I'm
      ungrateful," he began, "But —" he looked at Harry with a very
      ambivalent expression. "When we first met, I don't think you wanted
      anything more from me than to learn where I'd heard your
      recognition code phrase. We obviously weren't friends then. But
      now—" Monroe gestured at the room they were in. "Now we're having
      dinner at Mary's Place, and you've told me you're trying to create
      a Magical Singularity, and I seem to be in your confidence now. So,
      I suppose I'm wondering…just…what the <em class="calibre7">hell</em> happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat back and steepled his fingers, tapping them against
      his lips for some time before answering. "You're wondering when I
      began to —" Harry thought for a moment, "— trust you, I suppose."
      Monroe nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't trusted anyone in a long time," Harry went on. "Not
      even Hermione, not completely, though I trust her more than anyone
      else on Earth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe thought about that, then asked, "What have I done, then,
      to earn your trust thus far?" He gave Harry an even look. "For my
      part, I haven't sought it out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry returned his look. "I know. Perhaps that's in part how
      you've earned it. I haven't treated you that well these past few
      days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've noticed <em class="calibre7">that</em>," Monroe answered, and both men
      chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry became thoughtful once again. "I suppose I was impressed
      with you," he told Monroe, "when you won our duel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shook his head slightly. "I think that was mostly luck,"
      he said, not looking in Harry's direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps, but it was still impressive," Harry averred. "I've had
      dueling lessons from both Professor Flitwick and Professor
      Dumbledore. Both of them were formidable opponents, but I learned
      to hold my own against both of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you beat me, it made me realize that there are always
      other ways to solve a problem, other ways to see your way through
      to a solution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe chuckled. "And here I thought I was kicking your ass," he
      said, but it was obvious he wasn't serious. He fell silent, and the
      two men looked at each other for some time before Harry spoke
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we should get on with what I brought you here to talk
      about," Harry said. "The Source of Magic." Monroe leaned forward
      interestedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I had learned that there was only one thing that made you a
      wizard," Harry resumed. "A single allele that controlled whether
      you were a Muggle, a Squib, or a wizard. But that single allele, in
      and of itself, does not give you magical powers. Magic has to come
      from somewhere else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was listening, fascinated, to what Harry was saying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If there was a combination of alleles," Harry continued, "a
      complex combination of alleles, it would be universal. Complex
      systems are always universal in a sexually reproducing species.
      They have to be, since each piece of the mechanism has to become
      nearly universal in a species before another variant of a gene can
      start to depend on that universality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If magic had been like that, a complex mechanism with many
      necessary genes and alleles, a wizard mating with a Muggle would
      only get about half of those genes, and half of the machine
      wouldn't be much good. And it would be very unlikely for a wizard,
      a Muggleborn, to be born to two half-wizards, to Squibs. What made
      you a wizard couldn't be very complicated, because we can see that
      people who weren't magical could produce magical children."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned back, rubbing the sides of his face with his hands.
      He was getting closer to the culmination of his argument, and he
      wanted to be sure Monroe understood it clearly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But magic itself seems pretty complicated," Harry went on.
      "Look at how complicated the Fidelius Charm is just to
      <em class="calibre7">cast</em>, never mind the dynamics of how it operates! I had a
      spell cast on me once by Draco Malfoy, a torture curse that he
      thought might kill me. He magically locked me in a room afterwards,
      and I wasn't able to unlock the door or Transfigure the hinges to
      get out. I was barely able to escape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe raised an eyebrow at this. That could explain a lot of
      things about the way Harry talked about Malfoy, and why he was
      talking about these things even though Malfoy might be listening to
      them right now, Gibberish Charm or no.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the look. "Right. Well, I won't get into the specifics
      of that right now, but he was pretty pissed off at me, and he
      thought I had planned the entire thing with the blood experiments
      to keep him from becoming a Death Eater and to distance him from
      his father."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you <em class="calibre7">did</em> do it for those reasons," Monroe pointed
      out. "You said so earlier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did," Harry agreed. "I didn't think it would happen so fast,
      though. I needed more time to acclimate Draco to the idea of
      scientific thinking, to not being so disappointed when his pet
      theory turned out to be false. But I didn't get that chance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, I realized there are only two ways that complexity is
      created — through a non-purposeful process like natural selection,
      which has created butterflies and thinking humans, and through
      purposeful, creative intent — through some form of intelligent
      design."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're thinking magic was <em class="calibre7">designed</em>?" Monroe put in,
      sounding dubious. "I don't know if I believe that's possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry was surprised and a bit disappointed to hear
      that. He had thought Monroe would instantly agree with the idea. "I
      can't see how it <em class="calibre7">couldn't</em> have been, myself. Magic spells
      are complicated enough to do whatever we need them to do. We can
      modify spells, customize them to almost any degree we need to, if
      we work on them long enough. Or, at least until they get powerful
      enough to invoke the Interdict — that's our upper limit, and I
      believe that's what's saved us from the fate of Atlantis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both of Monroe's eyebrows rose at this. "Atlantis is just a
      legend," he objected. "No one has found the least indication of
      where it was located, nor any type of record dating to that
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mouth set in a thin line, eerily reminiscent of a
      certain Hogwarts Deputy Headmistress. That was the major sticking
      point in his theory — no one had produced any concrete, empirical
      evidence that Atlantis really existed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Otherwise it made perfect sense, though! "But you agree that the
      spells we use aren't complicated enough by themselves to build up
      the spell effects from scratch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe thought for a second. "Yeah, I agree. I've wondered about
      that myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"DNA is complicated enough, with three billion base pairs, to
      describe a human body," Harry argued. "Computer programs, taking up
      megabytes of memory, are complicated enough to create word
      processing and spreadsheet programs, and more complicated
      applications as well. So the words of a spell are more like a
      button on your keyboard than a blueprint for a spell. You push a
      button and the application performs a function using the
      programming it's comprised of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took out his wand and waved it at his plate, saying
      "<em class="calibre7">Wingardium Leviosa</em>." The plate floated in the air.
      "That's what I think the Source of Magic is," he said, as the plate
      slowly floated back onto the table. "It's some type of mechanism
      that reacts by levitating an object when someone with a specific
      genetic marker says 'Wingardium Leviosa' directed toward that
      object." He waited for Monroe's reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was silent for some time, resting his chin on his hand as
      he thought about what Harry had said, staring at Harry's plate now
      resting once again in front of him. At length he asked, in a flat
      tone, "How did you test all this, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of the reasons I've been gathering ancient wizarding
      books," Harry replied, "is to look for references to Atlantis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Find anything?" In that same flat tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some," Harry answered immediately. "They identified several
      possible locations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you check them out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, as best I could," Harry said. "Mostly in the Atlantic
      Ocean, near the equator. There were also a few theories that
      Atlantis was in the Mediterranean Sea, and one that postulated it
      had been connected to India by an isthmus until about 10,000 B.C. I
      discounted the Indian legend, since Atlantis had to be isolated for
      the genetic marker that the Source of Magic looks for to be solely
      on that population."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what did you find in those locations you searched?" Monroe
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Harry admitted, reluctantly. "But not finding it so
      far doesn't mean it doesn't exist!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you suppose this 'Source of Magic' would be?" Monroe
      asked. "Like a Philosopher's Stone, but emitting magic rather than
      just transmuting base metal to gold, or turning water into Elixer
      Vitae?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something like that," Harry agreed. "Or maybe it was found
      rather than designed, left on Atlantis by an even earlier
      civilization."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That invites an infinite regression," Monroe objected. "You
      might as well say, 'God done it'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry responded with annoyance in his voice. "Whatever. But
      until we locate where Atlantis was, we won't be able to do any
      testing on it, to determine its origin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Monroe shook his head. "I don't think that's true. I think
      we should do some tests to see if we can <em class="calibre7">locate</em> this
      supposed Source of Magic, assuming it exists."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Author's Note: A big thanks to EY (Less Wrong) for
      including a link to this fanfic at his site for Methods of
      Rationality, HPMOR dot NET. The chapters for that story have
      resumed once again and are very interesting to read!</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
