<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 12: Busted!, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: Busted!</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Updated 5/4/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You're going to tell me exactly what's going on with you
      and Mr. Monroe.</em><em class="calibre7">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled despite the expression on Hermione's face. "Hello,
      love. Fancy meeting you here…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione moved stiffly into the room, then pointed a finger
      commandingly at the door, which hurriedly slammed shut and engaged
      the bolt. "Don't give me that 'love' stuff, Harry. What's
      <em class="calibre7">wrong</em> with you? Are you <em class="calibre7">trying</em> to make things
      more difficult for me at the Ministry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's going on?" Harry asked, a look of wide-eyed innocence on
      his face. On the opposite side of the room, Monroe glanced around
      uncomfortably, afraid that <em class="calibre7">whatever</em> had happened, he was
      going to be dragged into it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know bloody well what's going on," Hermione said, in a calm
      but angry tone. "You've got Malfoy up in arms at you again, and I
      suspect he'll be here any moment to try and pick up Mr. Monroe as
      some kind of retaliation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What for <em class="calibre7">now</em>?" Monroe blurted, unable to hold
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked at him. "There are apparently allegations that
      you may have some connection to the Dark Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "Hell, I accused him of that a few days ago at
      the Weasleys' shop! Malfoy's just using that as an excuse to harass
      Monroe!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned momentarily at that. Had Malfoy somehow found
      out about that conversation? It didn't seem likely — the Weasleys
      warded their premises and homes more tightly than even Mary's Room
      was protected. Maybe he'd gotten a tip. She suddenly shrugged,
      remembering not to let Harry distract her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't matter," Hermione waved a hand dismissively. "He's
      got the legal right to follow up any leads he has dealing with Dark
      agents, including dead ones like Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does he have the right to put Trace spells on wizards before
      such information comes to light?" Monroe asked. Both Hermione and
      Harry looked at him sharply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does that mean?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We think Malfoy put a trace spell on Monroe when he was being
      held at the Ministry earlier," Harry said shortly, not happy that
      Monroe had mentioned that in front of Hermione, who would likely
      press the issue with Malfoy if he showed up at Mary's Place. And
      thinking of that…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We probably need to leave here anyway," Harry said. "They have
      to prepare this room for the next customer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No they don't," Hermione said. "I spoke to the owner when I
      first got here. I told her you were expecting me but that I'd been
      held up at work." Hermione crossed her arms over her chest. "She
      seemed to think you were expecting Draco Malfoy," she said, giving
      Harry a suspicious look. "I wonder why she would think that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I told her that," Harry replied at once. "Malfoy
      doesn't want anyone in Diagon Alley thinking he and I are in
      cahoots — telling Mary that I was meeting Malfoy here make him look
      bad in front of all his 'fans' here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Hermione agreed. "And it also pissed him off, obviously,
      and he's decided to take it out on Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wouldn't even know Harry said that unless he had a trace
      spell on me," Monroe spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked thoughtful for a moment. "What did he tell you
      before he sent you up to my office?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He said you'd granted me citizenship status retroactive to my
      entry in England five years ago, and that I was free to leave,"
      Monroe answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a gleeful look on his face. "If he'd had any evidence
      that you were working for Voldemort," he said, grinning, "he'd have
      invoked it then!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment there was a pounding on the door. "Ministry
      Aurors!" a voice outside shouted; it sounded like Vincent Crabbe.
      "Open up or we'll break the door down!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right on time," Harry smirked. He slid the bolt aside and
      opened the door. Outside were Crabbe, Goyle and behind them, Malfoy
      himself. "Why Draco," Harry said, feigning surprise. "What are you
      doing <em class="calibre7">here</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As if you didn't know," Draco growled. He fluttered his hands
      at Crabbe and Goyle, waving them out of his way, then walked into
      the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What d'you want us to do, Boss —" Crabbe asked, but the door
      slammed shut on them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come here to warn your husband he might be implicated in a Dark
      conspiracy?" Draco spoke first to the Minister.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be ridiculous, Draco," Hermione replied, sounding
      offended. "I came here to find out what's provoked this latest
      round of feuding between the two of you, and what Mr. Monroe's got
      to do with it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I already told you what we suspect," Draco answered smoothly.
      "That Mr. Monroe has some connection to the Dark Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were various reactions in the room to this statement.
      Monroe shook his head in disgust; Harry merely smiled thinly to
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Hermione, however, who responded first. "Yes, and you
      refused to divulge your sources or any other information about that
      suspicion, citing an 'ongoing investigation' into the matter. May I
      presume that you have learned nothing more concrete since earlier
      this afternoon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's still ongoing," Draco agreed. In point of fact, they had
      no such information on Monroe; it had been a ploy to get Monroe
      back into the Ministry after he and Harry had found a way to
      circumvent the Trace that Malfoy had put on Monroe while he was in
      their custody earlier today, so that he could overhear any
      conversations Monroe had with anyone. It was why he'd brought
      Crabbe and Goyle along — to take Monroe into custody so he could
      use Veritaserum on him and find out what he and Harry had discussed
      that Draco had been unable to understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Hermione being here was just icing on the cake; if Monroe
      and Potter had been plotting anything the least bit underhanded,
      her presence here would make it seem like she was in on it as well,
      weakening her position in the eyes of the Wizengamot. Only the
      Chief Warlock would still be staunchly on her side, as he had
      always been, but even his support couldn't override Lord Malfoy's
      influence in the Most Ancient Hall of the wizards' court.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why didn't you hold him when he was at the Ministry earlier
      today?" Hermione asked sharply. "You told me afterward we released
      Monroe that some new information about Voldemort —" Draco frowned
      at her use of The Name "— had come to light. You said you wanted
      the chance to ask Monroe some questions — why didn't you tell me
      that while he was there, instead of waiting until after he'd been
      let go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The information only came to light shortly after we released
      Monroe," Draco answered, his tone as smooth as it had been
      before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did it come to you?" Hermione persisted. "From one of your
      Aurors? Was it anonymous?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco saw the trap she was setting — if he said one of his
      Aurors had brought it to him she would demand he be questioned
      under Veritaserum, and there was no time for him to prepare someone
      for that. He couldn't say it was Crabbe or Goyle — as his "personal
      assistants" as well as Aurors anything they said would be suspect.
      "It was anonymous," he said immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you are in the process of verifying that information?"
      Hermione asked, arching an eyebrow at him. Harry's smile got a
      fraction broader — he'd already figured out where she was going
      with these questions. She'd used the technique on him often enough.
      Fortunately, he'd always been prepared for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Draco nodded, making his reply sound like that
      should have been obvious. But there was a cold shiver running down
      his spine — he <em class="calibre7">knew</em> what she'd say next —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you don't yet have sufficient cause to bring him in for
      questioning," Hermione pointed out, exactly as he'd expected.
      Behind the veneer of his confident expression, Draco grimaced,
      silently damning the woman for these completely ludicrous reforms
      to their law enforcement system.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't want to give him the opportunity to escape," Draco
      replied, the only thing he could reasonably say at this point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister raised her hands, gesturing at the room they were
      in. "It doesn't look like he was running, Draco, if he's been
      having lunch here with Harry, as you told me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I wonder how he knew that?" Monroe put in. "Since I entered
      this restaurant invisibly and Harry never mentioned he was having
      lunch with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Shit</em>, Draco thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded knowingly. "Yes, I've been meaning to get to
      that. Draco, how <em class="calibre7">did</em> you know to tell me that Harry was
      having lunch with Mr. Monroe, earlier today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was only one answer Draco could give. "I watched Monroe as
      he left through the visitor's entrance. He was speaking to someone
      though no one else was around. I suspected it was Harry since
      Monroe called his name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You weren't in the booth with him when Monroe left, were you?"
      Hermione asked. "Even if you were Disillusioned, I don't think Mr.
      Monroe would have failed to notice someone in there with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was no one in the booth with me," Monroe answered before
      Draco could say anything. "I checked around inside it while it was
      taking me up to the street — in case someone <em class="calibre7">was</em> in there
      with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco hadn't wanted to admit this, but — "There's a camera
      installed in the booth," he said. "I had them mounted in the Atrium
      and other key locations in the Ministry, including the visitor's
      booth, when I became Head Auror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how is it <em class="calibre7">I</em> am not aware of that?" Hermione asked,
      archly. "I should have had to approve the cost of installing those
      cameras."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I used my own gold," Draco said. "It was considered a personal
      expenditure — completely legal at the time." In fact, Draco had
      known that Hermione was working to change the policy on making
      personal modifications to one's office or business area — she
      wanted <em class="calibre7">all</em> modifications to go through the Ministry for
      approval, not just governmental upgrades, which were few and far
      between. Draco had the miniature magical cameras installed just
      before the policy changes went into effect. They had been his
      private eyes into the goings-on at the Ministry. He just wished
      he'd spent the extra gold and gotten the cameras with audio
      capability as well!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You must've purchased those from the Weasleys," Harry said,
      enjoying himself very much. "Were they the kind with audio
      capability, or the cheaper models?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy glared at Harry, then said reluctantly, "Non-audio."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how could you have heard Monroe call Harry's name?"
      Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never said I <em class="calibre7">heard</em> him," Draco pointed out. "I saw
      his mouth move. I have a recording of him leaving the booth." Draco
      did not bother to point out that he'd only watched the video after
      the fact, that he had heard Monroe say Harry's name by other means,
      means he had no desire to divulge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And when did I say Harry and I were going to Mary's Place?"
      Monroe asked, accusingly. "The Minister said a minute ago that you
      told her that's where Harry and I were."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a lucky guess on my part," Draco said. "It's the most
      secure place in Diagon Alley if you want to discuss something
      without being overheard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But not the most secure place in London, as you know," Harry
      put in. "That would be my offices and private residence at the TBC
      Building. <em class="calibre7">That's</em> where you should have expected me to go,
      if I didn't really want you to overhear anything between me and
      Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a good point," Hermione said, turning to Draco. "So how
      did you know Harry and Monroe were here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because he —" Monroe began, but both Hermione and Harry put up
      their hands, stopping him from speaking further.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Draco?" Hermione prompted, when Malfoy didn't reply. "Do
      I have to have Crabbe and Goyle put under Veritaserum before you'll
      admit you put a trace program on Mr. Monroe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inwardly, Draco was furious, but mostly with himself — he'd
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> to mention to Granger that her husband was meeting
      with Monroe, he couldn't resist rubbing that in her face; that, and
      the bit about Monroe's supposed connection with the Dark Lord, a
      connection he had not a shred of evidence to support. "I thought it
      would be a good contingency plan," he finally said. "In case Monroe
      tried to leave town."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would I do <em class="calibre7">that</em>?" Monroe asked, in a tone of
      incredulity. "I've just been pardoned for being in Britain
      illegally, even though I had no idea I was until a few days
      ago!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll overlook what you've done, Draco," Hermione told him. "If
      you remove the trace immediately and promise you won't use it again
      without executive approval."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if I refuse?" Draco asked, stiffly, wondering to himself if
      his father could swing the votes in the Wizengamot to have him
      exonerated — and if his father would even try. Lucius Malfoy did
      not value failure these days, not even a relatively minor failure
      by his only son and heir to his title.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I will bring up the matter to the Chief Warlock," Hermione
      said, in an icy tone. He may move to have House Malfoy shunned by
      the other Ancient Houses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy stared at her in disbelief. "You would not dare!" he
      said, though his voice could barely manage more than a whisper, so
      shocked was he by this move on her part. "House Malfoy is one of
      the most Ancient and Noble Houses in Wizarding Britain!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All the more important that you should comport yourself as Head
      Auror with more regard for the law," Hermione replied, her tone
      still icy. "If the Wizengamot should learn that you have such a
      spell in your possession, they may begin to wonder whether it could
      ever be used on <em class="calibre7">them</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one spoke for what seemed like a long time. Finally, Draco
      reached inside his robe and drew out his wand. "Does everyone here
      agree that no mention will be made of the trace spell to anyone
      outside this room?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry and Hermione both said, then looked at Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe sighed. "Yes," he said as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Draco nodded and pointed his wand at Monroe, making
      a complex series of wand motions as he muttered the cancellation
      spell under his breath. "I presume you trust that I've removed it,"
      he said as his wand disappeared back into his robe. "Given that
      there is no known detection spell that can find it, anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm working on it," Harry said, cheerfully, earning a sharp
      look from both Draco and Hermione, for different reasons. He
      stepped over to the door. "And now, Draco, have a pleasant day," he
      said, opening it and gesturing for Malfoy to leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without a word Draco turned and walked out through the door.
      "What now, Boss?" they heard Crabbe ask as Harry began to shut the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut it," Draco replied, his voice a low snarl. "Let's get back
      —" then the door closed and any voices from the outside were cut
      off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's that," Harry said, looking back at Hermione and
      Monroe. "I guess we can be going as well —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on, buster," Hermione stopped him. "You're not getting off
      that easy this time. You're going to tell me exactly what's going
      on with you and Mr. Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy strode from Mary's Place and toward the exit of
      Diagon Alley in a black rage, though his outward expression
      remained impassive. He had dearly wanted to escort someone back to
      the Ministry to show the merchants and customers here that he was
      working for their benefit, taking care of their needs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, it was only him and two Aurors who made their way back
      to the Leaky Cauldron, empty-handed and barely having avoided
      public disgrace. But no one here could know that, of course, so
      Draco nodded, with a thin but cordial smile, to the shopkeepers and
      vendors who hailed or waved at him, even as his two bodyguards
      waved away anyone who moved to greet him. Crabbe and Goyle were a
      step behind him, maintaining silence as he'd ordered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Leaky Cauldron went dead silent as they entered from the
      courtyard, and Draco felt the pressure of many eyes upon him as he
      passed through the inn without a word. Even before they reached the
      front door, the whispers began. At the door Draco stopped, looking
      back at them; the whispers immediately stopped. He turned and
      opened the door then strode out into the street.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once outside on Charing Cross Road, he and his men vanished,
      reappearing perhaps a quarter-mile distant at his private entrance
      to the Ministry, a fish and chip shop, long abandoned. Draco had
      arranged this entrance when he had become Head Auror; only he,
      Crabbe and Goyle were aware of its existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door was locked and bolted, but at the touch of his hand the
      bolt slid aside and the door swung open for him. They passed
      inside, through the long-unused shop and into a narrow hallway
      leading to two doors, one marked BLOKES and the other BINTS. Draco
      had seen restrooms signed like this in some Muggle restaurant years
      ago and thought they were funny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe and Goyle followed Draco through the BLOKES door, which
      led into a lavatory with three stalls in it. Each stall had a
      handle and a coin box which read, Please Deposit One Pound. Draco
      stepped in front of the first stall, Crabbe the next one, and Goyle
      the last. In unison they took out their wands and tapped the coin
      box in front of them, each of which made a <em class="calibre7">clack</em> as the
      doors swung inward. Inside each stall was a capped flange and no
      toilet. Ignoring this, Draco stepped toward the tile wall, passing
      through it just as one did through the barrier between Kings Cross
      Station and Platform 9¾.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other side of the wall was a comfortable room, brightly
      lighted by a glowing ceiling and furnished with a leather recliner,
      a table with a tea set and several boxes of Earl Grey tea, and
      across the room, a stone fireplace with a finely carved mahogany
      mantle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was tempted to send Crabbe and Goyle on ahead, and spend a
      while in this room, his "quiet room," brooding, but he could do
      that just as well in his office. He took a pinch of Floo powder
      from a bowl on the mantle, tossed it into the hearth, which burst
      into green flames, then said, "Ministry of Magic!" and stepped into
      the flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few moments later he stepped out of a fireplace in the Atrium,
      turned, and strode toward the golden elevators; Crabbe and Goyle
      appeared behind him, from the flames and were hard on his heels.
      The lift stopped at level two and the three men got off, walking
      down the short hallway to where the main offices of the Auror
      Department were located. Draco walked to his office, Crabbe and
      Goyle still at his heels; they probably expected to follow him into
      his office where he would reprimand them for letting the
      Potter/Monroe situation get out of control.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, Draco merely said, "Go write your reports for today.
      I'll see you tomorrow morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two men looked at one another, hiding their expressions of
      relief, then turned and left. Draco entered his office, tapped the
      doorknob with his wand to lock it, and sat down at his desk to
      brood over the day's events and begin plotting for tomorrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reaming out Crabbe and Goyle might have made him feel better
      momentarily, but if there was anyone to blame for this debacle it
      was him, not them. He was being too reactive, not thinking far
      enough ahead in this private little war with Harry Potter. In
      truth, it was more than a game than a real war; somehow a war with
      Harry had never seemed like a good idea to Draco. However his
      father, Lord Malfoy, took the conflict with Harry seriously, and
      had done so ever since he'd learned that Harry had been trying to
      bring Draco over to the Light side. But Draco had been playing that
      game with Harry, not his father — he'd wanted the chance to win it
      himself, and get Harry to embrace his Darkness! But Father had
      explained again about Dumbledore's ways, and what he'd done to his
      mother and Father's wife, and Draco had tearfully agreed, all those
      years ago, not to engage Harry in future plots or manipulations
      without apprising him of his plans. Draco would not have been
      allowed to return to Hogwarts otherwise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that was many years ago, when he was a child and didn't know
      any better. Today his father let him fight his own battles; in
      fact, he insisted on it, for how else would Draco earn the title he
      would inherit one day: Draco, Lord Malfoy of the Most Ancient and
      Noble House.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment Draco's eye fell on a parchment envelope that was
      lying out of place on his desk. He had been so distracted when he
      sat down that he hadn't noticed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco picked up the envelope. It was addressed to "Head Auror
      Malfoy" in a vaguely familiar handwriting, something Draco felt
      like he'd seen before. There was no wax seal on the back, but the
      flap refused to budge when he tried to open it — there must be a
      Sticking Charm on it. He pointed his wand at it and muttered,
      "<em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem</em>," but even that didn't break the charm.
      After a couple more tries Draco gave up and used a Severing Charm
      on the side of the envelope. The letter inside was written in the
      same familiar script, in very straight, ordered lines on the
      parchment. Draco read,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Head Auror Malfoy,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I and other like-minded folks in Wizarding Britain applaud your
      efforts to keep Diagon Alley a place where witches and wizards are
      free to shop and to ply their trades without unnecessary taxation
      and manipulation by greedy Muggle-loving capitalists like Harry
      Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We have come too far in the Wizarding World to allow anyone to
      exert their monetary influence over us, and at the same time put us
      at such risk with the possibility of the return of
      You-Know-Who.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There have been rumors circulating throughout Diagon Alley and
      other places where wizards gather that Harry Potter has been
      talking to a wizard who was posing as a Muggle for several years
      before making his true presence known in our community. It is also
      believed that this wizard may be controlled somehow by the Dark
      Lord, even though he is supposed to be long-dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We urge you to take these rumors seriously – no one wants a
      return to the conflicts and terror of the 1970's,when You-Know-Who
      ravened about the Wizarding World, terrorizing and murdering any
      who stood against him. Even if You-Know-Who is truly dead, it would
      not stop an enterprising wizard from creating circumstances that
      would make it seem like he was alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sincerely yours,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A concerned citizen</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stared at this letter for several minutes, both at the
      content and the writing itself. Who would write him such a letter?
      The writing was too regular to be normal handwriting; thus, it was
      probably done with a Quotes Quill. The comments about Diagon Alley
      led him to believe it was someone there who knew of his efforts to
      neutralize Harry Potter's influence there, and seemed to approve of
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other aspect of the letter — the references to the Dark Lord
      — were more interesting. The prospect of the Dark Lord returning
      now was unsettling, but so was the idea that Potter might fake his
      return in order to regain the power he once held over the Wizarding
      World. Assuming that the Dark Lord <em class="calibre7">was</em> dead for once and
      all, it would be a brilliant stroke to fake his return!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Taking out his wand, Draco tapped a box sitting on the corner of
      his desk. "Where did this letter on my desk come from?" he asked
      without preamble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a standard owl-post delivery, sir," his executive
      assistant responded a moment later. "I logged it in at…10:32 this
      morning. The owl was from the Diagon Alley Owl Office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Draco said, and tapped the box again, severing the
      connection. It was a handy little device, that box, something his
      assistant had presented him with shortly after she'd gone to work
      for him. She had pointed out that it would save time with her not
      having to constantly come in his office when he called for her. The
      news had spread and soon all the department heads and
      undersecretaries had them on their desks as well, replacing most of
      the parchment airplanes that had been in use for many years before.
      Draco had to admit they were handy little devices, especially since
      you could also connect them to any other box, not just the boxes
      they were keyed to by default.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had galled him, though, that all of these boxes had come from
      Weasleys' Wireless Wonderland, spinning money for those, those —
      <em class="calibre7">people</em>, Draco thought savagely. He stared at the box
      broodingly, contemplating whether he'd feel better if he blasted it
      with his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, no — he'd just have to buy another one, filling the Weasley
      coffers even more, which was not a part of his plans for today. He
      picked up the letter again, contemplating how he might figure out
      who —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco stopped, staring at the writing on the letter. That
      writing <em class="calibre7">was</em> familiar to him! He spun around, reaching
      toward a book on the bookshelves behind his desk. The book was thin
      but well-bound, with the words Quotes Quills Samples along the
      side. Opening it toward the end of the book, Draco began comparing
      the writing samples in the book to the writing on the letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's see," Draco muttered as he scanned the writings in the
      book. "Quote Quill, Fred Weasley, purchased 10 April 2012…no. Fred
      Weasley, purchased 27 August 2014, no. George Weasley, purchased 30
      September 2009, hmm, no. Ron Weasley, purchased 15 April 2013 —
      aha! Got you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was not an exact match, but it was very close, Draco decided.
      The Ministry kept track of Quote Quills, which were routinely used
      to write otherwise anonymous letters. Of course, this did not mean
      that Ron Weasley <em class="calibre7">himself</em> used the Quote Quill that wrote
      this letter, but it seemed fairly certain that he had enchanted the
      quill that did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But added with the other clues in the letter, Draco suspected
      the youngest Weasley son <em class="calibre7">had</em> written the letter and sent
      it off to the Ministry using the Diagon Alley post office. Why he
      might have done so, and the reasons he might have to implicate
      Harry Potter in a plot to have You-Know-Who return, whether the
      Dark Lord was truly resurrected or resurrected in name only, was
      something Draco intended to find out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Malfoy left the room with his goon squad, Hermione
      produced her wand, waved the bolt shut, then spoke an even dozen
      wards — several of her own creation and more than enough to ensure
      that no one outside the room would be privy to anything that went
      on in the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There," she said with grim satisfaction. "<em class="calibre7">Now</em>, Harry —
      you've been acting quite strangely since your birthday this Monday
      past — that is, more strangely than usual," she added, as Harry
      gave her a wry grin. "And I want to know why. Now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't you hungry?" Harry remarked casually, sitting down at
      the table. "I thought you might at least want to order something
      before you locked us away in here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The server will take our orders at six p.m., which is in —"
      Hermione glanced at her watch "— forty-eight minutes. That should
      be enough time for you to explain what you and Mr. Monroe have been
      up to this week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing much, really," Harry said, though he did not — quite —
      meet her eyes as he said it. "We've just been kicking around a few
      ideas over the past day or two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before Draco showed up you said you'd accused Mr. Monroe of
      being Voldemort," Hermione reminded him, sounding severe. "Is that
      one of the ideas you've been 'kicking around'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved a hand airily. "That was just a momentary glitch,
      before I realized that James knows quite a bit about magic — and
      well, he'd beat me at a duel…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He <em class="calibre7">did</em>?" Hermione's eyes widened in surprise; she
      looked at Monroe in wonderment. "That must've been something to
      see! The great Harry Potter-Evans-Verres-Granger defeated in a
      duel!" She smiled wickedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I got in a lucky shot," Monroe offered. "It was not that big a
      deal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what <em class="calibre7">I</em> thought," Harry muttered
      plaintively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's expression had become stern again. "But that doesn't
      tell me what you're doing <em class="calibre7">now</em>," she reminded him. "Here
      you are, locked away in one of the most magically secure places in
      Britain, with the Head Auror breathing down your necks — you can
      see where I might think you're doing more here than discussing the
      latest issue of <em class="calibre7">Duellists Quarterly</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Harry murmured, "fair enough. If you must know, love,
      Monroe and I have been talking about…the Singularity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Hermione rolled her eyes expressively. "<em class="calibre7">That</em>."
      She put her hand over her face, shaking her head in exasperation.
      "Harry, you and I covered this in detail a long time ago. Such a
      thing is never going to happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually," Monroe interrupted. "It's nearly inevitable, with
      progress occurring at an exponential rate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry tried to tell me that, too," Hermione replied, folding
      her arms. "But then we researched how often new spells were being
      created over the past few centuries, and the progression is linear
      — in fact, it almost looked logarithmic, like it was slowly
      leveling off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe frowned at them. "But <em class="calibre7">Muggle</em> progress is
      occurring exponentially! Magic should show the same trend, even if
      it's slower."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Interdict of Merlin," Harry muttered. "That's what's
      causing the rate of progress to slow down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But wizards <em class="calibre7">are</em> creating new spells, Harry!" Hermione
      objected. "The Interdict only keeps spells above a certain level of
      power from being understood by anyone other than the inventor of a
      new spell — it doesn't limit the creation of powerful spells!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry agreed, reluctantly. "But once a spell is lost to
      the Interdict, it can't be reinvented by anyone — that is what's
      causing the amount of magical knowledge gained in the world per
      unit of time to slowly move towards zero."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But not to actually reach zero," Hermione pointed out. "That's
      what you're trying to imply."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm <em class="calibre7">not</em>!" Harry insisted. "What I'm trying to make
      you understand is that unless we do something about the Interdict,
      that eventually Muggle technology, progressing exponentially, will
      outstrip magic and that if a Singularity occurs, it will be
      technological rather than magical!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that assumes that Muggle technology <em class="calibre7">is</em> progressing
      exponentially now," Hermione argued, glancing at Monroe. "Has
      anyone <em class="calibre7">proved</em> that's really the case?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Monroe nodded. "Ray Kurzweil proved it over a decade ago
      in a book he wrote called <em class="calibre7">The Singularity is Near</em>. His
      theory on the idea, called the 'Law of Accelerating Returns,' was
      built on the works of earlier scientists who perceived that
      progress would eventually lead mankind to become post-industrial,
      post-scarcity, and deathless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Deathless?" Hermione looked faintly worried at that. "Isn't
      that what Voldemort wanted primarily for himself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is," Harry admitted. "But the difference is that the
      Singularity — whether we're talking technological or magical — is
      to free people from the limitations of aging, illness, and death.
      Nobody really wants to die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was shaking her head. "I've known people who've wanted
      to die, Harry — not because they were sick of living, but because
      they wanted to experience what happens beyond the physical
      world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing happens beyond the physical world," Harry said,
      deliberately lowering his voice to avoid sounding angry at his
      wife. "Dumbledore believed there was an afterlife, and thought that
      anyone who didn't want to experience it was a borderline Dark
      personality, but I think he was just rationalizing what happened to
      his family back when he was in school. There is no evidence that a
      soul exists."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None that you accept, anyway," Hermione said, archly. "That
      doesn't make you <em class="calibre7">right</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't make me <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>, either," Harry argued. "But
      any way you look at it, reasonable evidence suggests that souls do
      not exist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what about —" Hermione cut herself off suddenly, glancing
      toward Monroe. "Well, about you-know-what."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Monroe knows about Horcruxes," Harry told her. "And I haven't
      studied them enough to determine whether they hold a fragment of
      your soul or what. What I think is, they hold a copy of your brain
      patterns, a copy that can still think and somehow act on the
      external world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds like you don't have any real evidence to back that up,"
      Hermione said, sounding smug. "Or would you like to present some
      now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry said nothing, and merely shook his head. "Didn't think
      so," Hermione sniffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What Hermione didn't know, and what Harry would never tell her,
      was the information he <em class="calibre7">did</em> have on Horcruxes, information
      he'd taken from Quirrell-Voldemort's mind before he died.
      Voldemort's return in his own physical body had been precluded by
      the actions of men like Severus Snape and Alastor Moody, who had
      made sure that none of his remains could be used to perform the
      ritual that would have restored him to full vigor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But no such precautions had been made for <em class="calibre7">Quirrell's</em>
      body — when he was destroyed the first time it was discovered that
      his parent's graves were no longer in the cemetery where they'd
      been interred, and the substantial efforts undertaken by Order of
      the Phoenix members to find them had availed for naught. It had
      taken six long years for "Quirrellmort" to return from death, just
      as Harry and Dumbledore had found and destroyed the last of the
      Horcruxes he'd created.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Dumbledore had died fighting the resurrected Quirrell,
      hoping to weaken him enough for Harry to defeat him, and after the
      Headmaster had fallen Harry had indeed taken up the battle,
      fighting Quirrell for most of a day before the former Defense
      professor fell to the Elder Wand, the wand that Harry had won from
      Dumbledore without knowing its true nature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But no one other than Harry, Dumbledore, and the man who had
      become the Chief Warlock after the Headmaster's death knew the
      truth about Quirrell. And no one ever could; at least not until
      Harry could find a way to break the Interdict's stranglehold on
      progress in Magical Britain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then maybe," Harry said, quietly, "we should find out, once and
      for all, whether souls exist or not."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
