<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 13: Do Souls Exist?, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Do Souls Exist?</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Updated 5/19/2012<br class="calibre4"/>
      Last Updated 1/25/2013</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Hermione shook her head disbelievingly. "You can't
      prove something like that true!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Now it was Harry's turn to fold his arms skeptically.
      "Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because —" his wife paused to consider how she should approach
      the claim. "Because it's — well, it's…metaphysical. There is no way
      to measure or quantify a soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Dark wizards supposedly trap a portion of their soul inside
      an object, creating a Horcrux," Harry replied. "How do they know if
      they've succeeded?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because the Horcrux becomes nearly indestructible," Hermione
      answered. "The only way to destroy one is with basilisk venom or
      Fiendfyre."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is also a rumor that steeping a Horcrux in the blood of a
      unicorn will destroy it," Monroe added. "But no one has ever tried
      to prove that — wizards are normally afraid that killing a unicorn
      will bring a curse down upon them for the rest of their life, which
      won't be long because they've slain something so pure and
      good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't prove there's a bit of soul in there," Harry
      pointed out. "Only that the ritual that creates it makes it very
      hard to break the spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In any event," Hermione turned back to Harry, "you don't have
      access to a Horcrux, or any real information about them — the books
      that contained the ritual for creating one were stolen or removed
      from Hogwarts long ago, and the only person we know who knew it —
      Voldemort — is dead. Unless you can think up a way to measure a
      soul somehow you're at a dead end before you even start!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It <em class="calibre7">is</em> a problem," Monroe agreed. "But I'm with Harry
      on this — I don't believe souls exist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gave him an even look. "I never said I <em class="calibre7">did</em>.
      But I don't know how to go about either proving <em class="calibre7">or</em>
      disproving their existence, Mr. Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had leaned forward, resting his elbows on the table with
      his head leaning against his hands. "Substrate independence," he
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione looked confused. But the other wizard in the
      room was nodding at Harry's words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I think I see where you're going," Monroe said. "Like a
      ghost being an accidental impression of the mind of a wizard, left
      behind after his or her death. Like the Portrait Ritual, which
      infuses the painting of a person with some of his or her memories
      and intelligence. Like the Sorting Hat being able to talk directly
      into your brain while you're wearing it, and being able to talk
      aloud even when nobody's wearing it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's not the same thing!" Hermione objected. "We don't
      know how the Sorting Hat was created, but there are many spells and
      rituals that instill a semblance of intelligence in otherwise
      inanimate objects. And we know that wizards who have an unhealthy
      fear of death sometimes remain behind as ghosts when they die,
      especially if their death was abrupt or unnatural. But a ghost
      isn't a person's <em class="calibre7">soul</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know?" Harry asked, tonelessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because —" Hermione hesitated. "Because… it's not…fully
      self-aware. A person's soul would have <em class="calibre7">all</em> of their
      memories and personality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore once told me that ghosts are not supposed to be
      here," Harry remembered. "They are supposed to move on, he said. He
      also made reference to the Veil in the Department of Mysteries and
      to the long-lost Resurrection Stone, one of the three Deathly
      Hallows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore evidently believed in souls," Monroe said. "But I
      remember reading up on ghosts, and the literature is quick to point
      out that only wizards can become ghosts, not Muggles. That seems to
      leave a hole in his soul theory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Hermione agreed. "I've read that, too. But that only
      means that Muggles don't release a burst of magic when they die,
      and so cannot create a ghostly afterimage of themselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Harry remarked, leaning back in his chair and
      rubbing his stomach. "I'm starting to get hungry again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione looked sharply at her husband. "Don't try to
      distract us from the conversation, Harry! I thought you
      <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> to talk about this!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do," Harry nodded. "But some Diracawl would be nice while we
      talked." He glanced at his watch. "It's just a few minutes before
      six."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you want to <em class="calibre7">wait</em> until after we get something to
      eat before we continue this conversation?" Hermione shot a look of
      incredulity toward Monroe, who didn't react, then turned back to
      Harry. "Fine, then let's just sit here saying nothing until
      then!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine with me," Harry nodded. "I need to think a bit
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny took her drink, thanked the bargirl, and walked outside to
      one of the few tables the small café had along its storefront. She
      was still nursing the anger that had built up inside her from the
      argument she'd had with Dean earlier that day, and being outside
      might help it dissipate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was unlikely anyone would recognize her here, even in Diagon
      Alley and despite her tell-tale red hair, almost a dead giveaway
      for a Weasley in this wizarding community. The bargirl had been
      pleasant but didn't seem to recognize her as she was pouring her
      glass of Ogden's Old Firewhiskey. This café, known only as Darla's,
      was on a cul-de-sac well off of Diagon Alley proper, and was the
      last shop in the row; passers-by were few and far between. That was
      well, because Ginny needed to think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She and Dean were arguing more and more lately. Her mother had
      suggested that was normal for young couples, that she and Dad had
      argued a lot when they were younger, before he'd learned his place
      in their household, Mum had added with a chuckle. Fred and George
      had shrugged it off, airily as usual, and their wives had told her
      separately that they tried to understand their husbands and the
      pressure they were under to do well, to be successful in Diagon
      Alley as their older brothers were in their jobs, Bill Weasley
      running Ollivanders, the premier wand shop in Diagon Alley and
      Charlie at the Ministry of Magic, Head of the Department of
      International Magical Cooperation. And Percy… Ginny drained her
      glass of firewhiskey then watched as it slowly refilled. She'd
      ordered three shots, so the glass would refill once more after
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Hermione, Ginny had to admit, seemed like a perfect
      couple, even accounting for some of the things she'd witnessed over
      the years. Harry was not a typical wizarding husband; he did not
      expect his wife to be at his beck and call, like many wizards did,
      even in this day and age. He had never disapproved of Hermione
      working outside the home. Indeed, he seemed to support Hermione in
      whatever she did! Ginny wondered how much Hermione appreciated that
      fact. Not very much, she suspected, not as much as Ginny would.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi, sis, what are you doing here?" Ginny looked up, surprised
      to see her brother Ron standing beside her. Normally she was more
      aware of her surroundings than this! "I didn't think you even knew
      this place existed," Ron said, sitting down at her table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't until fifteen minutes ago," Ginny said, not sure
      whether she was happy to see Ron or not. Of all her brothers, he
      was the most understanding of her and her situation with Dean. They
      had talked about her marriage many times and Ron had always given
      her good advice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron's one blind spot in their relationship, however, was his
      abiding dislike for Harry Potter. They had first met, Ron told her,
      on Platform 9¾ on their first trip to Hogwarts, when Mum had helped
      Harry avoid some kind of argument with his parents by telling him
      how to get through the barrier to the Platform. He'd gone up to
      Harry on the other side and tried to make conversation with him,
      but Harry had been — well, very weird, according to Ron. He didn't
      even want to be called Harry Potter, Ron had said; he'd put on a
      winter scarf even though it was a perfectly pleasant day, and then
      didn't want anyone to know who he was! He insisted on being called
      names like Goop or something silly like that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he hadn't liked Quidditch, Ron had hastened to point out. A
      wizard that <em class="calibre7">didn't like Quidditch</em>! Unbelievable! He even
      talked about <em class="calibre7">changing the rules</em>! But even that hadn't been
      enough to deter Ron from trying to be his friend. He remembered,
      he'd reminded Ginny, just how much she'd talked about him when Mum
      had told them that Harry Potter would be just about Ron's age, born
      a few months after he was. Ron figured, he said, he would sit with
      Harry on the Hogwarts Express, get to know him, try to get him to
      Sort into Gryffindor, the best House at Hogwarts, and he though
      Harry would come round to Quidditch after he'd seen it played a few
      times during the first year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then Draco Malfoy showed up. <em class="calibre7">Everybody</em> knew who the
      Malfoys were — Lucius Malfoy, or <em class="calibre7">Lord</em> <em class="calibre7">Malfoy</em> as
      he preferred in meetings of the Wizengamot, was hell-bent on
      becoming the de facto ruler of Wizarding Britain now that
      You-Know-Who was gone. And Draco was certainly his father's son,
      Ron had said, darkly — he'd wasted no time in bringing up Percy's
      rat in front of Harry, and suggested Ron tell him the story. And
      almost surprisingly, Harry had agreed with Ron, and told Malfoy he
      didn't have to tell the story if he didn't want to, and asked
      Malfoy to drop it. And Ron had really thought, he'd said, that he
      might still be Harry's friend if only Malfoy would <em class="calibre7">go
      away</em>, and he suggested that Harry tell him to do just
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then Harry Potter had said that Malfoy was welcome to talk
      to him if he wanted to! And that had done it for Ron, he'd walked
      away and written off Harry Potter as some kind of suck-up and toady
      to powerful people like the Malfoys. Wrongly, as he later admitted,
      but Ron had never forgiven him for preferring Draco Malfoy over
      him. Among other things, Ron had muttered; Ginny knew exactly what
      he was talking about. Ron had nursed a crush on Hermione Granger
      for years, just as Ginny had nursed one on Harry, though neither of
      them would ever admit it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what're you doing here?" Ron asked, eyeing the glass of
      firewhiskey in her hand. "Shouldn't you be home making dinner for
      your husband?" Said with a small ironic twist to his mouth — Ron
      knew how she felt about the whole <em class="calibre7">witches should be loving and
      doting to their husbands</em> thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn't you be home making Luna's supper?" Ginny retorted,
      knocking back her second shot of firewhiskey. Luna was, of course,
      a perfectly loving and doting wife, but Ron at least had the good
      sense not to take her for granted. Ginny and Luna had been in the
      same year at Hogwarts, though Luna had been Ravenclaw and Ginny
      (naturally, like all the Weasleys) had been Gryffindor, but they'd
      become good friends. Ginny liked suggesting that Ron should do more
      for his wife than simply not take advantage of her the way Fred and
      George seemed to do with theirs, even though their wives were more
      vocal about being treated equally by their husbands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's her night to make dinner," Ron replied. That was a little
      joke between him and Ginny; Luna made dinner almost every night,
      but a couple of times a week Ron would "make dinner" by taking them
      out to eat. They both chuckled, then Ron put on a more serious
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was something I wanted to talk to you about," Ron said.
      "It's good I happened to run into you." He paused a moment, looking
      at her carefully. "It's about Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about Harry?" Ginny asked warily. Whenever Ron had
      something to say about Harry it usually wasn't' good; there was no
      reason to think today would be any different.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think that he's really trying to bring back You-Know-Who,"
      Ron said, rushing the words out in case they got caught in his
      throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny frowned. "Why would he do that?" she asked. "He nearly
      killed Harry the last time they fought!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because without You-Know-Who, Harry Potter isn't really all
      that much," Ron argued. "You were a grade behind him — you saw all
      the trouble he caused over the next six years at Hogwarts. He damn
      near <em class="calibre7">ruined</em> Quidditch during our second year with all
      those stupid rules he wanted to add, and our third year he got
      Professor Lupin sacked because he was a werewolf!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've always hated werewolves, Ron," Ginny pointed out
      quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Lupin was a great teacher!" Ron objected. "Look at where
      he's at now! Nobody would have thought —" He cut himself off
      abruptly. "Anyway," he went on more quietly. "I think something's
      got to be done about what Potter's trying to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what's that, do you think?" Ginny asked, her lips set in a
      thin line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Ministry's got to be notified," Ron said at once. "I know
      you don't like it," he added, seeing her expression. "I know you
      work for the guy and everything." It didn't need to be said what he
      meant by <em class="calibre7">everything</em>. "But we can't go through another
      wizarding war! A lot of people <em class="calibre7">died</em> in the last one!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy knows you don't like Harry," Ginny pointed out. "He's
      knows you're going to be biased."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So?" Ron shrugged. "Malfoy doesn't like him either, does he? I
      don't think he's going to care what <em class="calibre7">I</em> think so long as I
      bring him evidence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What kind of evidence do you have against Harry?" Ginny wanted
      to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For one thing, all those books Fred and George have been
      finding for him all these years," Ron answered. Collecting
      Interdicted spell books was mildly illegal; the Ministry didn't
      want any spell experiments involving Interdicted spells going on
      outside Department of Mysteries supervision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're going to turn in your own brothers to get at Harry?"
      Ginny demanded accusingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy doesn't have to know where the books came from," Ron
      declared. "Only that Harry has them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a good idea to cross wits with Malfoy, Ron," Ginny
      warned. "You're not playing at Battle Magic games in school
      anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know what I'm doing," Ron said, with a touch of petulance. "I
      was one of Hermione's Captains, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who got outsmarted by Neville Longbottom," Ginny reminded him.
      Ron grimaced. That had been his biggest sore spot during the entire
      first year of Battle Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He didn't fight fair," Ron complained, a sullen look on his
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither did Harry Potter, from what you've said," Ginny said.
      "And neither will Malfoy, if you try to use him against Harry.
      Malfoy is going to be suspicious of any Weasley that tries to give
      him information against Harry Potter — he's suspect it's a trick.
      And if things don't work out the way you expect them to, he's going
      to put the blame on you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy won't do anything to me," Ron scoffed. "He wants
      everyone in Diagon Alley to think he's everybody's protector,
      keeping them safe from evil Harry Potter and his lackeys, the
      Gringotts goblins — he's got most of the shopkeepers believing he's
      a slumlord planning to kick them out of their shops for the least
      excuse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you know better than that," Ginny said, scowling at her
      brother. "You don't have <em class="calibre7">any</em> evidence that Harry's trying
      to bring back the Dark Lord, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only what he told us a few days ago!" Ron snapped. "He
      practically admitted Quirrell may have had something to do with
      that Monroe showing up at Harry's building!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that was before we found out that Monroe was a wizard!"
      Ginny snapped right back. "<em class="calibre7">And</em> that he has memories of
      being at Hogwarts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But those could have been faked!" Ron objected. "Did Harry ever
      check for that possibility?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Ginny shook her head. "But even so, Ron, you
      can't go to Malfoy with flimsy evidence like that!" She stood
      suddenly. "Look, you're going to do what you want — I know better
      than to tell you not to, because you're as stubborn as Fred and
      George are when you think you're right. But just be careful what
      you say to Malfoy — he's probably more obsessed about Harry than
      even <em class="calibre7">you</em> are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron doubted that, but said nothing. Ginny wasn't going to
      believe anything he said about Harry until he got proof that Harry
      was plotting something involving Monroe, or maybe even
      <em class="calibre7">Quirrell</em> somehow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going home," Ginny announced. "You should do the same, Ron
      — your wife's waiting for you, I'm sure. I'll — talk to you later."
      They looked at each other a long moment, both wondering what the
      other would do now that they'd had this conversation, then Ginny
      spun on her heel and walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron watched her walk up the byway until she turned into the main
      street and out of sight. Their argument had only strengthened his
      resolved to expose Harry any way he could. He picked up her last
      drink and gulped it down, then set the empty glass back on the
      table and walked away as well, to go home and make his own plans
      for Harry Potter's downfall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The aroma of fried Diracawl wafted through Mary's Room, mixing
      with the smell of Roopo balls, which Harry had suggested to Monroe,
      and Hermione's Dirigible Plum salad. The server had arrived only a
      minute ago with a tray bearing all three meals, placing each plate
      silently and accurately before the person who had ordered it, then
      quickly bowed and departed, pulling the door closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned forward and inhaled slowly, savoring the smell of
      his fried Diracawl meat, mashed potatoes and gravy, and green
      beans. "Mmm, that smells good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe had already tasted a Roopo ball. "You were right," he
      nodded toward Harry. "These are delicious!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded back, his mouth now full of mashed potatoes and
      gravy. He took a sip of his drink, a mug of Merlin's Best Mead, and
      said, "It's been a while since I've had any, but I remember the
      first time I tried some, I was here with —" he cut himself off,
      then continued "— a friend, and he ordered them for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, who had said nothing since the server arrived to take
      their orders just at six, finally spoke. "Do you want to continue
      our conversation from earlier, or would you just prefer to
      eat?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whadeber ju libe," Harry replied, his mouth full, and Hermione
      gave him a severe look but took out her wand and re-cast the spells
      that would give them complete privacy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been thinking about this soul thing as well," she said,
      sliding her wand back into its protective pocket within her robe.
      "There really isn't a way you can definitively prove its
      non-existence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione did a double take. "What? Then why did you…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been thinking, too," Harry said, after swallowing a
      mouthful of potatoes and green beans. "It's hard to prove a
      negative, that something <em class="calibre7">doesn't</em> exist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it has been done," Monroe pointed out. "Luminiferous ether,
      for example."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And phlogiston, and geocentrism, and the classical elements,"
      Harry amplified. "Even though certain theories of magic still
      accept Air, Earth, Fire and Water as being the basis of all
      matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was upset with herself. How could she have
      <em class="calibre7">forgotten</em> about such things? She had read about them
      <em class="calibre7">years</em> before she ever came to Hogwarts! "Granted," she
      said, grudgingly accepting that she could be wrong. "But what kind
      of experiment can you perform that would affect the soul? The only
      thing we know that is supposed to be able to do that is the act of
      <em class="calibre7">murder</em>, and you can't go around murdering people in the
      name of science!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Harry agreed. "That would be a direct violation
      of my goals as a scientist and futurist." He leaned forward then,
      his plate of fried Diricawl forgotten. "But what constitutes a
      murder, exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Hermione looked shocked. "Killing someone
      without justification, obviously! Why would you even ask that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To point out the critical factor in murder," Monroe
      interjected. "A lack of justification."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't affirm or deny that comment, he only said, "When an
      Auror kills a Dark wizard, does he commit murder?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not!" Hermione replied immediately. "He is acting
      lawfully, under the auspices of the Ministry of Magic, which grants
      him immunity in such cases."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even when using the Killing Curse to kill said Dark wizard?"
      Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if said Auror attacks without warning, without giving the
      Dark wizard a chance to surrender?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…Yes," Hermione said, more slowly this time. "The Dark wizard
      has violated wizarding law and is no longer under its protection,
      so the Auror has discretion as to how he can bring the Dark wizard
      to justice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what if the Auror considers such a sneak attack to be
      murder, but does it anyway, for expediency's sake?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned again. "I don't know if I can speak to
      someone's personal morality in such a situation. The Auror is
      justified under the law — his personal morality in that case is
      something for him to decide."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if I killed someone in self-defense," Harry continued his
      questioning. "Would I be justified under wizarding law?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, if it could be shown that you <em class="calibre7">really were</em> acting
      in self-defense. Under Veritaserum, for example."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what if I were a perfect Occlumens?" Harry smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you would be asked to provide your memories of the
      incident for Pensieve viewing," Hermione answered, "and
      Ministry-certified Legilimenses would examine them for
      inconsistencies and report any to the Wizengamot at your
      trial."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With enough planning false memories could be fabricated and
      made available to the Legilimenses," Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is why we'd have several Legilimenses
      <em class="calibre7">independently</em> review the memories, none of whom would know
      who else is doing so," Hermione said, sounding tired of Harry's
      nitpicking. "The system isn't perfect, but we can make efforts to
      be as thorough as possible. Perhaps you'd care to explain what
      <em class="calibre7">your</em> point is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only that it's extremely difficult to quantify something like
      'justification'," Harry said. "What if I could create a Horcrux
      without actually killing someone, by making myself believe I had
      done so? Could I rip my 'soul' in half by sincerely believing I had
      done murder? What if I subsequently learn that my belief was the
      result of a False Memory Charm — would that render the Horcrux
      powerless to preserve my existence if my body were killed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At the Salem Institute," Monroe said, "the consensus is that
      the soul cannot be healed while a Horcrux exists — it must be
      destroyed and the wizard who created it must be genuinely,
      sincerely repentant of the murder committed before the soul can be
      made whole again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even so," he continued, "there was much debate among
      wizard-philosophers whether the fragment of the soul from the
      Horcrux could ever rejoin the soul it was torn from. Some
      wizard-theologians contended that the souls must meet in the
      afterlife in order to reconcile and become one again. Others
      thought that the wizard would exhibit symptoms of schizophrenia or
      multiple personalities until the healing process was
      concluded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how might we use a Horcrux to determine whether it traps a
      fragment of a soul, or whether some other mechanism is in play?"
      Harry asked. "Because Horcruxes obviously <em class="calibre7">work</em> — we know
      that Voldemort used one —" (<em class="calibre7">at least</em> one, Harry did not
      say in front of his wife) "— and that it kept him alive after he
      tried to kill me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And where will <em class="calibre7">you</em> get a Horcrux?" Hermione demanded.
      "You told me you destroyed the one Voldemort made with Fiendfyre!
      There should be nothing left of anything burned with magic that
      powerful!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that's true…mostly," Harry said, slowly, deliberating
      whether he should show her and Monroe what he'd had hidden away for
      nearly two decades now. "But maybe we should finish dinner, and I
      can show the two of you something back at our flat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's expression slowly turned dangerous. "Harry…<em class="calibre7">what
      do you have in our home</em>?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it's not dangerous!" Harry hastened to say. "I killed it a
      long time ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Killed it</em>?!" Hermione's voice was the shrillest he'd
      ever heard it before today. "<em class="calibre7">Harry</em>! <em class="calibre7">You promised me
      you wouldn't kill any more Dark wizards without telling me
      first</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It bit me <em class="calibre7">first</em>," Harry said, a bit defensively. "But
      don't worry, love — it's not — quite — a dead Dark wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know I've said this before, " Monroe commented
      matter-of-factly. "But this should be interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Harry paid the bill for their meal, they walked quickly
      from Mary's Place to the public Floo station near the intersection
      of Diagon and Knockturn Alleys, paying 10 Sickles apiece for a
      small packet of Floo powder, enough for a single trip through
      Wizarding Britain's Floo Network.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll go first," Harry said, opening his packet in preparation
      to throwing it into the fireplace they'd been assigned for their
      trip. "I'll have the connection to our apartment unlocked by the
      time you and Monroe get there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Hermione said curtly; she was still aggravated at
      learning Harry had kept something secret about (presumably)
      Voldemort all these years — he hadn't said who the Dark wizard was,
      exactly, but it almost certainly had to be <em class="calibre7">that</em> particular
      one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Monroe, who gave a slight shrug of
      commiseration. It was pretty obvious that Harry's wife was pretty
      ticked at him. Harry blinked acknowledgement of Monroe's gesture
      then turned back to the fireplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He flicked the bit of Floo powder into the hearth, which
      promptly burst into brilliant green flames, burning but giving off
      no heat. "TBC Building!" Harry said loudly, then stepped into the
      flames and vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stepped up to the flames next, but instead of throwing
      her packet in she turned to face Monroe. "Do you know what he's
      going to show us?" she demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't," Monroe shook his head. "He's never mentioned
      anything about having any kind of Dark wizard artifact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at him for a moment, then seemed to slump in
      relief. "It's just been a very weird week since you showed up to
      interview Harry this last time, Mr. Monroe. I think <em class="calibre7">you've</em>
      seem more of him in the past few days that <em class="calibre7">I</em> have!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might be right," Monroe conceded. "But honestly, I don't
      know what to make of all this, either. I still don't know how I got
      my memories back or why they had been suppressed in the first
      place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was real concern in Hermione's voice. "Have you asked
      Harry for help finding out what happened? He can't resist a
      challenge like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To tell the truth," Monroe said, a bit wryly. "That hadn't
      occurred to me. We've been discussing things like the Magical
      Singularity and the Interdict of Merlin —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." She didn't look happy at that. "His 'secret' projects."
      When Monroe's expression turned wary, she waved off his concern.
      "Don't worry about it, Mr. Monroe — I know about them. I just
      didn't think he was still into that sort of thing anymore — he
      seemed more interested in the Muggle Singularity these days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was, too," Monroe said. "At least, when I was a Muggle
      myself. Now the Magical Singularity seems pretty interesting,
      except…" he trailed off, not sure if he was about to say something
      he shouldn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except…what?" Hermione prompted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well… magical knowledge isn't increasing at nearly the rate it
      should," Monroe went on. "If the Interdict of Merlin continues to
      impede magical progress, it will slow to a crawl, to almost no
      further real progress at all. That means non-magical progress will
      eventually outstrip the magical and the Technological Singularity
      will probably occur first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Assuming that's true, and I'm not sure it is, isn't that good
      for everyone either way?" Hermione asked, curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I suppose," Monroe agreed, slowly. "It might even mean
      that everyone would be able to perform magic, if our posthuman
      existence allows us to harness magic as a natural force the way
      wizards are able to now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you mentioned that to Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not in so many words."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe you should," Hermione suggested. "I don't know if he
      thinks it's a race between the Magical Singularity and the Muggle
      one, but it seems like there are reasons to work towards both.
      We'll be waiting for you on the other side." Hermione turned back
      to the fireplace and threw the packet of Floo powder in. "TBC
      Building!" she said, very clearly, and the emerald flames swirled
      about her as she disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe followed her a moment later, wondering what surprise
      Harry Potter had in store for them this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Monroe stepped from the fireplace where the Floo connection
      had deposited him, he immediately recognized where they were:
      standing in the waiting area of Harry Potter's office. Hermione was
      there waiting for him, but there was no sign of Harry. Monroe
      stepped forward to join her then turned around to look at the
      fireplace he'd just come through. It was taking up most of one wall
      of the waiting area: a finely-built stone fireplace with a large
      oak mantle crowning it. "I'm pretty sure that wasn't here the last
      time I came to visit Harry's office," he said, diffidently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was," Hermione remarked. "You just didn't know it." Looking
      at the fireplace, she said, "Close, sesame!" in a loud voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fireplace began to disappear with a loud sucking sound, as
      if it were being pulled through a small hole in the middle of the
      wall, until nothing remained but the wall itself. The divan that
      Monroe remembered sitting along that wall had somehow bubbled up
      out of the floor and nothing looked at all out of the ordinary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Handy," Monroe said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," Hermione disagreed. "We can't use it during normal
      business hours, obviously. There's another Floo connection on the
      main floor, it's our "public" connection in the building. This one,
      though, is keyed so that only a small group of people arrive here
      instead of downstairs when they Floo to the "TBC Building."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did I get here, then?" Monroe asked, mildly surprised.
      "Surely <em class="calibre7">I'm</em> not on that list —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course you are," Harry said from the doorway of his office.
      "You've been very helpful the past few days — I want your help on
      some of the things we've been talking about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was giving her husband a sidelong glance. "And what
      <em class="calibre7">has</em> Mr. Monroe been helping you with, dear?" The last word
      was said with a healthy measure of irony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, let's see." Harry began counting off items on his
      fingers. "We started by discussing paths to the Magical Singularity
      a few days ago, after Monroe learned he was a wizard who had
      attended both Hogwarts and the Salem Institute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then we got into the Interdict of Merlin, which has been a real
      hindrance to magical progress over the past 800 years. We've got to
      do something about that, obviously." Harry counted off another
      item.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then there's this question of whether souls exist or not,"
      he finished. "Which brings us to the thing I wanted to show you.
      Follow me." Harry led them into his office, where the passageway
      behind his bookshelves was already opened. But instead of walking
      down the short corridor to the private dining area, Harry tapped on
      the corridor wall itself three times. The wall melted away,
      revealing a small room beyond, with an elevator and a single
      button.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're going to the Vault," Harry told Hermione, in answer to
      the arched eyebrow she'd given him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Monroe is coming with us?" Hermione asked, trying not to
      betray the surprise she felt. As far as she knew, Harry had never
      told <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> except her about the Vault. In fact, this
      would be the first time she'd actually seen it — assuming Harry let
      them inside. Which she doubted he would. It was like his Sanctum
      Sanctorum. His Fortress of Solitude. His…well, she couldn't think
      of any more superhero hideouts, offhand, but it was something like
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pushed the button of the elevator, then remarked to
      Monroe, "It's got fingerprint <em class="calibre7">and</em> DNA recognition, so a
      Polyjuice potion alone wouldn't fool it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sweet," Monroe said, and both men nodded, smiling. Hermione
      looked away and rolled her eyes. Boys and their toys!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The elevator doors opened on a long, dimly-lit corridor. They
      walked its length, their footsteps echoing strangely back and
      forth. It was quite apparent in listening to them that three
      separate people were moving along the corridor. At the far end the
      corridor suddenly dead-ended — there was nowhere else to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked questioningly at Harry, who pointed at the blank
      wall ahead of them. "What do you think? A hidden, secret door? A
      portal, like the entrance to Diagon Alley? Perhaps a Portkey that
      I've brought with me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked around at the blank ceiling, floor, and the three
      walls around them. "It could be any of those, of course. The
      Portkey seems like the most secure method, though someone might be
      able to Plot this area and figure out where your Vault room is
      unless you've made it Unplottable. I assume the area has an
      Anti-Apparition Jinx on it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And a Portkey Hex," Harry added. "So a Portkey's not the answer
      either. I doubt if any wizard could figure this out in any length
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh for God's sake, Harry!" Hermione said loudly. "Can we just
      go inside already?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, alright!" Harry said in a placating tone. He stepped
      closer to the blank wall ahead of them and cleared his throat.
      "This is keyed to my voice only, by the way," he said,
      parenthetically, "so don't try this yourselves." Harry turned to
      the wall and sang,</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Be prepared! That's the Boy Scout's marching
      song!<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Be prepared! As through life you march
      along!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In response, the doorway opened upon a spiral metal staircase.
      "Voilà!" he said. "The entrance to the Vault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was chuckling to himself. Looking at Harry, he said in a
      sing-song voice,</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Be prepared to hold your liquor pretty
      well!<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Don't write naughty words on walls if you can't
      spell!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. Several times. "What?" he said, blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The words to that song," Monroe answered. "'Be Prepared,' by
      Tom Lehrer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a <em class="calibre7">real</em> <em class="calibre7">song</em>?" Hermione gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are <em class="calibre7">more</em> words to it?" Harry looked
      thunderstruck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, a couple of verses more," Monroe said. "Haven't either of
      you ever heard the whole thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked shocked. He looked at Hermione. "Did you know there
      were other words to that song?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't ask me!" she replied defensively. "I thought it was just
      something your parents told you so you'd be prepared for — well,
      things — life — whatever!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, never mind!" Harry said, waving off further comment, but
      promising himself he was going to Siri the words to that song the
      first chance he got. "Let's go." He stepped onto the stairs, which
      promptly began moving upward. Behind him, Hermione and Monroe
      stepped on the stairs as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a few moments the three of them stood before a non-descript
      door with a small sign on it. The sign read,</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">What's the</strong><br class="calibre4"/>
      <strong class="calibre8">magic word?</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Monroe. "From here anyone who knows the secret
      word can open it. Care to have a go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," Monroe said, flatly. "Unless it's 'recognition
      code 927, I am a potato'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said. "I already changed that after meeting you. Go
      on, guess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Harry</em>…" Hermione muttered threateningly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, all right!" Harry said, a bit irked at being hurried at the
      most important part of the whole deal. "Well, it begins with
      'Klaatu'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh!" Monroe grinned. "Klaatu barada nikto!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were close," Harry said, beaming. "But actually, it's
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned back to the door and said,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Klaatu barada n— necktie… neckturn…nickel… It's an 'N' word,
      it's definitely an 'N' word. Klaatu barada N—" and Harry
      coughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door slowly opened and Harry stepped inside, then turned
      around to face them, a wide smile across his face. "Welcome to the
      Bat Cave!" he said happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was rubbing her forehead. "I knew it was someplace like
      that…" she muttered to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gestured for them to follow; Hermione and Monroe walked
      behind him, both looking around in the room's dim lights. There
      were several rows of bookshelves immediately inside the door,
      extending off to the left and right; on his left Monroe counted six
      sets of shelves forming smaller aisles between them. He could see
      books of all different sizes arranged in them in no particular
      order — at least, none that he could discern without reading the
      titles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beyond the aisles of books were several display cases arranged
      in a more-or-less haphazard manner; Harry wandered through them,
      running a hand over one or two of them as he passed. Monroe looked
      in the cases as he passed them, but the first case held only three
      silver objects that looked more like knick-knacks than magical
      devices. The second case had a wand in it, snapped in two pieces.
      Another case had a large, jagged rock inside it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So where's the giant penny?" Monroe asked, as Harry neared the
      far wall. Hermione chuckled at that, and Harry turned around to
      give him a bemused look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's on loan to the London Museum of Magical History," he said,
      matter-of-factly; he seemed perfectly serious, but Monroe had to
      assume he was kidding. He turned back to the wall, which had four
      wooden drawers set into it, pulled one open, and took out a book,
      which he tossed to Monroe saying, "Have a look at that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe almost dropped it, but managed to hold on. The book was
      old and in bad shape; the cover was a faded and worn black, and had
      the number 1942 at the top near the outside edge. The most striking
      thing about the book, however, was the gaping hole in its center —
      Monroe could see just a bit a light showing through from the other
      side. Whatever had penetrated the book had gone all the way through
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flipping it open, Monroe found nothing but blank pages. He
      looked up at Harry and Hermione. "There's nothing in it," he said,
      not seeing anything else significant about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look on the first page," Harry suggested. Monroe opened the
      book again, and on the first page found the name "T.M. Riddle"
      written in a flowing script.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. I get it now," Monroe handed the book toward Hermione, who
      seemed reluctant to take it — she had seen the name, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached out and took it from Monroe before his wife could
      take it. "Yes, it's Tom Riddle's," he said to her. "And it was a
      Horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But — but how can that be?" Hermione seemed astonished at that
      statement. "You told me that you and Professor Dumbledore destroyed
      his Horcrux, a gold ring with a black stone setting, at the end of
      our first year!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As it turned out," Harry told her, hefting the book, "he had
      more than one or them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">More than</em> <em class="calibre7">one</em> Horcrux?" Monroe said,
      incredulous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry said. "Dumbledore and I eventually figured out that
      he split his soul in three rather than two, because three is a
      powerful magical number and because the idea of splitting one's —"
      Harry hesitated, then shrugged and said, "well, soul, more than
      once is virtually unknown in Dark wizard lore. It's never even been
      mentioned in wizarding stories like <em class="calibre7">The</em> <em class="calibre7">Tales of
      Beedle the Bard</em>. Quirrell — or Voldemort, whichever you prefer
      — probably thought he could guarantee at least one fragment of his
      soul (or whatever) would never be found and he would remain
      unkillable forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he created <em class="calibre7">two</em> Horcruxes?" Hermione looked aghast.
      "Wouldn't that significantly decrease his magical ability?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would it do that?" Monroe asked, looking puzzled. Then,
      "Oh, do you think magic is bound up in one's soul?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Hermione shook her head. "I don't know if I
      believe in souls, except that it's the only thing that explains
      Horcruxes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we have an ex-Horcrux here, now," Harry said, holding up
      the book. "We should be able to examine this for residual magic,
      maybe conduct some experiments, and see what we come up with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But even if there <em class="calibre7">was</em> a soul inside this book once,"
      Monroe argued. "Whatever you did to it released the soul, somehow?
      How does that help us figure out whether souls exist? And how
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> you destroy this Horcrux, by the way? It looks like
      you stabbed it with something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Basilisk fang," Harry said, "from the Chamber of
      Secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you <em class="calibre7">did</em> find it!" Hermione said, her tone
      accusatory again. "You told me the Chamber of Secrets was probably
      a legend!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought it was, when I told you that," Harry admitted. "But
      Dumbledore and I finally — well, it's kind of a long story, I'll
      save it for another time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you have to fight the Basilisk?" Monroe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said, almost wistfully. A True Hero would have found
      the Monster of Slytherin alive and battled with it to the death. At
      least, that was how Dumbledore had seen things — he'd been sorely
      disappointed when they found only its remains. But practicalities
      ruled back then, and they got what they came for — a way to kill
      Riddle's diary. Harry hadn't known at the time that Fiendfyre would
      have killed the diary as well, but right now he was thankful he
      hadn't, because the cursed fire would have burned the book to
      ashes, and he wouldn't have it now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suggest we put this away for now," Harry said, "and take a
      fresh look at it tomorrow. I need to wind down a bit after all the
      stuff we've been through today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You've</em> been through?" Monroe laughed, then shrugged
      and nodded. "Well, I agree — I'm beat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have a place to stay tonight, Mr. Monroe?" Hermione
      asked, in a kindly tone. "We have a guest room if you'd like to
      sleep here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Monroe smiled. "But I'm curious if Malfoy will try to
      have me picked up again if I get a room at the Leaky Cauldron
      tonight. I don't think he would dare now, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he does, he'll probably send a squad of Aurors after you,"
      Harry warned. "But I think you're probably safe, at least tonight —
      I can't imagine he's that much of a glutton for bad publicity, and
      that's exactly what he'd get without something really incriminating
      against you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about that book?" Monroe pointed to Riddle's diary. "Isn't
      that something he could charge you for — withholding a dangerous or
      Dark magical item?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled as he idly held up the tattered diary. "He could —
      if it were a Dark item. But right now it's about as dangerous as
      wet parchment. He'd find traces of magic, sure — the Department of
      Mysteries might even figure out that it was Voldemort's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come by the office about six p.m. — and not before," he warned.
      "I can make sure everyone's gone by five-thirty if I declare
      tomorrow a Casual Day. Everyone is free to leave anytime after thee
      p.m. Ginny might be a problem," Harry added parenthetically to
      Hermione, "but I'll tell her I'm going home at five-thirty, so she
      might as well go home, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, six it is, then," Monroe agreed. "Now, if one of you
      could show me how to get out of here…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe Apparated to Charing Cross Road, a short walk from the
      entrance to the Leaky Cauldron. Both Harry and his wife had asked
      him to stay in their home, but he had the impression that Hermione
      would soon figure out what he had — that Harry had probably found
      the diary Horcrux <em class="calibre7">after</em> Quirrell — or Voldemort, whichever
      way you wanted to think of him — had been killed. In that case,
      Monroe supposed, there would be a long, protracted argument going
      on in the Potter-Evans-Verres-Granger household. And Monroe
      preferred to let the couple work that out on their own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The proprietress of the Cauldron gave him a wondering look as he
      asked for a room — no doubt she was wondering what had gone on
      after she turned him in, Monroe decided, and why he was back in her
      inn <em class="calibre7">now</em>. But she said nothing to him, nor did he deign to
      enlighten her about his reasons for returning. The Cauldron was a
      nice, well-established public house, a place where wizards could
      venture forth into Muggle London or the magical Diagon Alley, and
      Monroe wanted to be able to choose either one depending on whether
      anyone decided to visit him in the middle of the night. He would be
      prepared for Ministry Aurors in case Malfoy decided to bring him in
      again despite the recent bad publicity doing so had caused him of
      late.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it would be nice, Monroe reflected, walking up to his room,
      if whoever had put him into this situation in the first place would
      pay him a visit. For surely, he thought, he would not have done
      this to <em class="calibre7">himself</em>!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his room, he cast a series of detection spells, to determine
      if there were any Muggle or magical scyring devices trained on him.
      The spells revealed nothing. Monroe began warding the room against
      any known form of magical intrusion, up to and including a
      Time-Turned wizard from hours or days in the future (allowing for
      the possibility that the Ministry could override a Time-Turner's
      six-hour limit).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With the room magically secure, Monroe began preparing for bed.
      He <em class="calibre7">Scorgify</em>ed the clothing he was wearing then placed an
      illusion charm on them to make them appear like a pajama top and
      bottom. Now a quick <em class="calibre7">Finite</em> would leave him ready for
      travel in a moment. A similar cleaning spell removed any particles
      of food remaining in his mouth and throat. He reached in his pocket
      and pulled out an exact duplicate of his wand, placing on the
      bedside table next to his bed. Anyone who managed to make it past
      his wards would suppose that he was unarmed if they saw that wand,
      indistinguishable from his own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His mind was still going over the discussions he'd had today
      with Harry and Hermione. It was true: these past few days
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> been very interesting. Monroe got into bed, covering
      himself with the sheets and blankets, then cast a Cooling Charm to
      keep from getting too warm. Monroe closed his eyes and willed
      himself to fall asleep. Tomorrow was likely to be even more
      interesting still.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
