<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 14: A Conversation with the Weasleys, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: A Conversation with the Weasleys</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Updated 6/2/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Monroe felt himself awaken, though it seemed he had barely
      settled into bed for the night. He didn't open his eyes; doing so
      would only confirm he was awake, and if none of his wards or trip
      spells were going off, he wanted to be able to drift back to sleep
      with a minimum of trouble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other hand, something didn't feel right about the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eyes still closed, Monroe began concentrating on his wards one
      by one, checking if they were still in place. All of them were
      secure — nothing had tripped any of them, including the wards he'd
      placed around his bed after he'd climbed in. The wards on the
      hallway and staircase were secure as well, which made the malaise
      he felt all the more incomprehensible. Why did it <em class="calibre7">feel</em>
      like someone was in the room if none of his wards had tripped?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wakey, wakey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe's eyes snapped open. Sitting on a chair beside the bed
      was a scowling Ron Weasley, dressed in black jeans and T-shirt.
      Monroe and Ron stared at each other for several seconds before Ron
      said, with a smirk, "Can we talk?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe glanced at the bedside table, where his wand had been. It
      was gone. Not surprising, he thought. "You might have given me a
      little more notice," Monroe replied, dryly. "We could have met over
      breakfast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't want you ducking out," Ron told him. He held up the
      wand from the bedside table. "We're going to be talking about you
      and You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe pushed himself up onto one elbow, leaning toward Ron.
      "You're under the same misapprehension the Ministry is, that I know
      anything at all about Voldemort." He watched as Ron winced slightly
      at the mention of that name. "He's been dead for decades now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Is</em> he?" Even in the dim light of the window Monroe
      could see that Ron was staring closely at him. "How would
      <em class="calibre7">you</em> know that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's common knowledge, that's what everyone thinks," Monroe
      said, sitting up all the way now. His eyes, still accustomed to
      darkness, could make out two more figures sitting in the shadows of
      his room. "Ah, I see this is a real family meeting, so to
      speak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," said Fred or George, from the shadows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you three get in here anyway?" Monroe wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We made an arrangement with Hannah," one of the twins replied.
      "She let us know which room you were staying in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Monroe made a mental note not to stay at the Leaky
      Cauldron again. "So what are you doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ickle Ronnie here convinced us we should have a little
      conversation with you, to see what your intentions concerning Harry
      are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked back at them. "Don't call me 'ickle Ronnie'!" he
      said, irritably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, Ronnikins," one of the twins said. Ron shook his head,
      frustrated, as the chairs Fred and George occupied slid forward
      toward the bed, stopping on either side of Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I'm a bit surprised you don't have me hog-tied,
      muzzled, and on the way to your shop," Monroe commented. "Seeing as
      how you managed to get past my wards so easily."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We couldn't —" Ron began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wound us, Mr. Monroe," Fred said, speaking over Ron. "We
      couldn't be that rude." Ron shot his brother a look but said
      nothing. "We thought we'd give you the opportunity to respond in a
      more — oh, neutral, shall we say — environment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Monroe said, dryly. "So what are your concerns?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry's our friend," Fred began. "You haven't been here a week
      yet and he's already had more dealings with you than we've have
      with him in a year. We've had Ministry people snooping around our
      shops, looking for evidence against <em class="calibre7">you</em>, they said, though
      they haven't found anything we didn't want them to find."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And those things they didn't find," Monroe interrupted. "Are
      they things you have concerns about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," George said, neutrally. "The real question is,
      <em class="calibre7">why</em> are they so interested in you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe because he's a wizard who's been pretending to be a
      Muggle for years," Ron suggested, in a sarcastic tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's probably a good reason," Monroe admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a <em class="calibre7">very</em> good reason," Fred agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm almost surprised we haven't yet sorted out why you did
      that," George added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because he's hiding something, obviously," Ron growled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not hiding anything," Monroe declared. "I don't even know
      <em class="calibre7">why</em> I was pretending to be Muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron snorted derision, and Monroe saw the twins glance at one
      another. "Are you willing to prove that?" Fred or George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?" Monroe asked. "Shall we go ask the Ministry for three
      drops of Veritaserum?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, not exactly, but close," Fred allowed. "We've been
      working on something — similar, shall we say, to Veritaserum.
      Something that's not Ministry controlled or regulated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least, so far," George also allowed. "We're still working
      out how to keep it a secret once we begin marketing it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe sat up straighter. "Are you saying you have a truth serum
      as good as Veritaserum?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Better, actually," Fred said, a bit affronted. "Why duplicate
      something when you can improve on it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About the only real improvement to Veritaserum would be an
      effectiveness against perfect Occlumens," Monroe suggested. "Does
      your purported serum have that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would be telling, wouldn't it?" Ron sneered. "Are you
      saying you're a perfect Occlumens? Are you afraid to take the
      chance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not without knowing what other side effects there may be,"
      Monroe replied, ignoring Ron's first question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Afraid?" Ron suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cautious," Monroe corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," George said. "How about this, then? You can take
      it after we try it out on Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What</em>?" Ron sputtered, outraged. "Me? What're you
      picking on <em class="calibre7">me</em> for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you <em class="calibre7">are</em> the one who came to us with these claims
      about Mr. Monroe, Ronnie dear," Fred pointed out. "It seems only
      fair that we make sure what your intentions are in leveling these
      charges against the man, don't you think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded. "It's fair. I agree to those conditions. And that
      you have to tell me how you made it past my protection spells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George looked at one another. "Done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell," Ron muttered. "Remind me not to bring you two
      along to my next interrogation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you want to do this?" Monroe asked. He was sitting on
      the side of his bed, still in his nightclothes. "Will I get to ask
      questions too during Ron's turn?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Ron said, flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Fred and George said, smiling. Ron shot them a dark
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to get to ask <em class="calibre7">him</em> questions when it's
      your turn, little brother," Fred said, reasonably. "It's only fair.
      Now hand over Mr. Monroe's wand, and yours too. We might as well
      make this as even as we can." Ron did not look happy at this, but
      surrendered the wands without a word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe watched interestedly as Fred took out a small potion vial
      and George conjured a small glass filled with water. Ron was
      watching, too, but his expression was a bit more…worried than
      Monroe's. As George held the glass out in front of Ron, Fred tipped
      three drops from the vial into it, and George handed it to Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Down the hatch," George said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bottoms up," Fred added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Drop dead," Ron snapped, but took the glass and slowly drained
      it. He stared into the bottom of the glass for a moment, then said,
      "I can taste it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You always say that," Fred scoffed. "It's as tasteless as
      water."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Ron looked puzzled. "This is the first time
      I've ever tried it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe caught a quick smile that passed between the twins. "What
      next?" he asked, watching Ron carefully now. "How long before it
      goes into effect?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's ready," George said. "Ron, tell us what we're doing here
      in Mr. Monroe's room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron, who'd been fidgeting and looking back and forth at his
      brothers, had settled down and was looking straight ahead,
      seemingly calm and relaxed. "We're here to question Monroe on what
      he knows about You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you think I know anything about him?" Monroe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You and Harry Potter have been acting strangely since you
      showed up a few days ago," Ron said, quietly. "And when we had
      lunch with Harry a few days ago he suggested that You-Know-Who
      might not be dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred frowned. "I don't remember it that way," he said, looking
      from Ron to George. "I thought Harry said that there was no way to
      test whether Quirrell was dead short of using the Resurrection
      Stone, and nobody knows where that is, so it's moot anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's how <em class="calibre7">I</em> remember it," Ron insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what other evidence do you have that You-Know-Who might be
      alive?" George asked Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," Ron said, then appeared to be thinking for several
      seconds. "Malfoy thinks he might be, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how do you know what <em class="calibre7">Malfoy</em> thinks?" Fred wanted
      to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I went to see him the other day, after I left the shop," Ron
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Fred and George both said, looking at their brother in
      shock. "Why would you do that?" Monroe was now listening with
      intense interest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I was mad at Harry and wanted to teach him a lesson,"
      Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Teach him a lesson for what?" Monroe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because he's got these two Confunded or something," Ron said,
      pointing to the twins. "They think he can do no wrong. But Ginny's
      told me about a lot of his business dealings and if he's screwing
      the Muggles out of money, he's probably screwing us, too!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know how Muggle business works, Ron," Monroe said.
      "Harry's job as CEO is to make sure his business <em class="calibre7">makes
      money</em>. He's a shrewd businessman, but Muggle business doesn't
      work like it does here in Diagon Alley. Well, it's similar, but the
      goblins at Gringotts only instituted seigniorage a number of years
      ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked at him blankly. Both Fred and George were shaking
      their heads. "What's <em class="calibre7">that</em>?" Fred asked. "I've heard Harry
      use the word, but he didn't explain it to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the goblins are doing is altering the amount of gold and
      silver in their coins, decreasing the ratio of the precious
      metals," Monroe explained. "Until they started doing this Galleons
      and Sickles were pure silver and gold, respectively. Harry's told
      me a little about the goblins and their money. I think Harry has
      said the ratio is something like 90 percent, and they continue to
      lower the ratio over time. They are using the gold and silver that
      doesn't go into coins to speculate in precious metals commodities
      in the Muggle markets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George's eyes narrowed. "That sounds like the goblins are using
      metal that should be in our coins to make themselves richer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically," Monroe agreed. "But they are also increasing the
      wealth of the Ministry of Magic compared to other Wizarding
      communities, the ones that don't use goblins to manage their gold
      and silver. In the Muggle market the value of one Galleon is worth
      about fifty to fifty-five British pounds, not five, which is the
      normal exchange rate at Gringotts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizarding Britain becoming more solvent is also good for Muggle
      Britain as well, as long as they speculate wisely with their own
      gold and silver."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George looked at each other again. "Could this
      'seigniorage' help us increase our profits?" Fred asked,
      shrewdly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Monroe said. "You can't mint coins." The twins'
      expressions fell. "But you can still spin money by providing better
      product than your competitors. I assume no one else is in the
      Muggle electronics business yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are a few new shops trying to copy us," George shrugged.
      "But they're just trying to reverse-engineer our products and we're
      careful to put on spellbreakers that activate if anyone tries to
      fiddle with them. We provide warranty work for up to a year on most
      of our products, but the warranty is void if you try to figure out
      how it works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded; it seems the twins <em class="calibre7">did</em> understand
      something about Muggle business practices. He looked back at Ron.
      "Let's get back to business here. Ron, do you <em class="calibre7">really</em> think
      Harry has your brothers under some kind of spell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment Ron shook his head slowly. "No, I don't. But it
      pisses me off that they think he can do no wrong. He's done a lot
      of things in his life that he can't be proud of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such as?" Monroe prompted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like…" Ron seemed to grope for something to say. "Well, the
      stuff he did at school — like trying to get Quidditch changed.
      Everybody <em class="calibre7">hated</em> that. And our fifth year when he incited
      everyone to disobey the DADA teacher that year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean Umbridge?" Fred scowled. "Nobody like her, Ron. She
      was trying to shut down our magical education system!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was trying to revamp it!" Ron insisted. "We wouldn't have
      had nearly as much homework once she got things changed
      around!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because we wouldn't have been <em class="calibre7">learning</em> anything!" Fred
      snapped. "Thank Merlin that was our last year at Hogwarts, and we
      could pull out when we did!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what did your General Granger think of what Umbridge was
      doing?" George wanted to know, throwing a look at his twin as he
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, she wasn't happy, either," Ron admitted, a sullen tone
      creeping into his voice. "But she would've kept on learning on her
      own, anyway. That's what she <em class="calibre7">did</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe opened his mouth to ask a question but Fred held up a
      hand. "What did you think of Hermione back then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron blinked several times. "Um, well, I really liked her, o'
      course. She was very nice for a Ravenclaw — she'd help anyone who
      would ask her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you asked her for help quite a lot, didn't you?" George
      asked, smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Homework was hard!" Ron insisted. "I could barely keep up, even
      <em class="calibre7">with</em> her help!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that wasn't the only reason you wanted to spend time with
      her, was it?" Monroe asked, seeing where the twins' questioning was
      going.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Ron said, in a small voice. "I — I — l-l-l —
      <em class="calibre7">liked</em> her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe sat back, intrigued. What was Ron going to think after
      the potion wore off and he realized he'd spilled his guts to them?
      "Do you like her now?" Fred and George both stared at their younger
      brother, keen to hear his answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I — uh — well, yes," Ron said, nodding slightly. "But I married
      Luna!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you still love Luna?" George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Ron insisted, nodding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how do you feel about Hermione?" Fred pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I — well, I — guess I…" Ron's eyes fluttered and he slumped
      forward, asleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh drat," Fred said. He looked at George. "Did that happen
      faster than last time?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think so," George answered. He looked at Monroe. "Each time
      we use our serum on someone, they come out from under it faster and
      faster. We don't know if there's a lower limit to the duration of
      the potion or not. A larger dose just builds up immunity
      faster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked at Ron, now slumped forward in his chair. "How mad
      do you think he'll be when he wakes and remembers you quizzed him
      about Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George both beamed. "Well, that's another improvement
      we made over Veritaserum," George said. "Once the serum takes
      effect you don't remember anything you've said while under its
      influence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that sounds useful," Monroe agreed. "Especially when
      questioning close family members."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes." Fred glanced at his sleeping younger brother. "He'll wake
      up in a few seconds and we'll begin the second round of
      questioning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe sat quietly, but his mind was working furiously on how to
      deal with this situation. There were some things that he and Harry
      didn't want the Weasleys to know. But if this serum was as good as
      Fred and George claimed (and it probably was — the Weasley twins
      were pretty sharp) then even <em class="calibre7">Harry</em> might have difficulty
      beating it. But there might be things he could do, barring
      Occlumency, that could keep him from spilling the beans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron suddenly sat up, then looked around blearily. "Did I fall
      asleep?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      he asked, rubbing his eyes. "What did I miss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Fred said smoothly. "We're about to give Mr. Monroe
      the serum." George was holding out another glass of water, and Fred
      tipped three drops of the serum into it and handed it to
      Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cheers," Monroe said, and drank it down. Ron lost his bleary
      look and began smiling in anticipation of grilling him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The change that came over him was very subtle, Monroe
      discovered. He was beginning to feel the urge to <em class="calibre7">be
      honest</em>. It was almost as if someone had cast an Imperius Curse
      on him and commanded him to tell the truth. If the Weasleys had
      found a way to incorporate that curse into a potion…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But you could <em class="calibre7">resist</em> an Imperius if you knew how, if
      you had the will to do so. And if that was what made the Weasleys'
      serum so effective, it could be resisted as well. Monroe relaxed,
      becoming calm and quiet, and waited for the questioning to
      begin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He looks ready," Fred was saying. "Let's jump right in, then.
      Mr. Monroe, tell us everything you know about You-Know-Who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a lot to tell," Monroe answered. "His real name was Tom
      Marvolo Riddle. He attended Hogwarts from September 1938 to June
      1945. He was made a prefect in 1942 and Head Boy in 1944. He won a
      medal for Magical Merit and for Special Services to Hogwarts in
      1943. He worked at Borgin and Burkes for a while after leaving
      Hogwarts, then disappeared for about a decade, reappearing at
      Hogwarts in 1956 to ask the new Headmaster, Albus Dumbledore, for
      the Defense Against the Dark Arts position. Dumbledore did not give
      him the job, and Riddle cursed the position so that no one teaching
      it would hold the position for more than a year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All of that is pretty boilerplate," George remarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What we want to know," Ron jumped in, "is what you know about
      You-Know-Who <em class="calibre7">now</em>, today!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've just told what I know about Riddle today," Monroe replied,
      tonelessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not what I meant!" Ron snapped. He looked at Fred and
      George. "Are you sure this stuff works?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It has so far," George replied. "Mr. Monroe, do you know
      anything about You-Know-Who's whereabouts today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shook his head. "He's supposed to be dead, killed in 1992
      during a battle with Harry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it possible he wasn't killed then?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe stared at him a moment. "Of course it is," he said at
      last. "But Harry would know more about that than I would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has he said anything about it to you?" George probed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've talked about Voldemort," Monroe admitted, making Ron
      flinch again slightly. "But only because he accused me of being
      him, or being possessed by him, due to my time pretending to be a
      Muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you convince him otherwise?" Ron demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He poured goblin anti-concealment water on me," Monroe
      answered. "Nothing happened — Voldemort didn't pop out of me, and I
      didn't regain my memories of why I was pretending to be a
      Muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know what Malfoy suspects about you?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The same thing you do," Monroe answered. "That I have some
      connection with Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You seem to have a lot of people thinking that about you," Ron
      pointed out. "So why shouldn't we be taking it seriously?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Monroe shrugged. "Maybe you should, but I can
      only tell you what I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, then," Fred muttered. "So tell us what you remember of
      your time at Hogwarts. How long did you attend school there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I attended until the end of my second year," Monroe said.
      "After that my parents and I decided we weren't going to deal with
      the craziness going on there — Dumbledore's strangeness, the
      problem with the Defense professor — the person that taught in my
      second year was a complete idiot, and Harry himself was causing
      quite a bit of trouble there with school activities like
      Quidditch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George both smiled, remembering The Year Without the
      Snitch. "Yes, that was a rather unusual year," George recalled.
      "Were you a Quidditch fan like Ronnie here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was the worst year for Quidditch <em class="calibre7">ever</em>," Ron
      declared, scowling. "Potter made the game unplayable <em class="calibre7">and</em>
      unwatchable!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't care that much for Quidditch," Monroe said. "But a lot
      of class time was wasted in discussions of the games — even the
      teachers would start talking about them! Our learning experience
      was being eroded. And we never learned anything in Lockheart's
      classes anyway — the man spent most of the time talking about
      himself instead of teaching Defense Against the Dark Arts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds like Monroe and Hermione would have made a good couple,"
      Fred muttered to George, across Ron, who glared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That might be a good question," George smiled. To Monroe he
      said, "What did you think of Hermione Granger back then? Did you
      like her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was okay," Monroe replied. "She was a fellow Ravenclaw, and
      she was very helpful to other students who weren't as advanced as
      her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But did you <em class="calibre7">like</em> her?" Fred pressed. Ron had a taut
      expression on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was not at Hogwarts to meet girls," Monroe said. "I wasn't
      even in my teens when I left. Hermione was nice, but she was still
      a <em class="calibre7">girl</em>. At Salem things were different — I was older and
      the girls were — well, beginning to fill out." Unconsciously Ron
      exhaled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you ever get married, then?" George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think so," Monroe said. "I don't remember much after
      leaving Salem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What <em class="calibre7">do</em> you remember after that?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remember getting the job at <em class="calibre7">Singularity Today</em>
      magazine," Monroe replied. "But by then I thought I had moved back
      to Britain from America."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you don't remember <em class="calibre7">anything</em> between Salem and
      then?" Ron asked, skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shook his head. "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked at his brothers. "He's lying, somehow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Fred declared. "The more he tries to avoid telling the
      truth, the more the potion compels him to do so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded. "So I'm probably right — you incorporated an
      Imperius Curse into your truth serum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George both raised an eyebrow. "Bravo," Fred said.
      "Brilliant deduction, Sherlock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked horrified. "Why did you tell him <em class="calibre7">that</em>? He's
      going to turn us in!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because he won't remember," George replied. "We also
      incorporated a Memory Charm into the potion. Mr. Monroe won't
      remember a thing after the serum wears off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Ron's expression had gone horrified again. "And you were
      going to try that out on me? When were you going to tell me about
      <em class="calibre7">that</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We told you every time we gave it to you, little brother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I probably won't remember," Monroe agreed. "But I <em class="calibre7">do</em>
      have a pretty good track record theses days beating Memory
      Charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if you do remember," Fred mused. "Going to the Ministry
      won't do you much good, if Malfoy suspects that you're connected
      with You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He might want you more now, especially if he thinks you have a
      better truth potion than Veritaserum," Monroe pointed out,
      blinking. He was beginning to feel sleepy — the last stage before
      the potion wore off. The question was, how much <em class="calibre7">would</em> he
      remember?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, we've had rumors circulating around Diagon Alley for years
      about a 'super-Veritaserum'," George answered cheerfully. "Malfoy
      will think it's just another one of those. And even if he does send
      Ministry folk to search our shops again, he won't find
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too bad we can't chat longer, Mr. Monroe," Fred said, a bit
      regretfully. "I'd really like to know what Harry sees in you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe a kindred soul," Monroe answered, then yawned hugely.
      "I'm interested in a lot of the same things he is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be it," Fred muttered. "But I'm not convinced. We may
      have to do this again sometime."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, I won't…<em class="calibre7">yaaaaaaaaaawn</em>…agree to this again,"
      Monroe murmured. "Er, before I fall asleep, tell me how you got
      past my wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George smiled. "We didn't. We used a spell to hide
      ourselves in your room before you came up to bed," one of them
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What spell?" Monroe wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We didn't agree to tell you that," the other said. "And now,
      good night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe opened his mouth, but no words came out. His head slumped
      forward, and he began to snore softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that was a bust," Ron said, chagrinned, as Monroe snored.
      "We didn't learn anything from him." He put out a hand and pushed
      Monroe so he fell back on his bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We learned he doesn't know anything," George said. "Even though
      you insisted he did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was certain he had to!" Ron said, defensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure you were." Fred turned to George. "Do you think we can
      find a way past his wards before he wakes up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doubt it," George said. "They are rock solid. We may have to
      wait until he checks out in the morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bother," Fred said. He shot Ron a dark look for the
      inconvenience he'd caused them. "Well, let's get hidden and wait it
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Monroe felt himself awaken, though it seemed he had barely
      settled into sleep for the night. He didn't open his eyes; doing so
      would only confirm he was awake, and none of his wards or trip
      spells were going off; after a few moments he drifted back to
      sleep.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
