<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 15: The Interdict Deciphered, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: The Interdict Deciphered</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Updated</em> 6/16/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">August had slouched its way into September, and September blew
      into October, until the most important holiday on the Wizarding
      calendar loomed just ahead — All Hallows' Eve, now known as Harry
      Potter Day. The day was cause for much celebration amongst the
      magicals of Britain, with dozens of parties where many of the
      merry-makers dressed up in Harry Potter costumes (school robes,
      round glasses and in some cases, wigs of unruly black hair).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, for Harry, the day was still The Dark Lord Killed My
      Parents Day. Thankfully, though, time had erased much of the
      sadness of the occasion for him, and he no longer spent the day in
      hiding, as he had during most of his years at Hogwarts, where he
      stayed in his trunk and ate snack bars rather than go to the Great
      Hall for meals. Now he usually immersed himself in work at TBC
      Enterprises, Ltd., staying in his office until after midnight.
      Hermione, as Minister of Magic, usually hosted a party for Ministry
      personnel held somewhere in Diagon Alley — this year it would be at
      the Leaky Cauldron, so that anyone who didn't feel like going home
      afterwards could stay there for the night. All of the rooms had
      been reserved by October 13th this year, and other inns along
      Diagon Alley were fully reserved as well, indicating a fine turnout
      for this happiest day of the year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should think about attending," Hermione gently suggested
      one night, not long before the day arrived. "It's been twenty-five
      years, after all, Harry — it would do you some good to get out with
      other wizards and enjoy the celebration. I know it was a sad day
      for you, but it also gave hope back to many people in magical
      Britain, knowing that you had defeated Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry muttered, trying not to snap at his wife, who
      after all <em class="calibre7">was</em> trying to help him in her own way. "But you
      know what I think about that, love."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Hermione smiled, a bit ruefully. "Most people are
      committing the fallacy of the <em class="calibre7">fundamental attribution</em>
      error, ascribing Voldemort-killing abilities to you when it was
      actually your mother's sacrifice of her own life that provided the
      protection that saved you from Voldemort's Killing Curse, and
      destroyed him. <em class="calibre7">Almost</em> destroyed him, that is," she added,
      unnecessarily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry managed a small smile. The way she said all that
      usually made him smile; she'd heard him say it it so many times now
      it must be indelibly inscribed in her memory. As it was in his.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if you <em class="calibre7">aren't</em> going to change your mind about
      going, what do you plan on doing tonight?" Hermione asked. "Work in
      your office?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was what Harry usually did these days. But, "I think Monroe
      and I are going to do some spell research," Harry finally said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, I see." Hermione's response had been toneless, but with an
      undercurrent of disapproval. She wasn't sure what they were
      researching these days, exactly, but in the past they had been
      working on controversial subjects like the existence of souls, the
      source of magic in the world, and things she didn't quite
      understand, like the Singularity. These were things best suited for
      the Department of Mysteries, regulated and controlled by the
      Ministry, not for private conversations held in the home of the
      Minister of Magic — or worse, in some pub where anyone might
      overhear. She almost preferred that they meet at Mary's Place, in
      the specially-enchanted room there that kept conversations private,
      even though the cost of reserving that room made it unusable by
      almost anyone, and thus an item of interest whenever it was
      reserved these days, especially by someone like Harry Potter!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had caught the disapproval in his wife's voice. "Don't
      worry, love," he told her. "We're not breaking any laws." <em class="calibre7">At
      least, not so far</em>, he added to himself. The Department of
      Mysteries would be <em class="calibre7">mightily</em> interested in what he and
      Monroe were researching, thought, if they were to find out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Interdict of Merlin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That spell, possibly the most powerful single spell ever cast,
      more than 800 years ago, was the major reason magical research was
      slowly grinding to a halt, and the biggest contributor to the loss
      of magical knowledge over the past eight centuries. Merlin may have
      believed that once wizards were forced to share their most powerful
      spells with one another personally rather than through books or
      scrolls, that there would be more of a spirit of cooperation
      amongst magical folk, but he'd obviously had a higher opinion of
      the Wizarding community than was deserved. The most powerful spells
      were hoarded and guarded, preserved in books only the author could
      read, until everyone who knew the spell had died before passing it
      on and its secret was lost to the Wizarding world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Interdict had spread outward from Britain, wherever magic
      was practiced, until only the most desolate, inhospitable places on
      Earth hadn't been touched by it. Many magical cultures never even
      realized the Interdict was in effect until the International
      Confederation of Wizards established the International Statute of
      Wizarding Secrecy and the details of the Interdict were made public
      to the world, due in large part to indiscretion on the part of the
      British members at that time. The news was not well-received, and
      relations between Britain and many other wizarding communities
      became strained. To this day Britain, though it was once considered
      the most powerful wizarding community in the world, was now
      considered a backwater community. The Ministry of Magic, of course,
      did not share that opinion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Big Day finally arrived. Harry spent that day, a Monday, at
      work as usual, leaving only a little early to avoid anyone asking
      him on their way out if he was attending the party at the Leaky
      Cauldron that year. At home, he immersed himself in a book until
      Hermione arrived home from the Ministry to change for the
      party.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still not going?" Hermione asked from the bedroom as she
      changed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said, still reading his book. "I don't think life in
      Wizarding Britain will grind to a halt, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope not," Hermione agreed, smiling. "Are you and Mr. Monroe
      having dinner at Mary's Place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Monroe met a couple of times a week to continue their
      discussions on various matters of import to both of them. "No,"
      Harry replied, putting down the book he'd been reading, a tome on
      spell research methods from one Remus Lupin. "I thought he and I
      would eat in tonight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Hermione was taken aback somewhat. "Has he tasted your
      cooking before tonight?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha-ha," Harry said, sardonically. "I'm having Ginny pick up
      something for us before she goes home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's still at work?" Hermione gave him a look from the bedroom
      door. "You slave-driver."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put up his hands. "Hey, I'm not forcing her to stay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked solemn. "Well, from what she's said to me, she
      and Dean have been going through a rough patch for the past few
      months."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She hasn't said anything to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well, she wouldn't</em>, Hermione thought to herself. She
      knew well enough that Ginny had nursed feelings for Harry for a
      long time now. But Harry seemed oblivious to it, so Hermione had
      let that sleeping dog lie. She picked up her wrap. "You and Mr.
      Monroe have a nice time tonight with your 'research.' I should be
      home about one or so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have a nice time tonight," Harry said, as Hermione walked over
      and pecked him on the mouth. Smiling, she rubbed Harry's shoulder
      then made her way down the corridor that led to the anteroom where
      their private Floo entrance was, taking it to the first floor so
      she could walk outside and Apparate to the Leaky Cauldron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was really too bad she couldn't get Harry out more these
      days, Hermione thought to herself as she tapped the door leading
      from the first floor Floo room, silently casting
      <em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em>. He was getting too wound up in his magical
      research with Monroe. Not really a bad thing, she admitted to
      herself; who knew, they might actually come up with something
      useful. She closed the door behind her, relocking it with
      <em class="calibre7">Colloportus</em>, and made her way to the exit of the TBC
      Building.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Monroe walked briskly through the darkening streets of
      London, heading toward Harry's apartment above his business
      offices. He could have Apparated to the building in a moment, but
      walking gave him time to think. He'd had to do a lot of thinking
      lately, what with all the discussions they'd had over the past
      three months, three months of effort that they had very little
      results to show for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that a lack of results was discouraging — concepts such as
      where magic had come from and whether man had an imperishable soul
      had been debated for decades and centuries; it wasn't like he or
      Harry were going to solve them in three months! Their discussions
      had given them both a lot to think about, things both Muggle and
      magical, and the time had passed quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why hello!" Monroe looked up to find Ginny Thomas walking
      beside him, carrying a large sack from a nearby wizarding café. "I
      wondered if I'd see you while I was out getting dinner," she
      continued, smiling at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Ms. Thomas," Monroe nodded, smiling as well. "What are
      we having tonight?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She held up the bag. "Sandwiches from Mo's. I've got several
      kinds in here — Diracawl and crisps, chip buttys with bacon or
      sausage, and stoat rolls. Oh, and I got a couple of Dirigible Plum
      and sprout sandwiches, in case you or Harry are feeling vegetarian
      today," she added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds tasty," Monroe commented, a hint of irony in his voice.
      They arrived at the TBC Building and he opened the door for her,
      then followed her across the lobby to a hallway were they would
      take the private Floo connection up to Harry and Hermione's
      apartment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just at the hallway entrance they ran into Hermione herself
      coming out. "Oh, I see dinner's here," Hermione said, smiling at
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Minister," Ginny said with a grin. She always called
      Hermione "Minister" when they first greeted one another. "Off to
      the party?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Hermione nodded. "I tried to get Harry to go this time,
      but he still won't…" She turned to Monroe. "I don't know if Harry
      has told you what today is…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've gathered," Monroe replied. "It's all over wizarding London
      — Harry Potter Day. This is the first time I've actually been
      around, of course — they didn't celebrate it in America.
      What's-His-Name wasn't that big a deal over there, though it made a
      lot of people happy when Harry took care of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded perfunctorily, as if distracted, then smiled at
      Ginny. "Are you and Dean coming to the Cauldron for the party
      tonight?" she inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wish," Ginny said, ruefully. "Dean's working late tonight."
      She pointed upward. "He's still up there, somewhere. I brought a
      couple of sandwiches for him, though he sometimes gets so busy he
      works right through supper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Hermione put on another perfunctory smile. "Well, you both
      are welcome if you decide to attend — we'll be going until well
      after midnight, if history is any indication. And you as well, Mr.
      Monroe — if you can get Harry to come with, or even if you can't,
      we'd love to see you there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll keep it in mind," Monroe replied, with a nod of thanks.
      "If we finish our discussion early it would be interesting to see
      what a Harry Potter Day party is like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm off, then," Hermione waved at them then continued across
      the lobby and out the main doors, as Monroe and Ginny walked down
      the hallway, stopping in front of a door marked Building
      Maintenance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny slid her wand out and tapped the door knob, muttering
      "<em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em>," as the knob made a loud <em class="calibre7">click</em>.
      Monroe opened the door for her and they stepped inside the room
      containing only a stone fireplace with a walnut mantelpiece. Taking
      a pinch of powder from a bowl on the mantle, Ginny tossed it into
      the fireplace. Emerald flames blazed forth from the hearth and
      Ginny stepped into them, saying "Potter-Evans-Verres private
      entrance!" and disappearing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe duplicated her actions, appearing several seconds later
      in the anteroom of the Potter residence. Ginny was waiting for him
      at the door. Together they walked down the hallway adjoining the
      antechamber with the Potter residence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up as they walked in, then marked his place in
      <em class="calibre7">Spell Research Methodologies and Practices</em> and put the
      book aside. "Good," he said. "I'm starving! What did you bring us
      today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mo's," Ginny replied, setting the bag on the dining room table
      and taking out several wrapped sandwiches and bags of chips and
      crisps. "I got something for Dean, too," she told Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't you two going to the party at the Leaky Cauldron?" Harry
      asked, curiously. "I thought you went every year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shrugged as she pointed her wand, summoning bottles of
      butterbeer from the kitchen. "He wanted to work tonight," she said,
      indifferently. "I wasn't going to argue with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe and Harry glanced at one another. That phrase was one
      Ginny said more and more often these days; she and Dean were seldom
      seen together these days, at work or anywhere else. Neither of them
      had mentioned anything to her, however — to Harry it was part of
      her personal life, and while he and Ginny had been close for a
      while back in Hogwarts, it had never developed into anything.
      Monroe, for his part, considered it none of his business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what are you two going to talk about tonight?" Ginny asked,
      changing the subject.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More of the same, probably," Monroe put in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In other words," Harry elaborated, "whatever comes to mind,
      most likely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny nodded, looking thoughtful. "D'you mind if I listen in for
      a while?" she asked. "I'll bring Dean his sandwich later, when he's
      more likely to be hungry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny had never stayed before. Harry glanced at Monroe, who made
      a <em class="calibre7">It's-your-call</em> shrug. Harry glanced at his watch. "It's
      nearly six," he said. "He's probably hungry by now." He sat down at
      the table across from Monroe, who'd already taken a seat there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny handed Harry a wrapped Diracawl sandwich, his favorite.
      "He might be," she admitted. "But unless he's starving he'll want
      to finish his work first, and he might forget all about food until
      he gets home. I'd rather bring him his meal when he's hungry enough
      to eat it right then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded with a shrug; Ginny knew Dean better in that regard
      than he did. Harry himself usually paid little attention to food,
      especially during these discussion meetings with Monroe. The
      discussions were always much more fascinating that wondering where
      or when they'd be eating on those nights. "What <em class="calibre7">were</em> we
      talking about the other night?" he asked Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Interdict," Monroe replied. He knew Harry remembered
      exactly what they'd been talking about; he rarely forgot anything
      about their discussion, being able to pick up precisely wherever
      they'd left off when they ended a discussion for the night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is what?" Ginny asked, looking at them curiously. She had
      picked up a Dirigible Plum and sprout sandwich and a butterbeer for
      herself. "I remember reading about that in school, but it's been
      too long…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was the last spell cast by Merlin," Harry explained. "He is
      supposed to have cast it in response to the other wizards of his
      time not working hard enough to prevent the end of the world due to
      misuse of magic. It's been in absolute force for the past 800
      years, unchanging and invincible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Ginny set down the bottle of butterbeer she'd just taken a
      drink from. "So why are you and Mr. Monroe talking about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're looking for a way to beat it," Harry smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unsuccessfully, so far," Monroe added, wryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why even try?" Ginny wondered, looking a bit alarmed. "The
      Ministry can't be happy about that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What they don't know won't worry them," Harry retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But surely your wife knows!" Ginny pointed out. "What does she
      think about all this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, she doesn't like it, not one bit," Harry shrugged. "But
      unless she hears that we actually tried to <em class="calibre7">break</em> the
      Interdict, or something of that nature, there's no law that says we
      can't <em class="calibre7">discuss</em> it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For all the good it's done us," Monroe muttered, chewing on a
      bite of his sandwich. "We've talked about it for months, on and
      off, and haven't come up with anything. I'm about ready to go back
      to disproving the existence of the soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny looked back and forth between the two men, frowning.
      "Disproving the existence of the <em class="calibre7">soul</em>? You've <em class="calibre7">got</em>
      to be joking!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on," Harry gently chided her. "You have to know I don't
      believe in stuff like that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I — I thought that was just part of your Muggle persona," Ginny
      replied. "Harry, <em class="calibre7">you're</em> the one who kept me from being
      taken over by that — that <em class="calibre7">book</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry nodded. He'd been thinking about that recently
      as well. When Ginny began attending Hogwarts at the beginning of
      Harry's second year, she'd found an extra book among the ones her
      parents had gotten for her at Flourish and Blotts. Harry had later
      heard, through Hermione, that there'd been an "altercation" at the
      bookstore between Mr. Weasley and Lucius Malfoy. Hermione and her
      parents had been there as well; they'd gone with her to see Diagon
      Alley and happened to run into the Weasleys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was all very interesting," Hermione had reported to Harry
      afterwards, before the Sorting and Start of Year feast had begun.
      Mr. Weasley is <em class="calibre7">very</em> interested in non-magical people. He
      even collects electrical plugs and other things, like batteries and
      Muggle kitchen utensils." She giggled. "He kept calling electricity
      'eckeltricity,' though — it was so charming!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But then," and her voice had gone serious, "he and Mr. Malfoy
      were standing almost nose-to-nose, arguing. Mr. Malfoy had taken
      Ginny's cauldron full of books and was making fun of them — they'd
      had to buy most of them second-hand — and Mr. Weasley was trying to
      get them back. They almost came to blows, but Mr. Malfoy finally
      handed the cauldron back to Ginny and walked out of the store."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and his mother Petunia had gone to Diagon Alley a few
      weeks earlier, a few days after he'd turned twelve and his letter
      came with his list for supplies and books for that year. Most of
      the books on the list were by someone named Gilderoy Lockhart, and
      Harry later learned that every student at Hogwarts had to buy those
      same books, no matter what year they were in. He'd taken an instant
      dislike to Lockhart, who'd somehow managed to get all of his books
      on the schoolbook buy list for every student in school, which was
      probably making him a hill of gold. Later, at the Hogwarts feast,
      it had become quite obvious why that had happened — Lockhart
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> the Defense professor that year! Such shameless egoism
      earned Lockhart Harry's instant enmity for the entire school
      year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remember," Harry told Ginny. "You spent almost the entire
      year with that diary in your possession, until I found you in that
      abandoned bathroom, nearly unconscious, and took it away from
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe had been listening to this exchange intently. "But what
      about —" his tongue suddenly locked against the roof of his mouth
      as Harry raised a finger in warning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We <em class="calibre7">don't know</em> what was going on with Ginny and that
      book," Harry said, his words making it clear that he wasn't to say
      anything about what he knew to Ginny. "And we may never know,
      unfortunately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Ginny had caught Harry's motion and Monroe's sudden silence.
      "You <em class="calibre7">do</em> know something," she snapped at Harry, accusingly.
      "What did you do with that book, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at her for a long moment, seeming to weigh
      something he might or might not say. Finally he stood and walked
      slowly from the room, returning with a dark gray stone box. He set
      it on the table next to Ginny and gestured for her to open it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny stared at the box, looking almost afraid to open it, but
      she finally reached out and slowly opened the lid. "Oh, Merlin,"
      she breathed, when she saw what was inside. "It's that book, Harry!
      But what <em class="calibre7">happened</em> to it?" She lifted the tattered, ripped
      diary from the box, looking at the hole punched through its
      center.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had to kill it," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Kill</em> it?" Ginny looked at him, puzzled, turning the
      diary over in her hand. "What in Merlin's name are you talking
      about? Why would you kill a <em class="calibre7">book</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't an ordinary book," Harry said, quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I gathered that," Ginny said, dryly. "But what <em class="calibre7">about</em>
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You remember that I told you afterward that the book was cursed
      with Dark magic and that it was negatively affecting you?" Harry
      reminded her. Ginny nodded, waiting. "Well, it <em class="calibre7">was</em> Dark
      magic, but that wasn't the full story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go on," Ginny prompted, impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"T.M. Riddle, the person the book originally belonged to, was
      Tom Marvolo Riddle, the man who became Lord Voldemort," Harry said,
      speaking quickly so he couldn't back out halfway through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny sat back in her chair, staring at Harry in disbelief. "And
      you never <em class="calibre7">told</em> me that, in all these years?" she nearly
      shouted at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry covered his face, half in shame, half so he wouldn't have
      to look at Ginny. "It wouldn't have helped you either way," he said
      at last from behind his palms. "I had the book locked away in a
      special box in my trunk. I never showed it to anyone — not even
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She doesn't know about it then?" Ginny asked. It made her happy
      in some way to think Harry had told her something she hadn't
      confided to his wife.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I showed it to her a few months ago," Harry admitted, and Ginny
      managed not to look disappointed at that news. "But I never told
      her where it came from — she never knew you originally had it. You
      never told anyone about it while you had it, did you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Ginny shook her head. "It was my most private secret. I
      wrote a lot of things into it, and it answered me! Did you know it
      could do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I found out, eventually," Harry said. "After I had it for a
      while I took it out of its box for a thorough examination. At one
      point I had a smudge of ink on a fingertip, and when I touched a
      page with that finger the ink vanished after a moment. I put a few
      drops of ink on the page and they vanished, too. I thought that
      explained why all the pages were blank, so I wrote something in it
      like, 'My name is Harry Potter-Evans-Verres' on the page. And it
      told me, 'I'm Tom Riddle, pleased to meet you,' or something like
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Tom Riddle was Vo— You-Know-Who," Ginny said, slowly. "What
      did he do, create a diary with his memories in it, like a
      portrait?" She was peering at Harry very curiously. "Come on,
      Harry, tell me! I want to know the truth!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked quite undecided on what to do. Only a handful of
      people in Wizarding Britain knew the truth about Tom Riddle. And
      he'd promised Dumbledore he would never tell anyone else about him
      and what he'd done. But Ginny had been <em class="calibre7">directly</em> affected
      by what Riddle had done — didn't she deserve to know the truth?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Riddle," Harry said, hesitating, "found a way to put a part of
      himself in the diary. It's more than a portrait, it's — more like a
      bit of him, his — his <em class="calibre7">soul</em>, if you want to call it
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you don't believe in souls," Ginny pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which doesn't negate what Riddle was able to do," Harry
      retorted. "It's very Dark magic — so Dark, in fact, that it was
      never even <em class="calibre7">mentioned</em> at Hogwarts once Dumbledore became
      Headmaster. I only found out about it in my sixth year, when I
      finally told him about the diary and he made me show it to him. He
      said we had to find a way into the Chamber of Secrets, to learn
      more about the book. It took nearly my entire sixth year to find
      out where the entrance was — ironically, it was in that same toilet
      I found you in during your first year. We went down there and found
      the skeleton of the Basilisk there, and the Headmaster had me use
      one of the fangs to stab the book. It spurted black ink-like
      liquid, almost like I'd stabbed a small animal in the heart, and we
      heard a screaming sound. And that was it. Dumbledore wanted the
      book but I told him I was keeping it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry." Monroe, who'd been listening to all of this, had a
      bemused expression on his face. "I have a question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shoot," Harry said, glad to be distracted for a moment from
      this heavy conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If this diary was a you-know-what," Monroe said, avoiding the
      word Harry hadn't used yet, "when do you think Riddle made it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is 'you-know-what'?" Ginny asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know when he made it," Harry replied, ignoring her question.
      "He told me while I was writing to him in the diary. He made it
      during his fifth year, probably sometime in 1943."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think he made it after he opened the Chamber of
      Secrets?" Monroe asked evenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suddenly looked interested. "Yes, he did! He tried to tell
      me some cock-and-bull story, about someone having opened the
      Chamber and students being attacked by a monster until a girl was
      killed, but it didn't quite ring true. Dumbledore told me that
      Hagrid was blamed for the murder of Abigail Myrtle back in 1943 and
      expelled from the school, confirming what Quirrell had told me
      earlier, during my first year, but neither of them mentioned
      anything about any other students being attacked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm remembering what you told me a few weeks ago, about what
      Quirrell told you about Voldemort and the Monster of Slytherin,"
      Monroe continued with his chain of logic. "You also said that
      Parseltongue was personal magic of some kind, not the ability of
      snakes to speak and understand a language."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry nodded, following where Monroe was going, and
      growing more and more excited by the moment. "Yeah! So the Basilisk
      <em class="calibre7">couldn't</em> have been intelligent on its own! I can't effing
      <em class="calibre7">believe</em> I didn't make that connection years ago!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What</em> connection?" Ginny asked, anxiously. Obviously
      both men were excited by something they had just figured out. "And
      you never told me what 'you-know-what' means!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, look," Harry turned to her, his gaze boring intently into
      hers. "You deserve to know this, because you had to deal with what
      Riddle's diary put you through, but you can't tell anyone what I'm
      about to tell you. Not Dean, not your brothers, <em class="calibre7">no one</em>.
      Can you do that, Ginny? And be honest," he warned her, "because
      I'll know if you're lying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny nodded slowly. "I won't tell anyone," she promised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, looking into her eyes, believed her. "Okay," he said, and
      took a deep breath. "Riddle's diary was a Horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A what?" Ginny shook her head blankly. "I don't know what that
      means."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's an object that's had a part of a wizard's soul put into
      it," Harry explained. "As long as that object exists, that wizard
      cannot be permanently killed. The Horcrux anchors the wizard to the
      material world. Even if you destroy his body, he remains stuck
      here. Eventually that part of him that's still here can interact
      with the world again, especially with the minds of other people.
      That's how Voldemort was able to take over Quirrell and have him
      come to Hogwarts to teach Defense, something Dumbledore never let
      Riddle himself do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that's how the diary was able to affect you," Monroe went
      on, saying what Harry didn't want to say himself. "Riddle's mind
      was in the diary, and it was able to manipulate it to reply to you
      and Harry when you wrote in it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny looked horrified. "So — so — that d-diary was trying to
      <em class="calibre7">take over</em> my body?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, not looking at her. "It almost did, too, before I
      took it from you. Riddle tried the same thing on me, but I was able
      to resist him. And I just realized —" Harry looked at Monroe, anger
      in his face. "I think Dumbledore may have figured out about the
      diary, and that's why he wanted it destroyed. He didn't want me
      learning about what Riddle knew —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded. Ginny was looking confused again. "Knew
      <em class="calibre7">what</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Knew that Horcruxes could pass on spells to another living
      mind," Harry said, both grimly and with excitement continuing to
      bubble within him. "I killed Riddle's diary without knowing that I
      could have gotten everything he learned from the Monster of
      Slytherin! Dammit!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But at least we have a way around the Interdict now," Monroe
      pointed out. "We just need to find another Horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shuddered involuntarily. "Why would anyone want to risk
      something like <em class="calibre7">that</em>?" she shouted. "You just told me those
      things can take over your mind!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They can if you don't suspect that's what happening," Harry
      clarified. "But I can resist them — a Horcrux won't be able to take
      <em class="calibre7">me</em> over. I just wish we could find one from Salazar
      Slytherin himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's not very likely," Monroe averred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry agreed, glumly. "It's unlikely anyone before
      Riddle created more than one of them, even Slytherin himself. And
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> probably didn't expect the Heir of Slytherin to destroy
      his Horcrux after learning all of its secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was silent for some time. Then, "But, still…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you thinking?" Monroe asked, wondering what had
      occurred to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't say anything right away. "I don't know," he finally
      admitted. "It seems like a long shot, but… something's making me
      think Slytherin was smarter than that. His Basilisk Horcrux might
      not have told Riddle <em class="calibre7">everything</em> that he did, only what he
      wanted him to know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think —" Ginny was staring at him with dread. "You think
      Slytherin <em class="calibre7">did</em> create more than one of
      these…Horcruxes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry nodded. "Or, I think it's worth checking out, at
      least, to see if I'm right about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how are we going to do <em class="calibre7">that</em>?" Monroe inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're going down into the Chamber of Secrets."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
