<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 18: Monroe's Head, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18: Monroe's Head</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Updated</em> 8/3/2012<br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre7">Last Updated</em> 4/15/2013</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry leapt from the seventh-floor windowsill the twin
      cylinders attached to his broom ignited. Both solid-fuel rockets,
      they pushed Harry forward as a Levitation Charm kicked in,
      balancing most of Harry's weight. The rockets only provided about
      40 pounds of thrust apiece, and only for 10 seconds, but that was
      enough to carry him over the nearest wall of the school
      grounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From that point the wards against flying objects were no longer
      in effect so, using the broom's innate flying ability, Harry tipped
      himself downward and spiraled to the ground. He landed not far from
      the road that led to Hogsmeade, but he had no intention of going
      there or letting anyone see that he was now outside the castle. He
      stuffed the broom back into his mokeskin pouch and Disapparated,
      heading toward London.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He appeared outside the TBC building, startling a passerby who
      almost walked into him. Harry excused himself and stepped aside,
      leaving the man looking around, wondering where he'd come from.
      Harry was frowning as he walked into the entrance to the building.
      He <em class="calibre7">should</em> have arrived in the small anteroom with the Floo
      connection up to his apartment. That meant someone, probably the
      Aurors who were searching his business, had established an
      Anti-Apparition Jinx on the inside of the building. And
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> meant they were probably expecting him or Hermione to
      show up, to find out what was going on. Well, he was here, but he
      wasn't going to show up until he was sure Malfoy and his goons
      could find no way into his private residence from his business
      offices. If he did, Harry knew, Malfoy would probably exercise the
      loophole that would let him check the residence if such an entryway
      was found. Just as if Harry were nothing more than a Death
      Eater.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry entered through the revolving doors. There were no Aurors
      waiting in the lobby for him, which meant that Malfoy put more
      importance on finding a secret entrance than he did on people
      entering the building. Harry began checking for wards and
      protections that the Aurors would have layered on top of his own
      spells. He found a ward that would notify the caster whenever
      someone entered the building; someone would have to come down and
      check to see who he was and where he was going. That was fine,
      because Harry wasn't going to be here when that someone
      arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A minute later one of the elevator doors opened and a young
      Auror dressed in Muggle business clothing stepped out and scanned
      the lobby. He walked almost to the entrance, then walked over to
      each of the doors leading down side corridors and cast a spell over
      each one. He then fished a small phone from his pocket (it was one
      from the Weasley electronic store) and spoke into it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one down here," he said, "and none of the side doors have
      been tampered with. Whoever came in must've gone back out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," a soft voice replied. "Come back up and continue your
      search, Hoskins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Acknowledged," Hoskins said, then dropped the phone in a pocket
      and re-entered the elevator, which had remained open. The elevator
      doors slid closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took off his Invisibility Cloak, smiling. He'd been right
      to wait until someone checked before he broke the magical lock on
      the door that led to the Floo connection to his private vestibule.
      If he knew Malfoy's logic, he would probably consider that Floo
      connection to be a business to residence link, since it was inside
      the TBC Building. The corridor, however, was not being rented by
      his business; it was part of the building floor space that was
      considered a common area, like the lobby. The room itself was
      little more than a crawlspace, magically extended to the size of a
      small room. No one but a wizard could see the door leading to that
      room, though Malfoy probably hadn't checked for that bit of magic,
      minor as it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a magic lock on the door leading to the corridor where
      his special room was, and Harry expected that the charm would alert
      the caster if it was broken. A quick detection spell told him that
      there were no extra spells on the door itself, or the doorway. That
      was good; it meant he could try a device he and Dean had been
      working on in his lab a few months ago, before he moved everything
      to his personal lab. Reaching into his mokeskin pouch, he pulled
      out a small cylinder about six inches long and a quarter-inch in
      diameter. He placed one end against the door and quietly said,
      "Beam me up, Scotty," then pushed the cylinder through the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the cylinder was about halfway through he stopped and said,
      "Energize!" and let go of the cylinder. The tip of the cylinder
      began to expand, becoming a door almost as large as the one he's
      pushed the rod through. Harry opened the door, seeing a short
      corridor with another door at the other end. He stepped through the
      doorway, closing the door behind him, then stepped out the other
      side, now on the other side of the warded door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed the door he'd just stepped through and said,
      "Energize" again. The door shrunk back to a small cylinder, and
      Harry pulled the cylinder out of the door and dropped it back into
      his pouch. Whistling the theme to "Star Trek," he strolled down the
      corridor to the door where his special Floo connection was located,
      a door marked "Building Maintenance" for anyone who could see the
      door and read what was written on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tapped the door with his wand, saying
      "<em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em>," then grasped the door handle, giving it a
      moment to recognize him. The door <em class="calibre7">clicked</em> and he pulled it
      open, stepping inside. Once inside, he pointed his wand at the
      doorknob and said, "<em class="calibre7">Colloportus</em> <em class="calibre7">Malfoy</em>!" to
      magically password lock the door. "Let's see Malfoy figure
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> password out," he muttered to himself, grinning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Taking a pinch of Floo powder from the mantle, Harry tossed it
      into the fireplace saying, "Potter-Evans-Verres private residence!"
      and stepped into the green flames. He immediately began spinning
      and a moment later stepped out of the fireplace in the antechamber
      to his and Hermione's apartment. From here he could make sure no
      one could get into his apartment until he reactivated this Floo
      connection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned the Floo damper to the off position, then took out
      his wand and cast the spell disconnecting this fireplace from any
      other connection. It took almost a quarter-minute to speak all of
      the words, but at the end he was rewarded with a dull green flash
      from the fireplace. It was completely unhooked from any other Floo
      now, and just another normal fireplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That left everyone unable to get inside his apartment, but also
      him stranded inside, unable to get out. Well, almost, Harry smiled
      to himself. He walked down the corridor from the anteroom to the
      apartment proper, meaning to continue on through to an outside
      window. But, staring at his comfortable chair, Harry felt a sudden
      weariness come over him, and he dropped into the chair, rubbing his
      face tiredly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This dancing around with Malfoy was getting tiresome. It had
      gone on for years, with Harry mostly a step ahead of Malfoy's plots
      but only <em class="calibre7">just</em> ahead — he never had any long stretches of
      time to deal with things <em class="calibre7">he</em> wanted to work on, like
      figuring out what the Source of Magic was and how it worked. He and
      Monroe had been <em class="calibre7">that close</em> to finding Slytherin's Horcrux,
      which would be a truly amazing discovery and could be a significant
      source of forgotten spells from over eight hundred years ago, the
      time of the Founders. Properly controlled and warded, Harry was
      sure they could keep Salazar Slytherin from possessing anyone. But
      surely the <em class="calibre7">Ministry</em> wouldn't see things that way, if they
      found out about it!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that probably included Hermione, Harry considered. Even
      though she was a lot more worldly now than she'd been when she
      first came to Hogwarts, she still thought of herself as Good and
      things like Horcruxes and Dark magic as Bad. And never the twain
      shall meet…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, slapped his knees and stood. He needed to put in
      an appearance at his business office, get that situation
      controlled, then get back with all haste to Hogwarts and Monroe,
      who for all Harry knew was still standing outside the Room of
      Requirement trying to get in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pushing that admittedly humorous situation from his mind, Harry
      made his way to the laundry room, a spacious, well-lighted room
      equipped with a top-of-the-line Muggle style washer and dryer.
      While there were several spells that magically cleaned and pressed
      clothing, they tended to feel better if they went through an actual
      wash-dry cycle. Harry stared into the window behind the dryer: a
      nice pastoral landscape was visible "outside" it, although window
      was actually inside the building, well away from any outside
      walls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This window, however, had an activation spell on it that allowed
      Harry to cause it to open, revealing a small walkway beyond that
      led to an actual outside window near the top of the TBC Building.
      This was his and Hermione's alternate escape path should someone
      manage to make it inside their apartment with numbers too great to
      fight and in the eventuality they couldn't get to their safe room.
      Harry closed the faux window behind him, locking it with the
      <em class="calibre7">Colloportus Malfoy</em> spell and password, and walked the
      forty or so yards to the real outside window of the building.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pulled the broom out of the pouch once again, then realized
      he might have grabbed a couple of refills for the rocket cylinders
      while he was at home. Well, it probably wouldn't matter — he
      couldn't use either the rockets or the broom itself to get back
      inside Hogwarts; the rockets were pants for precision flying. Harry
      charmed the window to open for ten seconds, then close again, and
      leaped off the ledge into empty air, hoping and expecting that
      Malfoy's Aurors hadn't cast any anti-flying spells around the
      building.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They hadn't. The broom flew straight and true, taking Harry to
      the top of the next building, where he would make his way down to
      the street and walk back over to the TBC Building, this time
      waiting for the Aurors to find him in the lobby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny Thomas watched, a carefully neutral expression on her
      face, as a dozen Aurors meticulously took apart her and Harry's
      office spaces. Another dozen Aurors were going over the rest of the
      office space that took up the majority of this floor of the TBC
      Building. They had been at it for nearly an hour now, and as
      expected there had been no incriminating discoveries. Did they not
      realize that Muggles worked in this space as well? Maybe they
      did—Malfoy had probably ordered checks for anything that might
      violate the secrecy laws as well as prohibitions against owning
      Dark books or artifacts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean was with another detail of Aurors that had found Harry's
      lab area — an area that was now mostly empty of any magical items;
      Harry had not wanted to take the chance they would show up one day
      (like today) and arbitrarily declare something he was working on
      Dark, forcing an investigation in front of the Wizengamot. It was
      unlikely that the Wizengamot would rule in Malfoy's favor unless
      the item was <em class="calibre7">clearly</em> Dark, but Harry hadn't wanted to give
      Malfoy the satisfaction of hauling him before the wizards' court in
      the first place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy himself was standing nearby, overseeing the search. His
      expression, too, was carefully neutral, but Ginny thought she saw
      his lips quirk every so often when one of his minions (as Harry
      called them), Crabbe or Goyle, would whisper something to him.
      Ginny pretended to ignore Malfoy, but watched him from a corner of
      her eye. She wished Harry would show up and take charge of this
      mess! She never liked dealing with Malfoy; he made her uneasy on
      some indescribable, visceral level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And</em>, there was someone she very much wanted to talk to,
      to tell him to stop fanning the flames between Harry and Malfoy,
      before he started a fire that no one could put out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dozen feet from Ginny Thomas, Draco stood watching his men
      systematically take apart Potter's business operation, piece by
      piece. At the rate they were progressing, the entire office space
      would be carefully checked for Dark magic within another two hours,
      and if there were any secret entrances to the Potters' private
      residence his men would find it. That, of course, was the real
      reason they were here — Draco didn't expect to find anything
      worthwhile in Potter's business offices — that would be pure
      sloppiness on Potter's part. His apartment, on the other hand, took
      up three whole floors of space in this building — that was plenty
      of room to hide loads of Dark materials in!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing in the lab so far," Vincent Crabbe reported, speaking
      so softly Draco barely heard him. "They think there's at least one
      more lab on this floor, they'll let us know when they find it. So
      far Thomas still isn't cooperating with them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He won't," Draco murmured in reply. "He's Potter's man through
      and through."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A young Auror — Hoskins, Draco finally recalled his name — came
      up to them. "Someone has entered the lobby again, sir. Shall I
      check it out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's why I had you cast the detection spell, Hoskins," Draco
      said, impatiently. "Yes, go check it out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe didn't quite hide a smirk as the young Auror ran off
      toward the elevators. "He hasn't quite got the hang of working for
      you yet, has he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hear I'm an acquired taste," Malfoy drawled, loud enough that
      Ginny heard him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yeah, you'd be an acquired taste</em>, Ginny thought.
      <em class="calibre7">Just like at Fortescue's if they started serving dung-flavored
      ice cream</em>. She'd seen the young Auror assigned to lobby duty
      run for the elevator, and her fingers were crossed that Harry was
      in the lobby. <em class="calibre7">Come on, come on</em>, she thought, anxious to be
      gone from this place. She had things to do and people of her own to
      ream out…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A couple of minutes later the elevator doors opened and Ginny
      breathed a sigh of relief — Harry had finally shown up. He had on
      his best outraged businessman face, striding up to Malfoy without
      so much as a glance at anyone else on the floor. "Malfoy, what the
      hell are you doing conducting a search of my business offices on
      the weekend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy gave his long-time adversary an obtuse look. "What, would
      you prefer I show up while you have an office full of Muggles and
      start Obliviating them before I cut them loose? If anything I was
      doing you a favor, Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry shook his head disgustedly, still playing the
      part. "You haven't found a damned thing, have you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We won't know until the final reports are in," Malfoy shrugged.
      "You might as well settle in for a bit, my teams are being
      <em class="calibre7">very</em> thorough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure they are." Harry walked away from Malfoy and up to
      Ginny. "Sorry this had to happen to you," he said in a low voice.
      "Is Dean here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny nodded. "He went with one of the teams to check out your
      labs. I haven't heard about any 'findings' so far. We you busy? I
      thought you'd be here before now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was out of town," Harry said. "Monroe and I took a trip up to
      Hogwarts today, to have a look at the Chamber of Secrets. We found
      some pretty interesting things going on down there with Slytherin's
      statue." Harry's eyes flicked over to see Malfoy glancing their
      way. "Sorry, tell you more later. I can take over here if you need
      to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do have some stuff to do before Dean comes home," Ginny
      agreed. "Oh." She seemed to suddenly realize something. "You were
      with Monroe? Where's he at now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's doing some — research for me," Harry said, vaguely. "He'll
      be okay for a while." <em class="calibre7">Assuming he ever got inside the Room of
      Requirement</em>, Harry added to himself. "You go on, take care of
      business. We'll be okay here. I'll send Dean home as soon as
      they're done with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Ginny said, and went to her desk and took her purse out
      of one of the drawers. "If you're sure you don't need me…" she
      said, giving Harry one last chance to have her stay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go," Harry said, taking her arm and walking with her to the
      elevator. The young Auror, Hoskins, who'd accompanied Harry back
      from the lobby, moved warily in front of the elevators as they
      approached.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm, I'm supposed to escort anyone leaving out of the
      building," he explained. "Head's orders."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Ginny. "I'll leave you in Mr. Hoskins' capable
      hands, then," he said, with a small bow. Ginny smiled at him, then
      her face went neutral as she followed the young Auror into the
      elevator.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the doors closed, Harry sighed and walked back to Malfoy.
      They both stood silently for some time before Harry softly
      muttered, "There are no secret entrances to my apartment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll just see about that," Malfoy muttered, equally
      softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Monroe turned away from the window Harry had just leapt
      from. There had been no scream and crash, so Harry's broom
      contraption must have worked. Hopefully he would be back soon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He faced the blank wall. His task now was to get inside the Room
      of Requirement — which he'd never heard of until a few minutes ago,
      and for which he had rather imprecise instructions on how to get
      inside; you had to <em class="calibre7">need</em> to get in, apparently. What had
      Harry said? <em class="calibre7">You think what you need, and walk back and forth in
      front of this wall three times doing that</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yeah, that was clear as mud, Monroe thought, unhappily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he had no choice but to try it. He certainly didn't want to
      be caught standing here if a student or — Merlin forbid — a prefect
      or <em class="calibre7">teacher</em> walked by. He'd have some explaining to do,
      especially since Harry was no longer around to run interference
      with Headmaster Longbottom. It would be difficult to explain why
      Harry left and he had stayed; he certainly wasn't going to tell
      Longbottom he was trying to get into the Room of Requirement!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Monroe said softly, looking at the wall. "Let's see what
      you've got for me." But what did he need? Originally he and Harry
      were coming here so Harry could tell him in private what he and the
      huge Slytherin statue had talked about — in Parseltongue — when
      they were in the Chamber of Secrets. Is that what he needed, then?
      And how could the <em class="calibre7">room</em> give him that if Harry wasn't even
      here?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, he had to give it a try. Monroe concentrated on the
      phrase, <em class="calibre7">I need to know what Harry and the Slytherin statue
      talked about, I need to know what Harry and the Slytherin statue
      talked about</em>. He repeated that phrase over and over in his
      head as he paced back and forth in front of the blank wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On his third pass, Monroe stopped suddenly as a low, grinding
      noise began to cause the floor to slightly vibrate. He spun around
      to face the blank wall once again, only to find it was no longer a
      blank wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A large, polished oak door had appeared in the wall, complete
      with brass hinges and a huge brass handle for a doorknob. Monroe
      stared at it in wonderment for some time before realizing he should
      clear out of the corridor. He grasped the handle and pulled the
      door open, stepping inside and pulling it closed behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room inside was not what he'd expected — but then, it was
      hard to know what he <em class="calibre7">should</em> expect, never having been here
      before. Dimly lit by low-burning braziers on the walls, Monroe
      could barely make out four figures standing in a semicircle before
      him. "Who's there?" he asked, hesitantly, wondering if he had
      walked in while someone else was in the room. But there was no
      reply, and as he continued slowly forward, Monroe saw that the four
      figures were actually four man-sized statues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The statue on his left was of a tall, stately woman in a long,
      flowing dress, with the image of a diadem on her head. Next to her
      was an even taller man, imposing looking, with shoulder-length hair
      and a full beard, his hands resting on the hilt of a long sword.
      The next statue Monroe recognized as Salazar Slytherin; he looked
      quite similar to the statue in the Chamber of Secrets except that
      this statue wore a pendant marked with a stylized "S" around its
      neck. The final statue was of a shorter, stout woman with a
      pleasant face, holding a cup in her hands. Looking back and forth
      at the four statues staring at him, Monroe murmured "What do we
      have here?" Why would the Room of Requirement show him this, a
      group of the four Founders?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A question," a soft voice suddenly spoke. Monroe turned to his
      left, where the voice had come from. There was no one behind him,
      but the woman with the diadem on her forehead seemed to be staring
      directly at him now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did someone speak?" Monroe said aloud, watching the statue
      carefully. If these statues were like the one of Slytherin in the
      Chamber, perhaps he had found something quite unusual here. There
      were dozens of talking portraits scattered throughout the castle;
      indeed, many wizarding families had at least one or two in their
      houses. He remembered seeing a portrait of Albus Dumbledore in
      Harry's apartment once, though the old man was sleeping at the
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But talking statues? He'd never seen anything like them
      anywhere, either in Wizarding Britain or in America when he was at
      the Salem Institute. "Can you speak?" he asked the statues
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can." The statue of the tall, imposing man spoke, though
      there was no movement of its mouth. "We are…the Founders of
      Hogwarts," the voice went on, slowly.
      "Ravenclaw…Hufflepuff…Slytherin… and Gryffindor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I only needed to speak to Slytherin," Monroe told the
      voice. He wasn't sure if he was hearing the voice in his ears or
      his head. "Why are all four of you here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are the Founders," the voice rumbled, as if that should
      answer the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe decided to hit the nail on the head right off. "Are you
      Horcruxes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are the Founders," Gryffindor's voice said again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are not Horcruxes," the stately woman's voice spoke right
      after Gryffindor. "We are the spirits of the Founders, preserved
      forever in the very stones of the castle we built."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want to nitpick," Monroe said, diffidently. "But that
      could be considered the definition of a Horcrux. It is a fragment
      of a wizard's soul stored in an object, animate or inanimate, to
      anchor that soul to this existence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That definition is imprecise and incomplete," Ravenclaw's voice
      spoke, giving Monroe the impression she was being imperious. The
      Greek wizard who created the spell believed it could only be
      accomplished by murder, a crime so heinous that it would cleave a
      soul asunder. We did no murder when we preserved ourselves
      thus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When did you do this?" Monroe asked, feeling a sense of
      excitement beginning to build inside him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A new voice spoke, a woman's voice, warm and caring. "The castle
      was barely raised when we chose to make ourselves part of it
      forever, to watch over the children and those charged with their
      education.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have seen much in the time that has passed since then,"
      Slytherin's voice spoke at last, a thin, hollow voice, but at least
      it spoke in English rather than Parseltongue, Monroe thought,
      relieved. "Much has changed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed it has," Monroe agreed. "Much has been learned since
      those days, and much has been lost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aye," Ravenclaw's voice agreed. "There is much that is no
      longer taught to our students, much they must discover on their own
      in the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Monroe murmured. "But there are some things we can no
      longer learn — things that have been lost to the Interdict of
      Merlin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin," Slytherin's thin, hollow voice repeated. "He was a
      very bright boy, as I recall. A bit taken with the Muggles, perhaps
      more so than necessary, considering their place in our world, but
      he was in my House. What is this 'Interdict' you speak of?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is a spell he cast just before his death," Monroe answered.
      "It prevents powerful spells from being learned by any wizard
      except directly from another wizard. All the ancient powerful
      spells of your time can no longer be learned because of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would any wizard do such a thing?" Ravenclaw's voice
      betrayed the shock her living mind might have felt, if she were
      still alive. "Wisdom is wizardkind's greatest treasure and its
      greatest gift!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin may have felt caution was more important," Monroe said.
      "He thought that wizards would someday destroy the world as their
      magic became more and more powerful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We had hoped other schools like ours would be established one
      day by our students," the voice of Hufflepuff said, wistfully. "Has
      that been accomplished?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are other schools," Monroe replied. "A few in Europe,
      three in a new land called the Americas, and several more in the
      East. But there are none as great as Hogwarts," he added. "You can
      thank the Interdict for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unacceptable," Gryffindor growled. "We built Hogwarts as a
      beacon of light in the darkness — it should not be the best example
      of our craft, but the first one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree," Monroe said. "Perhaps the Founders can help me begin
      that dream anew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What can we do?" Slytherin rasped. "We are but shadows within
      the walls of the castle we built!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You may be able to help more than you know, if you remember the
      spells that helped you raise Hogwarts, for example," Monroe
      answered. "You can teach them to me, and I can teach them to the
      students of Hogwarts. From there we can spread them across the
      world, to other wizards who have the same dream you had for your
      school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence for a time. Then, "We can," the voice of
      Ravenclaw spoke. "But there is much for only one man to learn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I hope to have some help show up shortly," Monroe said.
      "Between the two of us we should be able to remember quite a
      bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once Ginny was outside the wards the Aurors had placed in the
      TBC Building she Apparated to northwest London, to an older
      neighborhood she visited infrequently these days. She arrived on
      the edge of an unkempt square, unnoticed by the inhabitants of the
      neighborhood, and she stood still for several moments, seeming to
      stare not so much at the buildings in her line of sight as
      <em class="calibre7">between</em> them. Which indeed she was, as she was looking at
      a building that almost no one living today could see. She reached
      up and drew the shawl draped over her shoulders up over her head,
      then threw the bottom edge of it across her lower face. No use
      giving anyone peering out of their windows a chance to see who she
      was. That, and weather was cold this evening, with an icy breeze
      nipping at her nose and ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She walked across the road surrounding the square and across the
      pavement in front of a row of shabby-looking houses. If anyone had
      been looking out of their windows just then, they would have seen a
      shawl-draped woman walking across the lawn between two houses, then
      seem to disappear between them, which might have appeared odd to
      some, though most people would shrug and dismiss the idea from
      their minds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Ginny had not walked between the houses; she was now on the
      front steps of number four, Grimmauld Place, and she reached up and
      tapped the doorknocker, a bronze lion's head, three times. After
      several seconds of silence, the door creaked slowly open. A small
      house-elf stared up smilingly at her. "Welcome, Miss Ginny," Jumpy
      said to her, bowing deeply. "You are here to see Master Ron and
      Mistress Luna, you are?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny nodded, "Yes," she said, a bit shortly. She was here to
      see Ron, mostly, but there was no use in upsetting Luna if she
      didn't have to. "May I come in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, of course," the elf stepped back, allowing her entry
      to the Weasleys' home. Not much had changed in the long hallway of
      this old home. Portraits of the Weasley family hung along the walls
      and the golden chandelier still hung from the ceiling, casting its
      feeble light down the hall. At the back of the ground floor was the
      inaptly named "front," or living room, and Jumpy padded off to
      announce her arrival. Ginny could hear him muttering her name to
      whoever was in the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later Luna appeared, smiling brightly as she saw Ginny.
      "Hello!" she said happily. "I'm so happy to see you again, Ginny.
      Why don't you come into the parlor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Luna." Ginny was smiling as well in spite of her
      unpleasant mood. There was no reason to take out her anger against
      Ron on Luna, though, so she followed her sister-in-law into the
      living room and sat down in the chair Luna offered to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jumpy, would you bring us some tea, please?" Luna asked the
      young house-elf waiting in the doorway. "I'm sure Ginny would like
      something while she's here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Mistress," Jumpy bowed deeply again and disappeared down
      the basement steps where the kitchen was located.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How have you been?" Luna asked Ginny as they waited. "I haven't
      seen you for some time now at the shop."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been busy," Ginny said, tiredly. "I just came from work —
      Malfoy got a wild hair up his arse and decided to search Harry's
      business because of suspected Dark items being held there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, dear," Luna looked concerned. "I hope there's nothing to
      find there!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's not," Ginny said, smiling. Luna always took such things
      so seriously. "Malfoy's just harassing Harry, as usual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that's too bad," Luna said, commiserating with her. "I like
      it when Harry visits the shop — he always seems to liven things up
      around there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He does," Ginny agreed, emphatically. Her brothers still talked
      about Harry and Monroe's duel — and of course Monroe's arrival in
      Wizarding London had shaken up more than just the Weasleys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But her reason for visiting was to set things straight with Ron,
      not to exchange banalities with Luna. She was tired of him going to
      Malfoy with the things she talked about with him. Even if the
      letters were anonymous (and they undoubtedly were) she could tell
      where Malfoy was getting his information from. She hoped Ron would
      get home soon so she could get this over with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jumpy returned, laboriously carrying a tea set over his head,
      with curls of steam rising from the teapot. He set it down on a
      table in front of Luna and Ginny, and began to pick up the tea
      kettle when Luna stopped him. "I'll take care of it, Jumpy," she
      said, pleasantly. "Will you go down and make sure supper will be
      ready when Ron gets home?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Mistress," Jumpy nodded obediently, then nodded to Ginny
      and scuttled off to the basement again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I like it when Jumpy calls me 'Mistress,'" Luna said
      conversationally as she poured the tea into her and Ginny's cups.
      "It sounds so formal and elegant, doesn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was nice of Harry to buy this house for our family," Ginny
      replied, though she didn't care too much for the old place itself,
      or that Luna seemed to enjoy living here. "I think Ron was the only
      one of us…brave enough to live here." She might have said
      <em class="calibre7">stupid enough</em> but that wouldn't have been appropriate in
      front of Luna; her mother Molly had never been sure they'd gotten
      all the pests out of this old, decrepit building. All the buildings
      in this square seemed odd for one reason or another — they had
      never figured out why there was no number twelve, for example.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, did I never tell you?" Luna looked surprised (which she
      almost always did anyway, with her protuberant eyes) "After Ron and
      I got married I insisted that we live here. He had told me about
      all the fascinating creatures your family had found here when Harry
      bought the house for his family, and I wanted to write a book on
      the types of creatures one might find in old houses like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't know that!" Ginny said, surprised. Luna handed her a
      cup of tea with the amount of sugar and cream that Ginny liked.
      "Thank you," she said, waiting for Luna to pick up her own cup
      before sipping from hers. "Mmm, very nice," Ginny lifted the cup
      toward Luna, who smiled agreeably. "So have you been working on
      that book, then?" she asked, curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, off and on," Luna said, vaguely. "It's difficult to find
      the time while I'm working at the shop and taking care of Ron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny's expression darkened. "Maybe you should make time for
      yourself, Luna. Ron can fend for himself if he needs to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Luna agreed. "But I've always had someone to take care
      of, it feels so natural to me. Daddy was lost when Mummy died; I
      began helping him with the <em class="calibre7">Quibbler</em> by writing articles
      for him from time to time, until I began going to Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remember hearing about some of them," Ginny agreed, sipping
      at her tea. It was hard to keep her foul mood intact while she was
      around Luna, but if Ron didn't show up soon all of her anger at him
      was going to dissipate before she could ream him out properly for
      his transgressions. "Do you know when Ron's going to be home, by
      the way?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He didn't say, exactly," Luna said, unconcerned. "What are you
      upset with him about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny blinked, a bit surprised at the question. Luna always did
      have a penchant for asking blunt questions in a completely
      straightforward, innocent way. "I — didn't say I was upset with
      him, did I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Luna replied, "but when you come over you're usually
      upset, either with Dean, Ron, or one of your other brothers, and
      since you haven't begun complaining about him and asked about him
      just now, it seems like he's the one you're upset with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Ginny said, setting down her tea. "Well, I'd rather
      discuss it with him directly, Luna, but I am upset with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's about Harry, isn't it?" Luna asked, then picked up a small
      tray from the tea tray. "Scone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny silently accepted a scone from the tray offered her,
      wondering how much Ron had told her of their conversations. Before
      she could ask, however, Luna spoke. "It's too bad that Ron and
      Harry don't get on as well as they should. I suppose that's because
      Harry married Ron's first love."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did he tell you that?" Ginny demanded, becoming more angry at
      Ron than ever now. Why would he tell his wife something like
      that?!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no," Luna shook her long blond locks. "Ron loves me very
      much, he would never say something like that to me. But it's as
      plain as the nose on his face how he feels about Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't something Ginny was going to deny. But her real
      interest was — "So, what has he told you about Harry lately?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna chuckled. "Oh, he's said that Harry and his friend James
      Monroe are planning to break the Interdict of Merlin, so that all
      the ancient spells can be learned again, and how that could cause a
      magical World War that will destroy everything, just like Merlin
      predicted eight hundred years ago. He's said that they want to
      bring about something called a Magical Sanctuary —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's called the Magical <em class="calibre7">Singulariy</em>," Ginny put in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes, that then," Luna said. "Ron said that if that happened
      we'd all be sucked into the Source of Magic, whatever that is, and
      disappear. He's also said Harry plans to prove that souls don't
      exist, so that Horcruxes can't really exist, either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron's told you about <em class="calibre7">Horcruxes</em>?" Ginny asked,
      breathlessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no, of course not. We learned all about them when I was in
      Ravenclaw," Luna replied. "We just never told Professor Flitwick or
      any of the other teachers what we knew about them — Flitwick always
      looked <em class="calibre7">very</em> nervous whenever one of the upper years would
      make an oblique reference to them." Ginny smiled at that, at the
      same time wondering how many students in the other Houses knew.
      Harry had said Dumbledore thought it was a deep, dark secret that
      very few knew of, and no one at Hogwarts was supposed to know, not
      even the other teachers. The old headmaster might have been quite
      surprised to learn just how many Ravenclaws knew about them. "Of
      course we never said anything to the other houses — the Slytherins
      would have immediately begun plotting to make their own, and the
      Gryffindors and Hufflepuffs would always have been trying to find
      them and destroy them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess that's true," Ginny admitted. "So… did Ron ever tell
      anyone else about what he thought Harry was doing? <em class="calibre7">Not</em>,"
      she hastened to add, "that I think he <em class="calibre7">was</em> doing those
      things, but that Ron thought so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna laughed softly. "Ron can be such a hot-head…well, I'm sure
      you already know that, of course, but he knows how well-liked Harry
      is in the Wizarding community — the Boy-Who-Made-Good, I suppose we
      could call him now, with his big ivory tower and employing so many
      people, both Muggle and wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry has enemies, too," Ginny pointed out. "Malfoy being the
      biggest one at the moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna nodded. "And there are probably wizards who dislike him as
      well, for whatever reasons they think are valid. Ron tells me there
      are shopkeepers in Diagon Alley who resent him for keeping the
      rents there so high. I'm not sure why they think that, though,
      since the Ministry controls rental rates in Diagon Alley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm, that's right," Ginny agreed, remembering that now. "I'd
      forgotten about that. But has Ron been telling other people about
      these things, or writing them down?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think the only time I see Ron with a quill in his hand is
      when he's writing down his hours at the shop," Luna smiled. "Ron's
      never been much for writing down things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you don't think he's been writing to the Ministry about what
      Harry and Monroe have been doing?" Ginny pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Ministry?" Luna's already protuberant eyes grew even wider.
      "Oh dear me, no — he <em class="calibre7">hates</em> Draco Malfoy, even more than he
      ever disliked Harry. I suppose the poor dear is just frustrated
      that Harry is so much more successful than he is." Luna took her
      last sip of tea, then swirled her cup and poured the last bit of
      tea into her saucer. She glanced into the cup, reading the leaves.
      "My immediate future looks good," she said, dreamily, "I'm not too
      sure how things will go after that." She reached out for Ginny's
      cup. "Would you like me to read your fortune?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shook her head, setting her cup down only half-finished.
      "I think I should be going — Dean will be home in a little while, I
      hope, and I should get ready for him, he'll be tired after spending
      the last few hours watching Malfoy's men search our offices."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very thoughtful of you, dear," Luna reached over and patted
      Ginny on the arm. "I'll tell Ron you visited, he always likes it
      when you visit, even if you yell at him." Both women stood and Luna
      walked with Ginny down the hallway to the front door. "Nice to see
      you again, dear," she said, giving Ginny a small hug. "Why don't
      you come by sometime when you don't feel like yelling at Ron. We
      can have dinner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds nice," Ginny smiled, then threw her shawl over her
      head once again and walked down the steps to the front walk. From
      there she Apparated directly to the front door of her apartment
      building, went inside and walked up to her apartment and let
      herself in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dean?" she called as she entered. There was no reply. She took
      her phone out of her purse, checking for any texts or voice
      messages he might have left her. Nothing there, either. She would
      have to hurry if she wanted everything ready for when he
      returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny walked into their bedroom and up to the small writing desk
      she kept in there for writing family and friends. She sat down at
      the desk, closed her eyes and seemed to meditate for several
      seconds. An expression of cold, vacant detachment came over her
      features, and she took out her wand, pointing it at a small drawer
      in the desk. The drawer slid halfway open, and a piece of parchment
      stationery and a Quotes Quill from Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, one
      that Ron had enchanted and had never been used, floated out of the
      drawer, coming to rest on the desk in front of her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny began speaking in a low, inflectionless voice, and the
      quill jumped up on its tip and began to write.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">To Head Auror Malfoy,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Once again I feel I must let you know of Harry Potter's
      activities, activities that are undermining the safety of Wizarding
      Britain.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The details are sparse, but Potter has been to Hogwarts to
      visit the Chamber of Secrets, with the permission of Headmaster
      Longbottom. He may have discovered something about the statue of
      Salazar Slytherin that ties in with his efforts to undermine the
      rule of the Ministry and Wizengamot. As Head Auror, it is your duty
      to stop him from destroying our government and our way of life. As
      a concerned citizen, I urge you with all speed to prevent him from
      doing this.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny left the letter unsigned, as usual. A parchment envelope
      floated out of a slot and dropped to the desk next to the letter.
      Ginny spoke Malfoy's name as the address and the letter folded and
      inserted itself into the envelope. Ginny looked at the window and
      it slid open of its own accord, just as an owl from the London
      Owl-Post office flew in the window, landing on the desk and hooting
      at her impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The letter lifted in the air and slid into the mail pouch
      attached to the owl's leg. A Sickle floated out of another drawer
      in the desk and disappeared into the coin pouch on the owl's other
      leg, and it spread its wings and immediately flew out of the
      window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her expression still vacant, Ginny undressed and put on her
      nightgown, then slipped into bed and closed her eyes.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
