<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 20: A Conversation with the Founders, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20: A Conversation with the Founders Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Updated</em> 9/15/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped into the Room of Requirement, staring at the four
      statues of the Founders that faced him in a semicircle as he moved
      to the center of the room. He recognized each of them in turn: the
      tall, elegant figure of Rowena Ravenclaw; the broad, imposing
      Godric Gryffindor; the brooding Salazar Slytherin and the friendly,
      matronly Helga Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a table in front of the four statues, with several
      books lying open on it. Glancing down at them, Harry read only
      nonsense words. The spells in this book were protected by the
      Interdict of Merlin. Harry glanced back at Monroe, who had conjured
      another chair near the door and sat down again, content to let
      Harry talk to the Founders on his own, then looked at the four
      statues again. "You are the Founders, I take it," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are the Founders," the voice of Rowena Ravenclaw answered.
      "You are James Monroe's friend Harry Potter. We remember you from
      the days you attended Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do?" Harry smiled in surprise. "I'm sorry I didn't have a
      chance to meet you then. I didn't realize I made that much of an
      impression here at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your humility does not seem genuine," another woman's voice,
      Helga Hufflepuff, spoke. "You achieved many great successes while
      within our walls. We would be unsurprised to learn you achieved
      much success outside them as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have," Harry agreed. "You're right, and I apologize for my
      disingenuousness. There are things I have failed to achieve,
      however, which is what brings me here to talk with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Interdict of Merlin," a thin, hollow voice spoke, and Harry
      recognized it as Salazar Slytherin. "Your friend Monroe has spoken
      to us of it. Merlin was our student, yet he dared presume himself
      to be greater than us!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He <em class="calibre7">was</em> greater," Harry argued. "He united the wizards
      in a common cause, bringing them together in order that they might
      guide and govern themselves by law rather than by rule of might.
      Your greatest contribution to wizardkind, beyond this castle, was
      to divide students against one another by sorting them into four
      Houses named after yourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was not our intention!" the voice of Godric Gryffindor
      spoke forcefully. "We wished students to benefit from their natural
      strengths, and that is best encouraged by like minds!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet much knowledge has been lost over the years," Harry
      pointed out. "Even between those of 'like minds,' because of the
      Interdict."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We wish to remedy that," the voice of Ravenclaw answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do as well," Harry concurred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have been reading spells from these books that your friend
      Monroe has been showing us," Helga Hufflepuff said. "He will be
      able to teach them to others, and they will be able to teach them
      as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That will help," Harry agreed. "But it would be better if we
      found a way to break the Interdict altogether. Then magical
      knowledge could not fall into obscurity because no living person
      knows a spell by heart — spells could be relearned from books,
      which is what books were meant to be used for in the first
      place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Ministry probably won't like that," Monroe spoke from
      behind Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry replied over his shoulder. "That didn't stop you from
      learning Indicted-protected spells from the Founders, did it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it didn't," Monroe agreed. "But then, I'm a knowledge
      junkie."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So am I," Harry turned back to the Founders. "Can you help me
      break the Interdict?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We do not know the spell Merlin used," Ravenclaw answered. "And
      we cannot cast spells ourselves; our minds are preserved within
      these walls, but magic is created by living beings, not
      stones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand that," Harry said. He didn't think it was true,
      but he wasn't going to argue the point. "But you can still help me
      and James think through what the Interdict must do to prevent
      written spells from being comprehended unless they have passed from
      one mind to another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can try," Ravenclaw answered, and the voices of the other
      statues murmured their assent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry picked up a book. "Then perhaps we should return to these
      spells," he said. "Maybe they will show us a way to defeat the
      Interdict."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, well," Fred Weasley said scornfully. "Look what the
      Kneazle dragged in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy walked up to where Weasley was seated, in front of
      the main counter at Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes. He'd been bound
      securely to the chair, his arms pinned to his sides with heavy
      ropes and his wand confiscated, but he still wore a sneer of
      disdain when he saw the Head Auror. They would see how long that
      sneer would last, Draco thought, when his Aurors began questioning
      him about the letters that had been coming into their offices.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have you done with my brothers?" Fred demanded, looking up
      at the Head Auror. Malfoy ignored the question and nodded to
      Vincent Crabbe, who then stepped in front of Weasley, blocking his
      view of Maloy</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know why we're here," Crabbe said in his surprisingly soft
      voice, not asking a question but stating it as a fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No clue," Fred replied. "Unless you can't sleep. For that I can
      recommend a good sleeping potion, one that will give you very
      interesting dreams. And where are my brothers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your brothers are being questioned separately," Crabbe
      answered. "As are your wives. And I think you do know why we're
      here — it's about those letters to the Ministry written with a
      Weasley-charmed quill," he continued. "They've given us some pretty
      interesting information on what Harry Potter's been doing for the
      past few months. It looks like your brother Ron's been sending them
      to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pffft," Fred snorted. "Ron's no friend of Harry's but he'd
      never rat him out, even if whatever's in those letters happened to
      be true, which I doubt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe smiled. "So you know what's in those letters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Fred shook his head. "But I know Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's what we're hoping," Crabbe said. He pulled a small
      vial from his robe. "Can you guess what this is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred's eyes narrowed. "Veritaserum," he muttered. "But you can't
      give me that without my permission unless I'm charged with a
      crime." He tried to look around Crabbe. "Are you charging me with a
      crime, Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at the moment," Malfoy replied casually. "But if you don't
      agree to take the Veritaserum then we'll charge you with
      obstruction of justice, begin a full-scale investigation into you
      and your family's activities, and give you the Veritaserum
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nicely played," Fred said sarcastically. "I suppose I should
      remind you at this point of the Mental Privacy Act of 2012." It was
      the same law Ginny had referred to although she had used the legal
      description rather than the popular name. "If you can't charge me
      with anything because of what I say under Veritaserum, it's illegal
      for you to keep any records of our conversation beyond your own
      memories."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm acquainted with the law," Malfoy said evenly. Pretty much
      everyone being questioned under Veritaserum referred to it these
      days. "But you'd better hope we find out you're <em class="calibre7">squeaky
      clean</em> when we start questioning you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bring it on, then," Fred said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy gestured at Crabbe to continue. The big man took out his
      wand and conjured a glass filled with water, then uncorked the vial
      and let three drops of the liquid inside fall into the glass. He
      held the glass up to Weasley's lips, being careful not to spill
      any. "Let me know when he's ready," the big Auror said to his
      assistant, then stepped back to wait for the potion to reach full
      effectiveness. He glanced back at Malfoy, who nodded and left to
      check on the other interrogations going on. Once they had completed
      the questioning, Malfoy would gather his men to compare the
      results. And from there, he hoped, he would have enough evidence to
      bring in Potter for trying to break the Interdict, a change to the
      balance of wizarding power that could have far-reaching
      implications, not just in Britain, but around the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't know anything about letters sent to the Ministry,"
      Luna Weasley replied, with a vaguely pleasant smile at the Auror
      questioning her. "I wouldn't think my husband would, either. He
      doesn't like Harry very much, but I can't imagine Ron wanting to
      inform on him to the Ministry; if there was anything to expose I
      would have known and suggested my father interview him for <em class="calibre7">The
      Quibbler</em>. My father appreciates my insights in these matters,
      you see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Willem Hoskins stared at the woman bound to the chair in
      the back office of Weasleys' Wireless Wonderland, where they had
      taken the three women for separate questioning. He'd been warned
      that she could a bit — off. That warning was proving to be
      true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, then," Hoskins said, trying to make himself sound
      stern and authoritative. "We're going to question you under
      Veritaserum —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre7">that</em> should be interesting," Luna smiled brightly.
      "I've never tried that before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you understand that if you refuse we will charge you with
      obstruction of justice and —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why would I refuse?" Luna asked, her already protuberant
      eyes growing even larger in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, you might be lying?" Hoskins suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I suppose that is possible, but I have no reason to lie,"
      Luna said. "You know, it would be fun to try an experiment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An <em class="calibre7">experiment</em>?" Hoskins said, confused. "What kind of
      experiment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You ask me the questions you were going to ask before giving me
      the Veritaserum," Luna suggested, "and then ask them again
      afterwards, and we'll see if my answers change."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hoskins blinked in utter confusion. That might actually be
      interesting in some ways —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The junior Auror assisting in this interview gave him a
      disapproving look. "Hoskins, are you really thinking of doing
      that?! I want to go home and get some sleep, not conduct some
      experiment that a potential criminal wants us to do!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd like to get some sleep, too," Luna said matter-of-factly.
      "But it looks like the Ministry had different plans for all of
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's right about that, Daniels," Hoskins said to his
      partner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just give her the Verita and let's get on with this," Daniels,
      though still a junior Auror, was Hoskins' senior at the Ministry by
      about 5 minutes (they'd both graduated from the same Auror Training
      class) growled. Hoskins nodded and conjured a cup with water in it,
      then added the three drops of the colorless, odorless potion and
      held it to the woman's lips to drink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This isn't going to do you any good," Verity Weasley said, as
      the Auror removed the glass from her lips. "I don't know a damn
      thing about any letters about Harry Potter being sent to the
      Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you shouldn't be arguing with us about answering these
      questions," the Auror, a ten-year veteran of the Auror Department,
      snapped back at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't be arguing if it wasn't <em class="calibre7">three in the bloody
      morning</em>!" Verity shouted. "You might have come by or owled us
      to report in for questioning, not break down our doors in the
      middle of the night and take us prisoner!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not a prisoner," Elric Powell the Auror said calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Verity looked around at the cords binding her to the chair.
      "This may be your idea of a fashion statement but it's pretty
      damned uncomfortable, if you ask me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have our reasons," the other Auror, a younger but equally
      no-nonsense fellow who regarded Verity with suspicion mixed with a
      vague feeling of attraction — her nightgown was quite revealing up
      top, and her housecoat barely covered her ample bosoms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can guess," Verity snapped. "We're Weasleys, so you
      automatically suspect us!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which was in fact true to a degree, but neither Auror was going
      to confirm that aloud. "Just calm down," Powell told her. "When the
      Veritaserum kicks in we'll ask our questions and that'll be that.
      Do you want to argue with us or do you want to get this over
      with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Verity said, bitterly. "Have at it, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"State your name," the Auror said to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ronald Bilius Weasley," Ron said, dully. The Veritaserum had
      sapped away any inclination he might have to withhold any relevant
      information to questions asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory Goyle watched Ron Weasley for several moments,
      contemplating his own presence here. He'd expected Mr. Malfoy to
      take this one; the evidence clearly pointed toward him. Goyle had
      been surprised when he found his name in the space opposite Ron
      Weasley as the lead interrogator. He'd pointed this out to Crabbe,
      and from what Vincent told him before they left to do these
      interviews, the Head Auror didn't think Ron Weasley was the only
      person responsible for those letters to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you write letters to Head Auror Malfoy with information
      about his activities over the past few months?" Goyle asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I — yes," Ron answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you obtain that information?" Goyle asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron blinked. "I — I hear things. People talk. You know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What people?" Goyle persisted. "Be specific."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, my brothers and their wives talk about Potter all the
      time," Ron said, frowning. "They think he's perfect, but he's not
      really, he's just like anyone else. They don't think he'd steal
      someone's girlfriend, but he would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle's lips set in a thin line, an almost-smile. It was known
      that Weasley had a bit of a crush on Hermione Granger, back in the
      day. They had even dated for a while during seventh year, after she
      and Potter had some kind of falling out. There were rumors about
      her and Mr. Malfoy, too, but nobody mentioned them anymore, at
      least not where Draco might have ears present.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you talk to anyone else about Potter?" Goyle asked. "Anyone
      at all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My sister and I discuss him over lunch sometimes," Ron said.
      "But she thinks he's perfect, too — she's always defending
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you remember who told you he was trying to break the
      Interdict of Merlin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Weasley remained silent, looking confused. Goyle repeated the
      question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I — don't remember," Ron said at last.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When was the last time you saw your sister?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yesterday, at lunch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did she say anything to you about Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't remember."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was there anyone sitting near you that you might have
      overheard?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't think so. We were sitting outside a café near our
      shops, just off Diagon Alley proper. We were the only ones sitting
      outside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was a bit frustrating, Goyle thought. "So what do you
      remember your sister saying about Potter?" Sometimes, even with
      Verita, you had to ask a question more than once before any
      information bubbled up in the subject's head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't remember," Ron said again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you remember writing the letters to Mr. Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you or don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I remember. I definitely, definitely remember doing
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle rubbed the side of his face. A very clear memory
      surrounded by vague ones was sometimes an indication that a False
      Memory Charm had been used on the subject multiple times. Some
      people didn't retain false memories layered one on top of another
      very well. "Check him for False Memory Charms," he said to the
      younger Auror with him, Erickson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ericson nodded and waved his wand over Weasley's head several
      times. He looked up at Goyle, frowning. "If he was charmed it was
      done very well, the detection spells are inconclusive, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ergh," Goyle grunted. Ericson was young but he'd received an
      Outstanding for his Charms N.E.W.T. at Hogwarts and his detection
      spells were top notch. That result was not what he wanted to hear.
      They would have to wait and see what the other Weasley
      interrogations turned up, especially Ginny's. Ministry intel on her
      and Ron Weasley showed they talked relatively often, at least once
      a week for an hour or more. What didn't make sense was why Ginny
      Thomas would try to pin those letters on her brother, if she was
      the one responsible. The Weasleys were supposed to be a tight-knit
      family; something like this was atypical for them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But his was not to reason why, Goyle knew. He just followed the
      boss's orders. He took out his wPhone and ran the voice-to-text
      app. "Interrogation of R. Weasley complete. Please advise further
      orders." He selected Mr. Malfoy's contact and sent the message. It
      was nearly a minute before there was a response from Draco's phone,
      sent to everyone out on the mission.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">All lead interrog Aurors report to Ministry HQ at 0400
      for debriefing. Junior Aurors remain with subjects.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got that?" Goyle asked Ericson, who nodded glumly. "Don't
      worry, it shouldn't take long to sort things out," he told the
      younger Auror, who shrugged noncommittally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle checked the time on his phone: 3:38 a.m. That gave him
      plenty of time to get back to the Ministry and get his
      interrogation report written for the meeting, in case Mr. Malfoy
      wanted notes. Which he would, because if he decided to bring
      someone in based on the results of the interrogation, they'd be
      going out yet again before they were finished for the night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At 3:38 a.m. on Sunday morning the Auror Department offices were
      dark and empty, as was normally the case on early weekend mornings.
      Malfoy ran a tight ship, but not so tight that his men had to work
      through the weekends to get their assignments done. If he worked,
      they worked; but if he was home enjoying time with his wife and
      their families, his men did too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At 3:39 a.m. the Auror Department experienced a sudden influx of
      personnel. Nearly a dozen men were appearing, one right after
      another, and moving quickly to their individual offices to prepare
      their reports for the meeting in less than 20 minutes. Everyone
      knew the Head Auror would expect nothing less than complete
      preparedness when it came time for their reports.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy had the eight senior Aurors on the interrogation team
      gather in the conference room for the debriefing. The men all
      looked tired, he noted; there was usually idle banter before
      meetings but this time the men were scanning the notes they'd made
      or sipping hastily-made tea from the department's snack area.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Malfoy was tired as well. He hadn't participated directly in the
      interrogations; if he brought someone in because of these
      questionings he didn't want charges of conflict of interest leveled
      against him. It was likely to happen anyway; the Weasleys filed
      complaints against the Auror Department almost perfunctorily
      whenever they were questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At 4:02 a.m. Malfoy called the debriefing to order. "I know it's
      late," he said, by way of an apology, the only one everyone there
      knew they'd hear from him. "I want to see if we have anything we
      can take action on before we wrap things up for the night. Mr.
      Crabbe, if you would give us your summary of the interviews…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The big Auror, whom Malfoy had chosen to gather and correlate
      the reports, put down his cup of tea (which looked quite miniscule
      in his large hands) and stood. "Just to review our activities over
      the past few hours," he said, handing out copies of his summary to
      the others, "I interviewed Fred Weasley, Kevin Whitby interviewed
      George Wealsey, and Greg Goyle interviewed Ron. As for their wives,
      Elric Powell interviewed Verity Weasley, Doran Merryweather
      interviewed Angelina Weasley, and Willem Hoskins interviewed Luna
      Weasley. John Dawlish and Stuart Ackerly interviewed Ginny and Dean
      Weasley, respectively." Crabbe glanced over at the last Auror
      mentioned. "You all right there, Ackerly?" Acklerly had Portkeyed
      in with Dawlish but the older Auror had led him to a chair in the
      conference room and he hadn't moved since then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dean Thomas hit him with a Confundus Charm as we entered their
      apartment," Dawlish spoke up. "I conducted both of the
      interviews."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe cleared his throat before continuing. "None of the
      interviewees admitted to any knowledge of the owls to Mr. Malfoy
      except, as expected, Ronald Weasley. However, as Mr. Goyle
      reported, Weasley himself seemed unable to say who had told him
      about what was written in them. Other than his brothers and their
      wives, the only person he has regular contact with is his sister
      Ginny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy looked at Dawlish, who had interviewed Ginny Thomas. "You
      reported nothing unusual during your interview, and Mrs. Thomas
      didn't give you any further leads. How did she act during the
      interview?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">John Dawlish stood. Though not as big as Vincent Crabbe and
      older by several decades, the man still looked imposing. "She was
      pretty pissed off, of course." There were chuckles around the room.
      "I pressed her and her husband pretty hard for details about
      anything they might have overheard, in their office or from other
      wizards about Potter; Mrs. Thomas said her brother Ron was the
      person who'd mentioned them to her. Her husband didn't know
      anything, either from Weasley himself, his brothers or Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that puts us in a catch-22," Malfoy muttered. When he saw
      the blank looks some of the other Aurors were giving him he added,
      "It's a Muggle term, it means we're chasing Kneazle tails."
      <em class="calibre7">Chasing a Kneazle's tail</em> was common saying meaning you
      were caught in a situation you couldn't get out of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about Pensieving Ron Weasley's memories?" Dawlish asked
      Malfoy. "I read in the summary that Ericson checked him for False
      Memory Charms, but the results were inconclusive. We probably need
      to delve deeper into his memories."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possibly." Malfoy appeared distracted, thinking of something
      else. After nearly a half-minute he took out his wPhone and dialed
      a number. It rang three times before a sleepy voice answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it, Draco?" the Minister of Magic asked, a bit testily.
      "You know it's four-something in the morning, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Minister," Draco said, not really meaning it. "Did I
      wake you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you think?" Hermione snapped. "What do you need?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is Harry with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment of silence. "You called me to ask if Harry's here? Why
      didn't you call <em class="calibre7">him</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess your number came to mind first," Malfoy lied. "Anyway,
      is he there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sigh, then silence for some time. Malfoy could hear movement
      through the phone. Then, "…he's not here right now…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh-huh." Malfoy paused for a moment, letting her think. "Where
      do you think he is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This goes right back to calling his phone, Draco," Hermione
      said, covering her concern with annoyance. "If you'd called him
      first you'd probably be talking to him right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you have no idea where he's at?" Malfoy dug at her a little
      more, then held the phone away from his mouth while he stifled a
      yawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was talking when he put the phone back to his ear.
      "…expect me to keep track of my husband every second, Draco. You're
      the one that doesn't trust him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just thought I'd check, Minister, sorry for the disturbance."
      Malfoy hung up before she could retort. "Potter's not at home," he
      told the other Aurors. "But I think I know where he's at."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's that?" Dawlish wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At Hogwarts. The last letter I got said that he had gone to
      Hogwarts to visit the Chamber of Secrets. That's probably where he
      was when he found out we were searching his offices. I expect he
      went back there afterwards. And that's where we're going now."
      Malfoy turned to Crabbe and Goyle. "You two are with me. Dawlish,
      you're going too. The rest of you bring in the Aurors still at the
      interview sites."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if Potter isn't at Hogwarts?" Vincent Crabbe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he's been there, we'll figure out what he did while he was
      there and pick up his trail," Malfoy decided. "We'll question
      anyone who talked to him, including the Headmaster, and find out
      what they know. Make it happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Aurors got busy with preparations to go to Hogwarts. There
      were warrants to fill out, Portkeys to authorize and enchant, both
      for the Hogwarts team and the interview teams. Crabbe called out
      assignments to the senior and junior Aurors, who quickly followed
      his orders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In less than a minute everything and everyone was ready. Malfoy
      and the senior Aurors on his team vanished, heading toward
      Hogwarts. The remaining Aurors headed out to the interview sites to
      bring in the junior Aurors who had stayed with the interviewees.
      The Auror office was once again empty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moments later four Aurors appeared just outside the gates of
      Hogwarts in a whirl of wind and flashing colors. Malfoy
      frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't see anyone on sentry duty," he commented. "What's
      Longbottom thinking —" A loud snore interrupted him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stepped forward and peered through the gates. Off to one
      side, slumped forward in a rocking chair large enough to
      accommodate two full-sized men, was a large sleeping form, dressed
      in a huge mokeskin coat and furry boots the size of dustbins. He
      wore no hat but a large tangle of salt-and pepper hair and a great
      beard all but covered his face. He snored loudly again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hagrid," Malfoy said loudly. "Wake up!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snoring ceased and a moment later the half-giant slowly
      opened one eye. "Eh?" he grunted. His open eye scanned the grounds
      between himself and Hogwarts. "Did somebody say somethin'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Over here, Hagrid," Malfoy said, annoyed at how slowly the old
      oaf was responding. What kind of security was he supposed to
      provide for the school? "Let us in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid finally opened both eyes, and stared sleepily at the
      group of Aurors standing outside the gates. "Eh? Izzat you,
      Malfoy?" His eyebrows knitted in disapproval. "Kinda early ter be
      showin' up at Hogwarts, aincha? Breakfast ain't even being served
      yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're here to execute a search warrant," Malfoy stated, holding
      up the parchment document.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fer what?" Hagrid wanted to know, then chuckled. "Didjer lose
      one a' yer men or somethin'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The search warrant is for Harry Potter," Malfoy said, then
      pointed at the gates. "Now let us in or I'll have my men arrest you
      for obstruction of justice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Awright, awright, hold yer thestrals." Hagrid heaved himself to
      his feet and fished an enormous key ring out of a pocket of his
      coat. Fingers the size of a chair leg unerringly found a large
      steel key that he slid into the lock holding the chains around the
      gates. The lock opened and the chains slid free. Hagrid pulled open
      the gates, allowing the four Aurors entrance. They began walking
      toward the school, but Hagrid spoke again. "Hang on a minnit, I'll
      walk up with yeh." He quickly slid the chains through the gate
      again and fastened them with the lock, then gestured impatiently up
      the path to the school. "Well, go on, then, yer in sech a great
      tearin' hurry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked the rest of the way in silence. Hagrid stopped at
      the base of the stairs leading up to the entrance, which opened as
      the Aurors trudged up the steps. Headmaster Neville Longbottom
      appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Head Auror Malfoy," he said, cordial but not overly friendly.
      "To what do I owe the honor of this rather early visit to our
      school?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy, already annoyed by Hagrid's attitude, didn't bother with
      being cordial. "We have a warrant to search the school for Harry
      Potter." He held up the warrant for the Headmaster to see. When
      Longbottom reached for it Malfoy pulled it back out of his
      reach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only four of you?" Longbottom smiled. "It's going to take you a
      while. What makes you think Harry is even here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have intelligence to that effect," Draco said, curtly. "Also,
      I understand you had the Weasley brothers install some security
      spells after you became headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was no longer smiling. "Where did you hear something
      like that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd be surprised what Veritaserum can get people to reveal,"
      Draco replied evenly. "Are you going to deny it, Headmaster? Not
      telling us the truth can be seen as an obstruction of justice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Neville said, annoyed. "There are several security
      spells to help me locate people within Hogwarts." The Weasleys had
      set up the spells, at significant cost, when Neville took over the
      Head's position at the school. They'd told him they'd learned about
      the original security system of the school when they'd attended,
      and had managed to recreate most of it, with a few bells and
      whistles of their own. "Harry was here yesterday afternoon, but he
      must've left long before we closed down the school for the
      night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what we're here to find out," Malfoy said. "Do you know
      when he left?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Step inside," Neville said. "We'll find out." He and the four
      Aurors walked into the Entrance Hall. Neville glanced upward,
      addressing the ceiling. "Security, when did Harry Potter arrive at
      Hogwarts yesterday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A cool female voice, similar to the one at the visitor's
      entrance to the Ministry, spoke. "Harry Potter arrived here at 1:47
      p.m. yesterday afternoon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When did he leave?" Neville asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He left at 6:49 p.m.," the cool voice replied. Neville gave
      Malfoy a <em class="calibre7">told-you-so</em> look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about the person who was with him?" Malfoy persisted.
      "James Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you —" Neville began, then decided not to press the
      issue. Obviously Malfoy knew quite a bit about what had been going
      on here at Hogwarts yesterday. Was someone here at the school
      feeding him information? Or did he have some kind of "hook" into
      the security spells the Weasleys had set up for him? If he'd
      questioned them under Veritaserum it was entirely probable, Neville
      had to admit. Instead he asked, "When did James Monroe arrive at
      Hogwarts yesterday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James Monroe arrived here at 1:47 p.m. yesterday
      afternoon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And when did he leave?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He has not left yet," the voice answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Longbottom looked surprised, but Malfoy smiled. "Why doesn't
      that surprise me," the Head Auror said, rhetorically. "Where is he
      now?" he asked the Headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Locate James Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James Monroe cannot be located," the security system's voice
      responded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Curiouser and curiouser," Malfoy muttered. "Can it tell us his
      last known location?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where was James Monroe's last known location?" Neville asked,
      curious himself how someone could still be here and yet be
      invisible to the supposedly infallible security system. The
      Weasleys had told him it could locate <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> within the
      school, whether they were living, dead, disguised by Polyjuice or
      Animagus magic or even hidden within trunks supposedly impenetrable
      to detection magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the seventh floor of the castle," the voice answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Malfoy said, nodding. "Of course." He knew what was on the
      seventh floor. And so, from the look on his face, did Neville
      Longbottom. "Follow me, men," he said to the other Aurors. They set
      off up the grand staircase, heading toward the seventh floor, with
      the Headmaster following closely behind them. Their warrant was for
      Harry Potter, not Monroe, but Neville wanted to find out, even more
      than they did, just what the man was doing up in the Room of
      Requirement without his permission.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," Harry said. He stepped away from the statues of the
      Founders, closing the last book of pre-Interdict spells he'd been
      looking at. "Just, <em class="calibre7">wow</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe, who was massaging the temples of his throbbing head,
      nodded painfully. "Yeah," he agreed. "I think we overdid it,
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who cares?" Harry said, opening the book again. "I can read all
      these spells now! And frankly, they're astonishing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Monroe had spent the past several hours going through
      the old spell and potions books, having the Founder statues read
      them aloud so they could learn and understand them. Monroe had a
      few hours head-start on Harry, having been in the Room of
      Requirement longer than he had, but Harry, spurred by the prospect
      of gaining the old knowledge, knowledge that he hoped would bring
      with it a way to hasten the beginning of the Magical Singularity
      and perhaps the end of the Interdict itself, had pushed hard with
      the Founders, continuing on even when Monroe stopped to rest his
      brain. His own head throbbing as well, Harry had nevertheless
      committed spell after spell, ritual after ritual, to memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hadn't hurt when one of the Founders read the Memory
      Enhancing ritual to them, and both Harry and Monroe decided to try
      it on themselves. The 40-minute ritual included drinking a potion,
      which the Room thoughtfully provided, and repetition of a series of
      chants, written in ancient runes, that gave both of them an eidetic
      memory. It also produced a blinding headache in each of them, a
      headache that would not respond to pain-relief spells, being a
      side-effect of the ritual itself. But they could now precisely
      recall each of the spells they had memorizes as well as any spell
      they had ever learned, along with most of the other memories of
      their lives, both magical and mundane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some very powerful spells," Monroe said. "Permanent
      Transfiguration. Summoning spells that work across any distance and
      transport the object to you like Apparition. Spells to extend life
      and youth three or four times the normal limits of a wizard's
      lifetime. Magical cures for vision and hearing problems — you would
      never have to wear glasses again, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And spells to multiply food and jewels," Harry added. "I could
      buy one meal and never have to buy one again, assuming I only
      wanted to eat that one meal over and over again. I could have
      clothes covered in emeralds and rubies if I wanted. I wonder if
      there's a spell to multiply gold and silver?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which came first," Monroe asked rhetorically, "the
      Philosopher's Stone or the gold-making spell? Flamel made his Stone
      in the late 1300's or early 1400's. Historical records indicated
      his wife Perenelle died around 1412; he must have created the Stone
      by then and used it on her, pretending she died. He finally faked
      his own death six years later, in 1418. If Merlin died casting the
      Interdict around 1160 or so, as is commonly believed, the Interdict
      had been in effect 260 years by the time Flamel disappeared. It's
      possible that a lot of advanced magic disappeared from wizarding
      knowledge in that period of time; Flamel may have been the last man
      able to piece together enough of the ancient, powerful magic handed
      down orally to create the Stone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, but he was only half-listening. He was thinking
      about his other books, the ones hidden in his Bat Cave. He really
      wanted to get some of those books — hell, <em class="calibre7">all</em> of them —
      here in this room and have the Founders read them to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What he'd <em class="calibre7">really</em> like to do, what he desperately
      <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> to do, was to find a way to bring these statues to
      the Bat Cave and spend as much time as he needed going through
      those books, learning everything that was learnable from them. But,
      realistically, that wasn't going to happen, he knew. He and Monroe
      had already crammed several books worth of Interdict-protected
      spells in their heads, each, and they had to get out of here, get
      some rest, and figure out what they should do next with the
      knowledge the minds of the Founders had given to them. The headache
      the Memory Enhancing ritual had given him was beginning to fade, it
      felt like, and he hoped some sleep would relieve it even more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As much as I'd like to stay and continue learning more
      Interdict-protected spells," Harry said to Monroe. "I think we need
      to go home and get some rest. It's nearly morning — Hermione will
      probably wonder where I've been all night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked up at Harry. "Are you going to tell her where
      we've been?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry replied, earnestly. "She's already worried that
      Malfoy is looking for a way to discredit me with the Wizengamot
      using my relationship with the Muggle business community, both in
      Britain and globally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe snorted. "I'd think most members of the Wizengamot have
      their fingers in some Muggle pies themselves, anyway!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "But only indirectly, for the most part, so they
      rationalize to themselves that they're not really collaborating
      with Muggles — they think of it as 'taking advantage of a
      situation,' not collaborating or even partnering with them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what are we going to do with this new magical knowledge
      we've gained?" Monroe asked, more pointedly. "Do you still intend
      to break the Interdict?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was silent for several moments. "I don't know," he said at
      last. "It may not be a good idea to break the Interdict."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because…" Monroe prompted, after a few moments of silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because there are people who may not be able to handle spells
      as powerful as we've seen in these books," Harry said, gesturing
      toward the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are <em class="calibre7">we</em> able to handle them?" Monroe pondered. "Do you
      still feel like playing God?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Monroe sharply. "What makes you ask that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You told someone once that every time someone cries out in
      prayer and you can't answer, you feel guilty about not being
      God."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't remember saying anything like that in front of you,"
      Harry said, though he <em class="calibre7">had</em> said that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It made a big impression on Neville," Monroe explained. "He
      discussed it with several people in his House, and they talked
      about it as well. I asked him about it directly during a quiet
      moment in one of Quirrell's battle exercises." He smiled. "Having
      an eidetic memory is pretty cool, huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave a non-committal shrug. Maybe he <em class="calibre7">did</em> still
      want to be God. But he wasn't going to say so aloud, even in front
      of Monroe. Some things in your life you learned not to wear on your
      sleeve. "Are you ready to go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," said Monroe. "I think I remember how to get back in
      here, if we come back. Which I think we —" He stopped talking for a
      moment. "Did you hear something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like what?" Harry asked. "We're the only ones here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Outside the wall," Monroe said, walking toward the wall where
      the door had been. He stopped before the door appeared. "I thought
      I heard something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Fap</em>, <em class="calibre7">fap</em>, <em class="calibre7">fap</em>. The sound of a hand
      slapping the wall. Harry and Monroe looked at one another.
      <em class="calibre7">Tap</em>, <em class="calibre7">tap</em>, <em class="calibre7">tap</em>. The next sounds were
      sharper, like someone tapping the wall with something. Like a
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James Monroe, are you in there?" Neville's muffled voice came
      through the wall. "We know you haven't left the castle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We</em>? Harry took out his wand and pointed it at the wall.
      It was time to use one of the spells he'd learned, a powerful
      detection spell. "<em class="calibre7">Kitore salyudak</em>," he canted softly. The
      wall seemed to fade before his eyes, revealing Neville on the
      opposite side. There were four Aurors standing behind him: Malfoy,
      his two regulars Crabbe and Goyle, and John Dawlish. "Crap," Harry
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you see?" Monroe asked. "Was that the Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, and he's got four Aurors with him," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only <em class="calibre7">four</em>?" Monroe looked both surprised and
      amused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe they don't think I'm with you," Harry said. "He only
      asked for you, not for both of us. Malfoy probably would have
      brought a whole squad of Aurors if he thought we were both
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He might have anyway," Monroe suggested. "We don't know where
      the rest of them are right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment one Auror, Stuart Ackerly, appeared outside the
      apartment building where Dean and Ginny Weasley lived, and where
      junior Aurors Hal Perkins and Rene Aberjon were currently waiting
      for further orders. He trudged tiredly to the door and cast the
      recognition signal spell to alert the Aurors inside that another
      Auror wanted entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no answering signal. Ackerly tried again, then a third
      time, with the same result. He cursed under his breath at the
      inconvenience. If Perkins and Aberjon had dozed off he was
      reporting them, mates or not! He waved his wand unobtrusively at
      the door, unlocking it, then entered. Protocol required calling for
      a backup when the recognition signal wasn't answered, but there was
      nobody back at department HQ, and he wasn't about to wake anyone
      else up. If he caught the two juniors asleep he'd put a false
      memory of answering the signal in one of them and let <em class="calibre7">them</em>
      explain why Auror Ackerly had caught them having a kip!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ackerly walked silently up to the Thomas' apartment, listening
      for any sounds that might tell him what was going on. He heard
      nothing. Trying the door, he found it open. That, too, was not
      according to protocol, especially in a Muggle apartment building.
      Ackerly slipped inside, looking around the apartment's living room.
      In the middle of the room there was a chair, a tall, light-skinned
      black man tied to it, slumped over unconscious. That was Dean
      Thomas, Ackerly knew; he frowned at the man who'd managed to
      Confund him as he and Dawlish entered the apartment several hours
      earlier. Of Perkins or Aberjon there was no sign, so Ackerly
      continued into the kitchen, where Ginny Thomas had been
      interrogated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What Ackerly found there made him gasp. In the chair in the
      middle of the kitchen floor Junior Auror Perkins was slumped
      forward; his arms, tied behind the back of the chair, kept him from
      falling over. In a corner of the kitchen another body lay sprawled
      on the floor — Ackerly could see it was Aberjon. He automatically
      cast a spell toward Aberjon, a spell that told him the man was
      dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rushing over to Perkins, Ackerly knelt down so he could see the
      man's face better. He pointed his wand at the man and cast
      <em class="calibre7">Rennervate</em> on him. "Hal!" he said urgently, as Perkins
      came to, groaning. "What the hell happened here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weasley…" Perkins whispered. He looked up at Ackerly. His
      entire body was trembling. "Get out," he said hoarsely. "Run
      away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ackerly shook his head, confused. "Run, why, Hal? Why should I
      run?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trap," Perkins said, straightening up. "Run."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Run from who?" Ackerly persisted, looking around for the trap
      Perkins warned him of. "Is Ginny Weasley still here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Perkins shook his head. His right hand came out from
      behind the chair. It held his wand. "<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ackerly fell over dead, a confused expression still on his face.
      Perkins shook his head in anguish even as he turned the wand on
      himself and repeated the Killing Curse. There was a flash of green
      and the apartment was silent once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was several minutes before anything else happened; one of the
      chairs in the kitchen suddenly tipped over. It flowed and writhed,
      changing from a kitchen chair to the body of a man. The body of
      John Dawlish.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
