<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 23: Interview with the Dark Lord, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s23" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 23: Interview with the Dark Lord</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Updated</em> 12/7/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched in silent horror as his friend James Monroe
      dropped lifelessly to the floor of the apartment. He involuntarily
      strained against the Body-Bind spell that held him, but could not
      break it wandlessly. And it was good that he could not do so — he
      did <em class="calibre7">not</em> want to show his horror, his grief, to the person
      that had just murdered his friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes locked on Ginny Thomas, who still held the pose she
      had taken when cursing James to death. Her eyes were on him now,
      and those eyes, Harry could see, felt nothing for what she had just
      done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> Ginny Thomas who had killed Monroe, Harry
      knew; it was someone much more dangerous, more cunning and
      ruthless, than anyone Harry had ever known in his 36 years of life.
      It was Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had once accused James Monroe of being Voldemort, but he
      hadn't really believed it. He believed Voldemort had been dead for
      almost 20 years, killed in 1998 when Harry and Dumbledore destroyed
      the second Horcrux he'd created and Harry defeated him in combat.
      He should not be alive now. How, and why, he had surfaced again was
      something Harry would have to discover.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before he killed him again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't have to do that," an icy cold voice crackled from
      Harry's throat. "You're back for me, not him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mostly correct, Mr. Potter," Ginny's voice agreed. "I've been
      waiting a long time for my revenge." Her arm dropped to her side,
      and she turned to look at Harry. Her eyes were as cold and soulless
      as Voldemort's had been, the last time Harry gazed into them. "But
      you should not presume to dictate the terms of my revenge to me.
      Mr. Monroe's death, while collateral in one sense, is also a
      necessary part of my plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So now what?" Harry asked, still in the ice-cold tone he hadn't
      used in many years, not since he'd learned to control the dark
      aspect of his character. Would he have a chance to learn the Dark
      Lord's plan? "Do you plan to kill me next?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An amused smirk twisted Ginny's lips. "Of course not. After all
      the years I've waited for this, do you suppose I'd simply kill you
      without sufficient suffering on your part in repayment of the debt
      you owe me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure what to think," Harry answered honestly. "It's
      always been hard to read you, Tom." That was true enough, and
      perhaps Harry shouldn't have admitted it, but he hoped using
      Voldemort's real name would distract the man enough to give Harry a
      slight edge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the Dark wizard seemed to ignore the jab. "I've been careful
      not to give any indication I was alive," Ginny's voice said,
      quietly. "It was only because of you and Monroe stumbling into a
      way to beat the Interdict that caused me to show myself today.
      Otherwise, things might have continued the way they were for years
      while I consolidated my power in the Wizengamot and Ministry, until
      I had circumstances arranged just the way I needed them to be for
      my return."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What circumstances?" Harry asked, wondering if Voldemort was in
      a bragging mood. It was unlikely — one of his rules was <em class="calibre7">Don't
      brag</em>, but if Harry had already disrupted his original plan he
      might be willing to disrupt things even more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny's arm waved dismissively. "We'll get to that in a
      bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Harry said, after a moment. "Then let's go back to
      my original comment. You didn't have to kill James."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He'd served his purpose," the Dark Lord said, stepping next to
      Monroe's body and reaching down to feel for a pulse. He looked up,
      seeing Harry watching him, and added. "You can never be too
      cautious these days, even with the Killing Curse. There are more
      ways to avoid it than you might think. Even if it works, the person
      might come back anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose <em class="calibre7">you'd</em> know that," Harry muttered darkly. "Do
      you think James had a Horcrux?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," James's murderer replied. "He was too 'good' for that. But
      I'm sure you realize now, Mr. Potter, that you don't need to do
      murder to create a Horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The statues of the Founders in the Room of Requirement were
      proof of that, Harry knew. But none of the spells they had passed
      to Harry would let him move his memories, his personality, into an
      inanimate object, to imbue it with his…soul…if you wanted to call
      it that. But —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not interested in that type of immortality," Harry said,
      with a slow shake of his head, the only motion his body could still
      muster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither was I," Voldemort agreed, with a thin smile. "But
      murder <em class="calibre7">does</em> make for the best Horcruxes, even if the act
      is technically unnecessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Horcruxes," Harry said. "Did I miss one of them,
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny's possessor was looking calculatingly around the room. "It
      would seem so," her voice replied in a distracted tone. She
      suddenly bent down, picking up Monroe's body in a fireman's carry
      and moving toward the front door. She set Monroe down on his feet,
      then allowed him to fall forward to the floor with a
      <em class="calibre7">thump.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did I miss it?" Harry asked, watching Voldemort's actions
      with growing concern. <em class="calibre7">What was he doing with James's
      body</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come now, Mr. Potter," the Dark Lord said, studying the
      position of Monroe's body on the floor. "You're the one with the
      perfect memory, even if you're only half as smart now as you were
      before. You already have enough information to figure out where at
      least one of my other Horcruxes is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was silent for several seconds, remembering everything he
      and Voldemort had said to one another over the years. Remembering
      wasn't the problem, of course; he could remember everything he'd
      ever said, ever read, even ever glanced at casually as he walked
      down the street. What was important now was the meaning hidden in
      some of those words, and that was going to be more difficult now
      that his intelligence was halved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To hide the fact that he was coming up with nothing, he instead
      asked, "What are you doing with Monroe's body?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Setting the stage a bit," Ginny's voice answered. One of her
      arms waved at him. Harry, still unable to move his body, felt
      himself rise in the air a short distance and float over to the
      front door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stepping to the middle of the room, Voldemort took out Harry and
      Ginny's wands. "Now that you've killed Monroe —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would <em class="calibre7">I</em> have killed Monroe?" Harry interrupted.
      "He and I have been good friends for months now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort laughed. It was a strange, unnatural sound coming from
      Ginny's mouth. "You became unhinged when you learned that Monroe
      found a way to beat the Interdict of Merlin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed as well, in derision. "Why would I do that? I've
      been trying to beat the Interdict before I ever heard of James
      Monroe!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly," Voldemort agreed. "<em class="calibre7">You</em> wanted to be the one
      to defeat Merlin's magic-limiting spell, not him. After Ginny
      arrived, you saw an opportunity to kill Monroe and blame her for
      his death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's preposterous," Harry said, flatly. "Ginny's been with me
      a long time —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you were upset when she told you she was in love with
      Monroe," Voldemort spoke over him, after Monroe left to get food
      for the three of you. "That's why you killed him the moment he
      stepped through the door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort smiled at the look of shock and confusion on Harry's
      face. "Don't worry, Harry, you will believe everything I'm telling
      you has transpired, and you will tell the Aurors willingly. Now,
      let's what kind of duel you and Ginny might have had."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort began an elaborate back-and-forth duel across the
      room, throwing Blasting Curses, Stunners, Disarming Charms, somehow
      casting Shields simultaneously so that the curses deflected off
      them, slamming into the walls and floors, breaking and shattering
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Voldemort finished the room was in a shambles; walls
      blasted down to plaster, the divan ripped apart, the carpet smoking
      in several places. Harry could hear screaming in some other part of
      the building, probably in response to the explosions from the
      mock-duel Voldemort had staged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There," Ginny's voice said, dropping a wand next to Monroe's
      outstretched hand. "That should do nicely. Now you and I can go
      somewhere and talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort picked a torn sofa pillow off the floor and touched it
      with Harry's wand. "<em class="calibre7">Portus</em>," he said, then pressed it
      against Harry's arm. A moment later he felt the normal
      hook-behind-the-navel sensation of Portkey travel, and they were in
      the anteroom of his and Hermione's apartment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort waved a hand at Harry, floating him down the corridor
      to the living room of the apartment. Harry's eyes were darting back
      and forth in consternation — his home was a shambles, as if there'd
      been some kind of fight here as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort floated him in front of a chair that wasn't blasted
      apart, then momentarily released the Body-Bind. Harry flopped into
      the chair, but before he could jump to his feet he was Bound again,
      though his head still had movement. Voldemort conjured a chair and
      sat down across from Harry, regarding him impassively. "Any
      questions, Potter?" he asked, smiling maliciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First, a comment," Harry replied. "I see you're still afraid of
      me, Tom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny's face colored a bit but didn't lose the smile. "You
      shouldn't mistake a prudent caution for fear, Mr. Potter. I don't
      need you leaping at me at odd moments due to your loss of cognitive
      ability, leading you to believe you have any kind of chance of
      escaping. Anything else before I explain your situation to
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "How about the obvious question, then? Why aren't
      you dead? And don't give me the obvious answer, please. I'll deduct
      Potter points for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort chuckled. "I see you remember my old motivational
      system for getting students to think for themselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I remember pretty much everything," Harry retorted.
      "Especially now. But I'm still waiting for you to answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny's body leaned back and folded her arms across her chest, a
      very un-Ginny-like gesture. "I'm afraid my answer must be the
      obvious one, however — you did not find all of my Horcruxes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems unlikely," Harry disagreed. "Once I showed your
      diary to Dumbledore and we realized what it was, Dumbledore deduced
      that you would not be content to create a single Horcrux. The two
      most powerful magical numbers are three and seven. Splitting your
      soul into seven would make it dangerously unstable, so we concluded
      that you split it into three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was silent for some time, staring at Harry. "Did you
      ever question old Slughorn about the conversation I had with him
      about Horcruxes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore did," Harry answered. "He was not very forthcoming
      about it — he told the Headmaster he refused to tell you anything
      about them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort nodded. "He was loathe to discuss it at first, Dark as
      it was, but the old fool couldn't help but boast of his deep
      knowledge on the subject, especially to an up-and-coming young
      wizard such as I was at the time. I'm sure he expected me to be
      quite an asset to him in his later years, after retirement, when he
      believed I'd be Minister of Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both your diary and the Gaunt ring were destroyed," Harry
      pointed out. "The diary in my sixth year and the ring the year
      after, and we finally defeated you once and for all!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or so you thought," Voldemort added, softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So there <em class="calibre7">are</em> more Horcruxes," Harry said, voicing his
      worst fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">At least</em> one more," the entity possessing Ginny
      agreed. "Would you like me to tell you where it's at?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed, a raw, scornful sound. "No, I suppose I should
      work that out for myself, Tom." It was impossible to think of the
      person in Ginny's body as her anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have all but told you where it is already, you know," Tom
      pointed out with a sardonic smile. "I was going to say that you
      probably don't remember, but that would be incorrect now, wouldn't
      it? The problem you have now is deducing which of the many things
      we talked about refers to it, and where you might find it
      today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Assuming I'm going to be alive to do so," Harry muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was irritation in Voldemort's response. "Have I not
      already said I have no plans to kill you, Mr. Potter? My designs
      for you, as hastily as they have been conceived, require that you,
      Mrs. Thomas, and even your wife remain alive and that you all play
      your assigned roles in the drama that will shortly unfold."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tensed, a reaction that fortunately wasn't very noticeable
      as he was Bound at the moment. It must be late, yet Hermione was
      not home. Or at least, she had not yet burst into the room, wand
      blasting spells at the person holding him against his will. A late
      night at the office? Harry dearly hoped so, he might still be able
      to find a way to turn the tables on Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That did not seem like a reasonable goal at the moment,
      however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps we should discuss just what those roles are going to
      be," Harry suggested. "Just for the sake of argument, as it
      were."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort did not reply for some time, he simply sat looking at
      Harry, rubbing Ginny's chin thoughtfully. "That does violate my
      rule against divulging my evil plots," he said at last. "But as you
      will be False-Memory Charmed into believing what I want you to
      believe, along with Ginny Thomas and your wife, it might be
      interesting for once to tell you just what is going to happen to
      all of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort stood. "And speaking of your wife," he added. "Perhaps
      she should join us at this time." Without another word he turned
      disappeared down the hallway where their bedroom was, leaving Harry
      alone and anxious about what had happened to Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry immediately began trying to break the Body-Bind spell
      again. This one didn't feel as strong as the previous one had, but
      it still wasn't responding to his wandless counter charms. The
      Founders had given him some powerful dispelling charms, but they
      were all meant to work with a wand, and Voldemort still had
      his.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He needed to think of a way out of this mess, but that was the
      problem: the ritual that had given him a perfect memory had also
      taken away half of his intelligence, his ability to think logically
      and plan accordingly. He had access to all of his memories, but
      <em class="calibre7">using</em> those memories to solve problems wasn't nearly as
      easy anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least he knew that Voldemort didn't plan to kill him, Ginny
      or Hermione, Harry reflected. Whatever happened to him, even if he
      was False-Memory Charmed, he might be able to use some type of
      memory trick, like his recognition code mnemonic, to help him
      remember that he'd been given false memories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was movement in the hallway Voldemort had walked into
      earlier and this time Harry could not repress the gasp of surprise
      that was ripped from him as he recognized his wife floating before
      the Dark Lord. She was curled in a fetal form, arms hugging her
      drawn-up legs, and everywhere Harry could see exposed skin it
      appeared cyanotic. "What the hell did you do to her, Riddle?!"
      Harry shouted angrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort made no reply, but simply floated Hermione's body next
      to the chair where Harry was Bound. Dust and debris on the floor
      blew away, leaving a relatively clean spot for her, and she slowly
      sank to the ground. Even turning his head, Harry could only see
      part of her from his vantage point in the chair — the armrest
      blocked the rest of her. She did not appear to be breathing. "I
      thought you said you needed her alive," Harry rasped, fearing the
      worst.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is a Hibernation Charm," Voldemort said, sitting down across
      from Harry once again. "I set a trap in your 'Bat Cave' for when
      she returned home, having removed several items from there
      beforehand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've been in the Bat Cave?" Harry frowned. "That's not
      possib—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, please," Voldemort said, almost wearily. "Have you
      forgotten who I <em class="calibre7">am</em>, Mr. Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't forgotten, of course, but he hadn't expected
      Voldemort to suddenly reappear, either. "Whatever," he said,
      dismissively. "You need to remove that spell from Hermione
      <em class="calibre7">immediately</em>, before it harms her!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The spell is perfectly safe for up to a half-year on the
      average human," Voldemort pointed out. "On wizards it can last for
      up to a year before fat reserves are depleted and the body begins
      consuming its own muscle mass. Your wife has been under the spell
      for only a few hours — she will be fine while I describe the
      scenario I've devised for you, Ginny and your wife." Voldemort
      smiled thinly. "Unless you'd prefer I simply put your false
      memories in place right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm listening," Harry muttered, grimly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort sat back with a satisfied smile. "I do admit this
      scenario is a bit rushed — your and Monroe's actions at Hogwarts
      forced my hand to some extent, but it's also true that had you not
      found a way around the Interdict, it might have been years before I
      made my move against the Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Ministry again?" Harry shook his head. "That didn't come
      off so well the first time." Voldemort had made an effort in
      Harry's seventh year to wrest control of the Ministry from
      then-Minister Rufus Scrimgeour, who had gained control the year
      before as Cornelius Fudge was pushed out by Lucius Malfoy, who
      found he had become so corrupt that he was taking money from other
      pureblood wizards as well as Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Voldemort could succeed, however, Harry and Dumbledore
      had located his ring Horcrux and destroyed it, and they and Order
      of the Phoenix members confronted him as he and a number of Death
      Eaters stormed the Ministry in an all-out effort to take it from
      Scrimgeour's control. Voldemort killed the Headmaster during the
      initial confrontation, but Harry, using Dumbledore's wand, was able
      to defeat him afterwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is true," Voldemort agreed, "but this time I won't be
      quite so straightforward as I was the last time. In any event, the
      Ministry will be distracted by a major accomplishment this time —
      they will be celebrating the arrest of Harry Potter for practicing
      forbidden magic — and murder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Murder," Harry snorted. "Do you mean Monroe? I know you used my
      wand to kill him. But a lot of people knew we were friends, they'll
      question why I would suddenly kill him without reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort put an arm on the armrest of his chair and leaned his
      face against his palm. "Because when you woke up in the apartment
      earlier Ginny was there but Monroe was gone, and she told you she
      was in love with him and had decided to leave Dean, and you, and be
      with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to laugh at that in spite of the cold chill that
      statement sent up his spine. "Ginny's not that mental. She and Dean
      are going through a rough patch but they'll work it out eventually.
      And she's never shown the slightest indication she's interested in
      Monroe. Or was," he added, soberly, remembering that Monroe was
      dead now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She'd been wanting to tell you for some time," Voldemort went
      on as if Harry hadn't spoken. "She's still fiercely loyal to you
      but she was worried about what you and Monroe have been doing these
      past few months — trying to find the Source of Magic, trying to
      break the Interdict, and even trying to figure out how to initiate
      a Magical Singularity. All of these things would cause massive
      disruptions to the wizarding world, not just in Britain, but
      worldwide. In fact, she's the reason why her brother Ron has been
      writing the Ministry with information on your activities, trying to
      spur Head Auror Malfoy into investigating what you've been
      doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that's really been <em class="calibre7">your</em> doing, hasn't it?" Harry
      said, in a hard voice. He glanced to his side where his wife still
      lay curled up in a ball, barely breathing. "Hermione's been up my
      back about it as well — subtly, because she doesn't know most of
      the details, only that Monroe and I were discussing those subjects,
      but she's been afraid that Malfoy was going to start leaning on
      <em class="calibre7">her</em> to explain what I've been doing. He already tried to
      raid my business, as you know, and find something incriminating
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He'll be here later tonight," Voldemort told him. "Ginny will
      have sent him a message offering to give herself up for the murder
      of the three Aurors in exchange for information about Harry
      Potter's illegal magical activities, and as a witness to his murder
      of James Monroe, in order to gain leniency for her punishment at
      Azkaban. Malfoy will come here to take her into custody. Fortunate
      for both you and her that the dementors are no longer used
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced to his side once again. "And how does Hermione
      figure in all this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort smiled. "As a participant, hardly at all. She knew
      none of what was going on between you, Ginny and Monroe beyond your
      magical investigations, but was unaware of your illegal
      actions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"However, with you and Ginny being sent to Azkaban, she will
      undergo a breakdown and resign as Minister of Magic. She will
      appoint Draco Malfoy as interim Minister, and within a month or so
      he will be elected Minister in his own right." Voldemort sat back,
      waiting to see what Harry would make of that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Draco ends up as Minister," Harry said, slowly. Given what
      Voldemort was capable of, it wasn't hard to draw the conclusion—
      "You'll possess Draco at some point, making you the Minister of
      Magic," he finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort applauded softly. "Very good, Mr. Potter. I see you
      retained enough intelligence to work that out on your own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a gesture of indifference. "That will probably make
      Lucius happy, but I can't imagine you'll be happy with the
      paperwork and drudgery of that position. Dark Lords make rather
      poor bureaucrats."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort chuckled. "I shall consider myself warned. Other than
      that, what do you think of my plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't answer. Alarmingly, it seemed plausible enough,
      given that the False-Memory Charms were good enough to fool the
      improved Veritaserum the Ministry used these days. Harry had to
      assume Voldemort had taken that into account. "It might work," he
      finally admitted, trying to put doubt into his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It will," Voldemort answered immediately. "I have all the
      details worked out precisely. Malfoy will enter this apartment,
      ostensibly alone, because of an agreement with Ginny, but he'll
      have Crabbe and Goyle with him, Disillusioned, after he allows
      Ginny to cast detection charms before giving up her wand to
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But her wand, touching his hand, will trigger a spell that will
      allow me to slip out of Ginny and into him, undetectably, and I
      will lie dormant for several hours before asserting my dominance
      over him. By then he will have you and Ginny on your way to
      Azkaban, and Hermione, heartbroken by the loss of her husband and
      one of her closest friends, will resign as Minister of Magic. Since
      no one even believes the Dark Lord could have returned once again,
      no one will be the wiser. And I will begin consolidating my
      position as Minister using Lucius's money and influence, weakening
      and corrupting the Wizengamot until it becomes useless as a
      political tool, leaving the Ministry the supreme law of the
      land."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For what it's worth," Harry said, in a cold, grim tone, "I
      think you'll fail."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A thin smile spread across Voldemort's lips. "And what leads you
      to that conclusion, Mr. Potter? Wishful thinking, perhaps?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't far from the truth, but— "You don't have the
      patience to be Minister, Tom. You're more of a puppet master than a
      puppet — you prefer to be behind the scenes, directing your
      minions' actions rather than interacting with the dozens of people
      you'll need to deal with to be Minister."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort's expression had changed from cynical amusement to
      thoughtful contemplation. "I do not necessarily agree with your
      assessment," he said, quietly. "But you do make salient points that
      I will consider after the Ministry is mine." He stood. "For now,
      however, we will finish up here and get you and Ginny on your way
      to Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort stepped next to Hermione and pointed his wand at her,
      moving it in a quick but complicated pattern. Her body glowed
      faintly yellow for several moments. "Your wife is now free of the
      Hibernation Charm. It will take several minutes for her body to
      warm to a temperature where her body will be relaxed enough to
      unfold, at which time I will administer a Warming Potion and a
      Sleeping Potion. I do not wish her to awaken until after Malfoy and
      the Aurors have arrived and taken you and Ginny into custody."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had listened to Voldemort's monologue in silence. "When
      are you going to False-Memory Charm Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is already done," Voldemort replied. "I took care of that
      after placing her under the Hibernation Charm. Ginny has had her
      memories altered as well — she will be under their influence after
      I leave her body for Malfoy's. That leaves only <em class="calibre7">you</em>, Mr.
      Potter. Prepare yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort pointed his wand at Harry. A jolt of nausea hit him
      and memories began flooding into his brain. It was not like being
      in a Pensieve, where you experienced another person's memories as
      if you were standing there with them, but like being force-fed
      thoughts. He was in Ginny's apartment with her, she was telling him
      she planned to leave Dean and run away with Monroe to America, she
      had to go because she'd killed the three Aurors who'd come into her
      home to question her and Dean. She'd done it so she could rescue
      Monroe and Harry from Hogwarts, primarily Monroe. Harry felt
      shocked and betrayed, and when Monroe entered the apartment Harry
      had pushed Ginny aside and angrily murdered Monroe with the Killing
      Curse. A fight ensued between him and Ginny, which he won, Stunning
      her and Portkeying them to his home in the TBC Building, where he
      found Hermione under a Hibernation Charm. He revived her, but was
      then knocked out by Ginny using a second wand she'd secreted on her
      person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was concentrating on his recognition code mnemonic, hoping
      that somehow it would trigger his memory of the actual chain of
      events, which would only be suppressed by the False-Memory Charm,
      not erased. But it was unnecessary — both sequences of events were
      still easily remembered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was frowning. "Interesting," he said, staring into
      Harry's eyes; he could no longer move his head or even close his
      eyes. "You remember both your own memories and the ones I've
      implanted. Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew why, but he wasn't going to say anything if —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Voldemort said, chagrin in his voice. "The Total
      Memory Ritual allows you to recall <em class="calibre7">everything,</em> even
      memories that should be repressed. I had not counted on this." The
      wand was still leveled at Harry. "It may be, Mr. Potter, that I
      will be forced to kill you to keep you from talking, and make Ginny
      responsible for your death. Not really my first choice, since I
      prefer that you end your days in prison, but I may have no
      choice."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
