<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 28: The Return, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 28: The Return</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Updated</em> 4/27/2013</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not just giving up!" Harry said flatly, and Sirius nodded
      agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Giving up isn't like you, Moony," Sirius added.
      "<em class="calibre7">Especially</em> against the powers that be. We've got to get
      out of here now and find someplace else to hole up!" He grinned
      suddenly, an idea coming to mind. "Say, what if we go up to
      Hogwarts and sneak into the Room of Requirement? We were always
      pretty safe there!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not a bad idea," Harry agreed. "When Monroe and I were
      in Hogwarts we held off Malfoy and a group of Aurors — they didn't
      know our exact reason for being in there, and the Room won't let
      you in if you don't how the current occupants got in there. Remus,
      we've got to try!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus did not look nearly as confident as Harry and Sirius did.
      "Just getting into Hogwarts won't be easy," he objected. "And the
      security system Harry talked about will be able to find us anywhere
      in the castle —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except the Room of Requirement!" Harry pointed out. "Even the
      Marauder's Map couldn't find anyone hidden in there!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And there's the matter of Mrs. Thomas upstairs," Remus went on.
      "She needs time to rest and recuperate from the neglect she
      suffered in Azkaban. I don't think she should be moved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can drop her off in the infirmary at Hogwarts," Sirius
      suggested. "If that spitfire of a nurse is still there, she won't
      let <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> take her until she's fully recovered, not even
      the Minister of Magic!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Pomfrey is still there," Harry confirmed. "And yeah,
      you're right about her, Sirius! Good plan!" He turned back to
      Remus. "You don't have to go with us, you can stay and wait for the
      Aurors if you want, but we're going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin looked conflicted, but he finally nodded. "Alright, let's
      try it your way," he said. "Meet me upstairs," and he Disapparated.
      A moment later Harry and Sirius joined him in the drawing room,
      where Remus was picking up Ginny so he could carry her. Without a
      word he turned and left the drawing room, moving quietly down the
      hallway toward the front door. Harry and Sirius followed closely,
      looking warily at the curtains covering the portrait of Sirius's
      mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the front door Remus spoke softly. "Harry, you or Sirius
      create a Portkey to get us to the gates of Hogwarts. From there
      it's going to be difficult, especially if Headmaster Longbottom
      doesn't want us there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry about Neville," Harry said. "He's no fan of Draco
      Malfoy, either. Of course, I don't want to impose on his
      hospitality too much, so the less he knows about what we're doing
      there, the better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius held up an umbrella he'd taken from the troll leg
      umbrella stand further back in the hallway. "This'll do for a
      Portkey, won't it?" he asked. "And it'll come in handy if it's
      raining in Scotland!" He tapped the umbrella with the wand he
      carried and said, "<em class="calibre7">Portus</em>." The wand flashed blue. "Okay,
      it'll go in 30 seconds," he said. "Everyone grab hold."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Outside," Lupin ordered. "Too much residual magic will be held
      in the walls and floor if we do it here, in closed quarters." Harry
      opened the front door and Lupin, still carrying Ginny, hurried
      outside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Sirius said, getting his attention, then tossed him the
      umbrella. "Be there in a second."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hurry up!" Harry said, then followed Remus outside. What could
      Sirius be doing?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin had moved away from number 12 and into the grassy square
      that the other houses surrounded. "Where'd Sirius go?" he asked
      anxiously as Harry caught up to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's doing something, I don't know —" A woman's shrill screams
      suddenly came from the doorway of number 12.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Scum! Filth! Traitors of our blood! Begone from my home, all of
      you!" The screams diminished as Sirius exited the front door,
      closing it behind him, and cut off entirely as he pointed his wand
      at the door. He jogged out to where Harry and Remus were standing,
      with Ginny still held in Remus's arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thought I'd give anyone going in there something to listen to,"
      he grinned as Harry held out the umbrella.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very droll," Remus commented dryly, taking Ginny's hand and
      holding it against the umbrella along with his own. "Hurry up!" he
      commanded, and Sirius reached out and put a finger on the handle
      just as the umbrella flashed blue and they all vanished in a
      whirlwind of color and sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moments later Harry was looking up at the large iron gates of
      Hogwarts, flanked by columns with winged pigs along their tops. He
      shivered; it was a cold day, with an icy breeze making the
      temperature even more uncomfortable. There was a thin layer of snow
      on the grounds. Harry could see a single track of footprints in the
      snow, rather large ones, in fact, leading up to the gate then away
      again. They were likely Hagrid's footprints, when he'd come and
      unlocked the gates for the day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't that long ago that he'd come here with Monroe to seek
      out information in the Chamber of Secrets, then ended up playing
      cat-and-mouse with Malfoy and his Aurors. He, Monroe and Ginny had
      managed to escape, but it wasn't long after that Ginny revealed
      herself to be possessed by Voldemort, who killed Monroe and framed
      Harry with his death. Along the way he'd killed three Aurors; their
      deaths were blamed on Ginny, too, because it appeared to be
      <em class="calibre7">her</em> who'd killed them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment Remus was transferring Ginny's unconscious form
      to Sirius. "Now hold still," he said, taking another wand from his
      robes and tapping Ginny on the head. She began to fade from view as
      the Disillusionment Charm took effect, and Remus followed suit with
      Sirius, Harry, and then himself. "Now let's get out of this cold,"
      his voice said, and the gates slowly swung open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius, you lead the way," Remus's voice said. "Harry, find his
      shoulder and put your hand on it. I'll bring up the rear, to cover
      our tracks." Harry found Sirius's shoulder, and the invisible
      Marauder began walking towards the front steps of the castle. Harry
      felt Remus's hand on his shoulder, then looked down and back at
      their footsteps in the snow. A few paces behind them the footprints
      were disappearing as Remus "repaired" them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm glad you came with us," Harry said quietly to Remus as they
      walked. "I think we have a real chance of exposing Malfoy as
      Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're not going to do it from Hogwarts unless we get Malfoy to
      come here with the Marauder's Map," Lupin whispered back. "Which,
      come to think of it, if he figures out we're here he may actually
      <em class="calibre7">do</em>. He wouldn't need Longbottom's cooperation that way.
      You and Sirius may be onto something here, Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They continued up the path towards the front doors of the
      school, Sirius leading the way with Ginny in his arms and Remus
      covering their tracks from the rear. Sirius stopped at the front
      steps, looking up at them. Snow had been cleared off the front
      steps and an area beyond them, so they were no longer standing in
      snow. "Now what?" Sirius whispered over his shoulder. "Ready to
      head inside?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There'll be students in the hallways," Remus warned.
      "Fortunately, unless the class times have changed we have several
      minutes before the next class ends." They ascended the steps and
      paused in front of the double oaken doors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Sirius reached toward the door handle, however, Remus hissed
      "Stop!" just loud enough for him to hear. "Don't open it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's wrong?" Sirius whispered. "We can sneak past a bunch of
      students, Moony!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not students — Aurors!" Remus whispered urgently. "There are
      several in the entrance hall, probably Disillusioned like us!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know?" Harry whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have detection charms to let me know when any Auror gets
      within 50 feet of me," Remus whispered in reply. "Malfoy has them
      watching me all the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what do we do <em class="calibre7">now</em>?" Sirius wanted to know. "This
      bird is starting to get heavy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to find an alternate entrance," Remus said. "I wonder
      if there are Aurors posted at the eastern entrance…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They made their way back down the steps and walked around the
      north side of the castle to the east side where the greenhouses
      were located. Remus had Sirius enter one of the greenhouses, which
      were several degrees warmer than the outside temperature, and told
      them to wait there while he checked out the east exit himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ending their Disillusionment spells, Harry found an old
      wheelbarrow in a corner and Transfigured it into a cot for Ginny;
      Sirius laid her down on it, then looked her over carefully. "She
      seems okay," he muttered. "I'm sure glad that potion Remus gave us
      didn't put <em class="calibre7">me</em> to sleep!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It made me drowsy," Harry said. "But I couldn't sleep until I'd
      talked to Remus about getting us hidden and letting him know about
      Voldemort. Too bad Tonks had to screw up our Fidelius on your
      house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ehh," Sirius shrugged. "I'm just glad she didn't go the way
      most of the Blacks went — to the Dark side, or at best becoming a
      blood-purity bigot. Mind, she might have cut her cousin Sirius a
      little bit more slack than she did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She might've wanted to cut Remus some slack," Harry
      commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Heh heh," Sirius chuckled. "You notice that, too? She called
      him 'Remus' at one point. She sounded like she fancied him a
      bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he <em class="calibre7">is</em> the Chief Warlock," Harry noted. "He'd be
      quite a catch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about <em class="calibre7">your</em> wife, Harry?" Sirius asked. "You
      haven't said much about her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Not much to say. She was Minister of
      Magic from 2004 on, until Malfoy (Voldemort, really) framed me for
      James Monroe's murder, which forced her to resign and leave public
      life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You two met at Hogwarts?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before, actually," Harry replied. "We met on the Hogwarts
      Express. Professor McGonagall told me to look for a girl named
      Hermione Granger on the train to Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked bemused. "Funny," he muttered. "I wouldn't have
      taken McGonagall for a matchmaker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "Neither would I, given the interesting time I
      had with her on our trip to Diagon Alley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your wife, or McGonagall?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed again, but before he could reply they heard
      Remus's voice outside the greenhouse. "Coming in," he said softly,
      and the door opened and closed. Remus appeared a moment later.
      "It's no good," he said at once. "They've got Aurors stationed at
      the east entrance as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Were they expecting us?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's hard to tell," Remus answered. "I don't think they
      <em class="calibre7">expected</em> us to come here — they're just covering the
      school as a contingency. Still, it's going to make it difficult to
      get inside. It will also be difficult to drop Mrs. Thomas off in
      the infirmary and make it to the Room of Requirement
      afterward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moony, there were <em class="calibre7">all sorts</em> of ways in and out of the
      castle when we were in school," Sirius objected. "Surely you can
      remember <em class="calibre7">some</em> of them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus looked thoughtful for several moments. "Well, there's that
      one-eyed witch statue near the Defense Against the Dark Arts
      classroom, it leads to the cellar of Honeydukes," he finally said.
      "And that mirror on the fourth floor has a passage that leads to
      the shed behind the Hog's Head Inn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need one a bit closer," Sirius argued. "I don't want to walk
      all the way to Hogsmeade then <em class="calibre7">back</em> to the castle,
      especially carrying someone! It's getting a bit tiring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can carry Ginny," Harry spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No you can't," Remus disagreed. "You're even weaker than Sirius
      is right now." He rubbed his chin thoughtfully. "Well, I know of
      one passage that's fairly close, but we hardly ever used it because
      of where it came out — in Hagrid's cabin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah," Sirius nodded, grinning. "That's how the big guy
      could make it to Dumbledore's office in a minute or so from the
      grounds — he had his own private passageway!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Best of all," Remus went on, "in the castle the entrance to the
      passage is behind a large picture that's about halfway between
      Dumbledore's office and the Room of Requirement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So all we have to do is sneak into Hagrid's cabin, find the
      secret entrance, and make our way into Hogwarts and then to the
      Room of Requirement," Harry finished, with an ironic smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Basically," Remus agreed, smiling as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then let's get going," Sirius, who was better at making ironic
      comments than inferring them, said. "After I have another minute or
      two to rest my arms, that is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks reappeared near the employee entrance to the Ministry, a
      shabby pub that had been closed and its windows boarded over for a
      few decades now. The building next to it was an accountancy shop;
      the gap between the two buildings looked too narrow for even a
      child to slip into, but when a witch or wizard approached it
      expanded by a couple of feet, allowing access down a corridor to
      the back of the pub, where a password-protected door guarded the
      room where most Ministry employees went to travel to the Ministry
      proper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks tapped the door with her wand, murmuring the password for
      the day, "International cooperation." The password changed every
      day for each employee — it was given out as each person left the
      Ministry. If you were sick or had a holiday you had to owl the
      Auror Department for your next day's password. The door opened and
      Tonks quickly slipped inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inside was a long, narrow room lined with a half-dozen
      fireplaces, allowing employees to Floo to the Atrium. She grabbed a
      pinch of Floo powder, threw it into the fireplace, which flared up
      with emerald green flames, and said clearly, "Ministry of Magic
      Atrium!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moments later she bolted from the Atrium fireplace, heading
      toward the elevators. It was probably too late to catch Black and
      Potter at Grimmauld Place (unless Remus persuaded them to stay,
      which she doubted), but that was just as well — getting any
      reasonable number of Aurors into Black's house through the Fidelius
      Charm Lupin had cast was going to be a <em class="calibre7">big</em> problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks was bouncing on her toes waiting for the elevator to make
      its interminable way to level one, where the Minister's office was
      located. She shot out of the elevator the moment the doors opened,
      heading straight for the Minister's office. The only problem she
      might have now was —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I help you, Auror Tonks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Goyle, you can let me past so I can talk to your boss,"
      Tonks sighed, knowing she would have to endure what Goyle thought
      passed for flirting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's been waiting for you to return," Goyle said casually. "It
      looks like you even beat Lupin back to the Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lupin's not coming back to the Ministry," Tonks snapped,
      curtly. "That's what I've got to talk to the Minister about. Are
      you going to let me in or what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, Tonksie, sure," Goyle grinned, then tapped a box sitting
      on the desk with his wand. "Auror Tonks to see you, sir," he said,
      in a now very businesslike tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Send her in," Malfoy's voice replied a moment later, and Goyle
      gestured toward the door with a smile (more of a leer, really).
      Tonks ignored him and walked into the Minister's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister's office was a lot different than it had been only
      a month ago, Tonks remembered, though she had been in this office
      more times in the past month than in all her previous 22 years of
      being an Auror. Malfoy tended to keep close tabs on Ministry
      personnel, including the Chief Warlock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy was reading something on his desk, a stack of parchments
      that he did not look up from as she came to an "at-ease" stance in
      front of his desk. No matter how urgent the news, one did not rush
      Minister Malfoy when he was working. The longer she stood there,
      however, the more Tonks wondered just how upset he was going to be
      when he found out the news she had for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't believe Lupin has returned yet," Malfoy said suddenly,
      without looking up at her. "You showing up before him leads me to
      think you have some interesting news for me. Do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, very interesting," Tonks said, feeling suddenly
      breathless. This was going to be difficult to explain — with
      Lupin's Fidelius Charm in effect, she could not say or otherwise
      communicate in any way the location of Black and Potter. "I
      followed Lupin to a place where he met with Harry Potter and Sirius
      Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy looked up at her sharply. "Where?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't say, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't say?" Malfoy echoed. "Can you explain, at least?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Fidelius is in effect, one that I was accidentally included
      in," Tonks answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're a Secret Keeper?" Malfoy surmised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir. I tried to take Black and Potter prisoner, but Lupin
      somehow figured out that I was inside his Fidelius when he cast it,
      he and the others were able to take me prisoner." Her hair went red
      at her final statement, mirroring her embarrassment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you were obviously able to escape," Malfoy added.
      "Otherwise you would not be here. Unless…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My identity code for today is
      Hippogriff-Nogtail-Billywig-Unicorn," Tonks immediately rattled
      off, anticipating Malfoy's next question. Aurors had to memorize a
      new identity code each day so they could prove they weren't being
      impersonated by a Metamorphmage (pretty rare) or Polyjuiced witch
      or wizard (much more likely).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what was your identity code for yesterday?" Malfoy
      continued. It was unlikely someone impersonating an Auror would
      think to get both today and yesterday's identity codes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hag-Banshee-Nundu-Ukrainian Ironbelly," Tonks recited. Malfoy
      nodded, convinced Tonks was who she said she was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think they're still where you left them?" Malfoy asked.
      He wasn't surprised when she shook her head; they would all have to
      be idiots to remain there after their Fidelius was breached, and
      Lupin, at least ,was no idiot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any idea where they might have gone?" he continued, but Tonks'
      response was again negative. That was disappointing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not many places they could go, though," Tonks offered. "To the
      Weasleys, maybe. I understand they own a house in Grimmauld Square.
      But if Lupin is helping them they could be out of the country by
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Malfoy mused, "but Potter won't be content to simply
      run away from his problems — he'll want to confront them head-on.
      He's always been that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy stood, his demeanor becoming crisp and businesslike.
      "Crabbe! Goyle!" he shouted. A few moments later both men were
      standing at attention on either side of Tonks. "Put all off-duty
      Auror and Hit Wizard teams on standby," Malfoy told them. "I
      already have teams stationed in certain key locations — if we hear
      of anything from them we're going to converge on that location like
      the wrath of Merlin. Meanwhile, I have a short list of people and
      places we need to watch for any unusual activity: Fred and George
      Weasley, Molly and Arthur Weasley, Gringotts, Bill Weasley and
      Ollivanders, and Ron Weasley. And Dean Thomas, too." The Weasley
      name had come up quite a few times in that short list, Tonks
      noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Minister," Crabbe said, and he and Goyle both strode from
      the room, leaving Tonks alone with Malfoy, who sat down at his desk
      and began rearranging stacks of parchment. After a few moments he
      seemed to remember Tonks was there and glanced up at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can go, Auror Tonks," he said dismissively. She had been
      considering asking him about what Potter had said about Voldemort,
      but decided against it. At best it would piss him off, and at
      worst…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, Potter <em class="calibre7">couldn't</em> be right about that, could he?
      But if Lupin believed him, what should she think about it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should I be on any of those surveillance teams, Minister?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy raised an eyebrow at her. "Did you hear me <em class="calibre7">tell</em>
      you you were on any of those teams, Auror?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er — no, sir," Tonks admitted. That had been a <em class="calibre7">bad</em>
      question, she berated herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you want me to let you know if Lupin returns, sir?" she went
      on, wondering what Malfoy would do if Lupin actually showed up at
      the Ministry now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I'm here, that's fine," Malfoy answered in a distracted
      tone. "But if we get even a whiff of Potter or Black I'll be out
      until further notice." Without looking up he pointed at the door.
      Tonks got the hint and left posthaste.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Back at her desk Tonks watched as the whirlwind of activity
      Malfoy's orders had generated slowly died down, as Auror Teams left
      for their assignments. Her hair was doing a cycle of black and gold
      (Hufflepuff's colors) as she realized she would be one of the few
      Aurors left at the Ministry along with the desk jockies and those
      too new to have proven themselves in the field just yet. Malfoy
      had, in effect, shunted her to one side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, there was one name that wasn't on that list, and Tonks
      suspected she hadn't heard what had been going on with Harry
      Potter. She would have to pay a quick visit and fill her in. Tonks
      stood, casually made her way to the lifts and down to the Atrium,
      then disappeared through an outgoing Floo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Rubeus Hagrid puffed contentedly on a pipe as he cut up
      tubers into a large iron pot sitting on the scrubbed table in the
      middle of his cabin. Hagrid's black beared had hints of salt and
      pepper in it, but he showed no sign of slowing down in his duties
      as groundskeeper for Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just outside his window, two pairs of Disillusioned eyes stared
      at him through the dusty glass. "How do you suggest we work this?"
      Harry whispered. "Just rush in and Stun him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a half-giant," Remus reminded him. "A Stunner won't stop
      him. A half-dozen probably wouldn't, either. Whatever we do, it's
      going to have to be pretty powerful magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, hurry up and think of something," Sirius whispered
      irritably. "This girl isn't getting any lighter — I'd like to drop
      her on Hagrid's bed and be done with her!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin put up a hand signaling for silence, then turned and
      looked at Sirius thoughtfully. "You know, Sirius, that's not a bad
      idea. Hagrid's always responded well when someone becomes sick or
      injured around him. Perhaps we can use that to our advantage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you suggesting?" Harry wanted to know. "That we walk
      into Hagrid's cabin and ask him to take care of Ginny?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre7">I</em> walk in," Lupin clarified. "He'll remember me
      as a past professor as well as the current Chief Warlock, and it's
      unlikely he's heard details about the breakout at Azkaban. Also,
      he's not much of a Malfoy supporter, from what I've heard. I think
      I can get him to take Mrs. Thomas to the infirmary. Once there,
      Madam Pomfrey is unlikely to let anyone remove her until she's
      well, and the headmaster will back her up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius nodded agreement, and a few moments later
      Hagrid looked up at the sudden knock at his door. A furious,
      high-pitched yipping also sounded throughout the cabin, and Hagrid
      muttered, "Al righ', Claw, keep yer shirt on, we'll see who it is."
      He stood and in just three steps was at the door, opening it to
      finding Remus Lupn holding the unconscious form of a red-headed
      woman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfesser Lupin!" Hagrid exclaimed. "I ain't seen you in a
      boarhound's age! What're yeh doing back at Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Hagrid," Lupin greeted him, his voice slightly strained.
      Sirius had been right — Ginny Thomas was heavier than she looked.
      "As you can see, I have a bit of a problem here — this woman is
      unconscious and I believe she's in need of medical help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, come in, come in, don' stand out there in the cold
      jawin'," Hagrid insisted, and watch as Lupin stepped inside,
      looking around the cabin. "Put 'er on my bed," Hagrid said, as the
      yipping started up again, and Lupin stepped over to the massive
      bed, laying Ginny's body on the quilt covering it. "Quiet, Claw!"
      Hagrid snapped, and the yipping cut off. "Sorry," he muttered.
      "Claw barks at ennyone he don't know." Lupin glanced around,
      finally seeing a very small dog, a Jack Russell terrier, staring up
      at him suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A bit of a change from your last dog," Lupin told Hagrid,
      smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeh," Hagrid nodded. "Well, after Fang… passed —" he said this
      with a catch in his throat. "I figgered I'd see how well a smaller
      dog would do here wit' me." Hagrid was scratching his chin as he
      stared at the woman on his bed. "Looks like one of the Weasleys,
      don't she? What happened to her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure," Lupin hedged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why dincha bring her up to the infirmary, then?" Hagrid wanted
      to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I found her not far from your cabin," Lupin answered. "I wanted
      to see if there was something I could do before taking her up to
      Madam Pomfrey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid cocked his head at Lupin. "So? Whadja figger out,
      Perfesser?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Lupin said, and took out his wand. He passed it over
      Ginny's unconscious form several times, then looked up at Hagrid.
      "She doesn't have any injuries, external or internal. I think she
      just passed out. I suppose we can take her to the infirmary and let
      Madam Pomfrey do a more detailed examination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I s'pose," Hagrid agreed, but there was a hesitation in his
      voice. "You know, Perfesser, this kinda looks like Ginny Weaseley —
      er, Thomas, I mean. I thought she was in Azkaban these days." He
      was giving Lupin a calculating look. "So whut's <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      goin' on here, Perfesser?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right, Hagrid," Lupin replied, "this <em class="calibre7">is</em> Ginny
      Thomas. I found her at my home over lunch, along with a note from
      Harry Potter asking me to take care of her, that she had been near
      death in Azkaban when he and Sirius Black escaped and she needed
      medical care. I gave her a potion to help her recover but she needs
      more time, and I'm afraid if I drop her off at St. Mungo's the
      Ministry will simply throw her back in prison, where she will die
      shortly thereafter. I think there were details of the crimes she
      was accused of that were not properly presented; I want an
      opportunity to reexamine them. Meanwhile, I believe she will be
      safer here at Hogwarts than anywhere else. I'd like <em class="calibre7">you</em> to
      bring her to Madam Pomfrey while I work on her case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Hagrid scratched his chin. "What happened to Black an'
      Harry Potter, then?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They had gone by the time I arrived home," Lupin said. "I don't
      know where they might have gone. They could be anywhere by
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeh, I s'pose," Hagrid agreed. "Well, I don' see the harm in
      takin' her to Madam Pomfrey. Only —" and the half-giant looked
      around the room conspiratorially before continuing, "I gotta short
      cut inter the castle, Perfesser, and I'd 'preciate it if yeh didn't
      tell ennyone about it, if yeh catch my drift."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not, Hagrid," Lupin agreed immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hagrid nodded solemnly, then pulled the chairs around his
      scrubbed wooden table out from beneath it and slid the table over
      against a wall, exposing the floor beneath it. Hagrid went to over
      to his chest of drawers and fished around in the top drawer for a
      few moments, finally coming up with an iron ring that he slipped
      onto his index finger. With a grin toward Lupin, he went back where
      the table had been, leanind over and touching a knot in the floor
      with the ring. He pulled upward, and a large trap door suddenly
      appeared, swinging upward to reveal a staircase leading
      downward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kinda handy when I need a quick word wit' the Headmaster,"
      Hagrid commented, going over to the bed and picking up Ginny. He
      walked back to the opening, then looked at Lupin. "Are yeh goin'
      with us, Perfesser? Yeh might need ter explain to Madam
      Pomfrey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll be fine, Hagrid," Lupin assured him. "I need to get back
      to the Ministry and help continue the search for Black and Potter.
      Hagrid nodded and began walking down the steps. It seemed
      improbable that he would be able to fit down the passageway but
      within moments he was out of sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," Remus commented to himself, then went over and
      opened the front door. The sound of footsteps were heard, then a
      pair of cracking sounds as Harry and Sirius appeared, their
      Disillusionment Charms dissipating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another round of furious yipping as Claw objected to
      their presence, but Sirius looked at the terrier and growled, "Go
      lie down, pup," and the small dog retreated to his basket, watching
      them balefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was easy enough," Harry murmured, looking down the trap
      door into the passageway. "So now we just follow Hagrid and head
      for the Room of Requirement at the other end, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll give him a minute to get further along," Remus suggested.
      "He might get suspicious if he heard someone following him." A
      minute later they walked slowy down the steps into the passageway
      leading to the seventh floor of the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The passageway was larger than expected; it could easily
      accommodate someone Hagrid's size, and there were glowing balls of
      light every dozen yards or so that lighted their way. Lupin paused
      at one to examine it more carefully. "Looks like a permanent Light
      Charm cast onto a glass ball," he told Harry and Sirius. Simple,
      but effective. I wonder how long these have been here — Hagrid
      couldn't have created them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If this was so he could get in the castle quickly," Sirius
      suggested, "one of the headmasters may have done it for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Remus agreed. "Probably Dumbledore. I don't think
      Headmaster Dippet would have — he believed Hagrid summoned the
      Monster of Slytherin and that it killed Abigail Myrtle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought we were being quiet so Hagrid wouldn't hear us,"
      Harry interjected softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cast a Silencing Charm, just in case," Remus said, smiling.
      "I know Sirius just can't keep his mouth shut."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, right, Moony," Sirius muttered. "Thanks for your
      support."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They came to steps leading upward and followed them for a long
      way until they arrived at a blank wall. Remus cast a spell
      detecting for living beings on the other side; finding none, he
      slowly pushed on the wall. It swung away, revealing a seventh-floor
      corridor. He motioned for Sirius and Harry to follow him
      through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dis must be dey place," Sirius quipped as he looked around the
      corridor. "Now how do we find the Room of Requirement from
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It won't be hard," Remus said. He pointed in one direction
      along the corridor. "Follow me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks appeared in the foyer of the TBC building. The foyer was
      nearly empty except for a woman and a small child walking out of an
      elevator toward the front exit. The young boy was staring at Tonks
      as if he'd just seen a woman appear out of thin air (which perhaps
      he had). "Mummy!" he cried, trying to point at Tonks as his mother
      hurried toward the exit. "That lady with the pink hair! She —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not polite to point, Sidney," his mother said crossly to
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Mummy! She was just <em class="calibre7">there</em>, like mag—" the rest of
      his statement was cut off as his mother pulled him out the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks looked around the lobby. According to reports filed a few
      months ago, there was a separate elevator that led to the Potter
      apartment. After Potter's arrest, the door had been enchanted so
      that only wizards could see it, to keep anyone from stumbling upon
      it. As Tonks concentrated, a section of the wall suddenly expanded
      a few feet, causing a door to appear. Tonks walked over to the
      door, cast <em class="calibre7">Alohomora</em> on it, and walked through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beyond the door was a hallway, and a few yards down another
      door, which Tonks magically unlocked as well, stepping through to
      find a small room with nothing but an elevator door inside. She
      pushed the button next to the doors and they opened immediately.
      She stepped inside and hit the button marked "PH."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The elevator began moving, irritatingly slow to anyone used to
      Apparation or Portkeys. When the doors finally opened again, she
      stepped into another small room, this one containing a fireplace
      and another door. The fireplace had been disconnected from the Floo
      Network, Tonks knew. In fact the whole Potter apartment had been
      "de-magicked" almost to the point of Muggle-tude: no Extension
      Charms, no wards, nothing to warn former Minister Granger of
      anyone's approach, not even a Muggle, assuming a Muggle could get
      through the wards leading up to this point. The Ministry (read:
      Draco Malfoy) had effectively cut Hermione Granger-Potter off from
      the rest of the wizarding community.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that Tonks had a dragon in that fight; it was up to the
      Wizengamot and the current Minister how they treated their former
      Ministers of Magic. But, Tonks reasoned, if anyone had an idea what
      Harry Potter might do or where he might go after breaking out of
      Azkaban, it was his wife.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks knocked on the door and waited nearly a minute before
      pulling her wand to check for anyone on the other side. There was
      nothing but a corridor leading to another door. The door wasn't
      even locked. She went through it, walking down the corridor to the
      next door, and knocked again. Again, nothing, and she cast her
      detection spell again. This time she sensed a normal apartment
      living area that seemed empty, but there was a human presence
      further inside. Technically, she was trespassing, but… Tonks
      unlocked the door and stepped inside, following where her detection
      spell told her the human was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Granger-Potter was in bed, curled up and seemingly
      asleep. It was the middle of the afternoon, Tonks remembered; how
      long had the former Minister been sleeping? "Minister?" she said,
      softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not the Minister anymore." Hermione's voice was dull,
      listless. "Whoever you are, go away. I don't want to speak to
      anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Auror Tonks, ma'am," Tonks offered. "You remember me,
      don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several seconds of silence. Then, "Yes," Hermione's voice came
      from beneath the covers, "but I still don't want to speak to you.
      So go away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have news about your husband."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another moment of silence. "What did he do, break out
      of Azkaban?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks was a bit taken aback by that. "Actually, he did, ma'am.
      And Sirius Black escaped with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, the man who killed his parents? That seems unlikely. And
      how do you know that, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…" Tonks didn't really want to admit how she knew,
      especially to a former Minister, but — "Well, they sort of captured
      me and told me, before I escaped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione slowly sat up. She was thinner than Tonks remembered
      her, and there were lines on her face that hadn't been there a
      month ago. She was giving Tonks a penentrating look. <em class="calibre7">That</em>
      Tonks remembered. "What are you doing here, again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to find them, ma'am," Tonk said matter-of-factly. "We
      thought — well, <em class="calibre7">I</em> thought, you might have some idea where
      they might have gone to hide."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where did you find them first?" Hermione asked, rubbing sleep
      out of her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't tell you, ma'am. It's protected by a Fidelius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how do <em class="calibre7">you</em> happen to know? Why would you be
      included in a Fidelius to hide Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By accident, ma'am. Chief Warlock Lupin cast the spell without
      knowing I was present until it was too late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Remus</em> was part of this as well?" That seemed to
      surprise Hermione most of all. Hermione's eyes narrowed
      suspiciously. "That doesn't seem credible, Auror. Remus Lupin has
      been an exemplary Chief Warlock for many years now. It seems
      unlikely he'd help Harry <em class="calibre7">or</em> Sirius Black break out of
      Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree, Minister," Tonks nodded. "But it may have had
      something to do with Lupin's past friendship with Sirius Black.
      They apparently attended Hogwarts together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry told me they had," Hermione added. "But Sirius Black went
      into Azkaban in 1981 for the murder of Peter Pettigrew — that's… 35
      years ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry claims Pettigrew visited him in prison before he broke
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head slowly. "<em class="calibre7">Harry</em> said that? I
      think he must've hallucinated that. He's been in Azkaban a month
      now. Do you really expect me to believe something like that,
      without proof? Do <em class="calibre7">you</em> believe any of it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know <em class="calibre7">what</em> to believe, ma'am," Tonks said,
      honestly. "It seemed like Potter believed what he was saying, and
      Lupin believed him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry can be very persuasive," Hermione said. "Believe me, I
      know that. But… what else did they tell you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Tonks hesitated, but she needed to get the former
      Minister engaged in this manhunt, make her want to find Potter and
      Black. "He said that Voldemort was still alive, and that he was
      possessing Draco Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at her for several moments. "And do you believe
      <em class="calibre7">that</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, not really," Tonks conceded. "There's a spell that might
      prove the Minister is possessed, but I don't think anyone but the
      Chief Warlock has authorization to use it on him, and Remus has
      already lost his objectivity in this case by helping Harry and
      Black. But if we can find Harry, get him to argue his case before
      the Wizengamot again, we might have a basis for testing Malfoy for
      possession."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione raised an eyebrow. "That sounds like a thinly veiled
      attempt to get me to predict where Harry might go to hide out." She
      gestured tiredly toward the apartment. "Obviously, he's not here —
      I assume you've checked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, ma'am," Tonks conceded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And he probably would go to any of his friends like the
      Weasleys," Hermione went on, like she was trying to work out this
      puzzle for herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Tonks volunteered. "They did break Ginny Thomas out as
      well. Harry insists she, too, is innocent of the deaths of the
      three Aurors she's convicted of murdering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny, too, huh?" Hermione ran her hands through her disheveled
      hair, clearing it out of her eyes. "<em class="calibre7">That's</em> interesting.
      Well, I'm sure Malfoy has them under surveillance in case Harry or
      Ginny shows up, but Harry would expect that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, ma'am," Tonks shook her head doubtfully. "Harry
      didn't seem too sharp during the time I observed him. It looked
      more like he was letting Remus take the lead on what they should
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you check back at the location where you found them?"
      Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not yet," Tonks admitted. "But it seems certain they would have
      left once they knew their protection was blown."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you can't be certain theyaren't still there," Hermione
      pointed out, reasonably. Tonks realized she was correct.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I ought to go back and check," she said, "just in case." She
      turned to leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Hermione said. She tossed off the covers and threw her
      legs over the side of the bed. She was still dressed in the clothes
      she had worn last night. "I'm going with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't allow that, ma'am —" Tonks began to object.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You shouldn't even be in my apartment without Minister Malfoy's
      permission," Hermione cut her off, standing. She picked up her wand
      from the bedside table and passed it over herself, straightening
      and cleaning her clothes. "<em class="calibre7">Do</em> you have permission to be
      here, Auror Tonks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks didn't answer. "Didn't think so," Hermione went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't get you through the Fidelius," Tonks bluffed. "I'm not
      the primary Secret Keeper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Portkey can," Hermione replied, calling her bluff. "It's a
      loophole in the spell — Portkeys weren't invented when the Fidelius
      was first created. Sorry, Tonks, I'm going with you whether you
      like it or not, if you want my help finding Harry
      Potter-Evans-Verres."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks nodded. She <em class="calibre7">did</em> want to find Harry
      Potter-Whatever-Whatever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, Sirius and Remus moved down the seventh-floor corridor in
      the direction Remus had pointed out. Sirius was looking around,
      smiling happily. "Almost feels like a classs reunion," he said to
      Remus. "With Harry here taking James's place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They aren't the same person," Remus reminded him. "Harry is a
      lot different than James was, though I'd estimate he's about as
      smart as James was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know about that," Harry said over his shoulder. "I had
      some weird shit go down with me and James Monroe before I ended up
      in Azkaban. My Patronus has helped me remember a lot of stuff, but
      I've got a ways to go before I get back to the way I was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry about that, Harry," Sirius said confidently. "We'll
      help you get back to normal. There's a lot the Room of Requirement
      can do for you, I'd wager."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll see," Remus said in a more non-commital tone. "The Room
      of Requirement will be just around this corner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They rounded the corner, looking for the tapestry of Barnabas
      the Barmy, knowing the Room of Requirement's entrance was just
      opposite it. What they did not expect to find, however, was the
      Headmaster of Hogwarts standing in the middle of the corridor
      waiting for them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He did not look happy to see them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Neville Longbottom said, in a rather irritated tone.
      "The prodigal wizards have returned to the scene of the crime." His
      wand was out and held at the ready, in a position that could either
      initiate offensive spells or react with defensive ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who's this kid?" Sirius asked in a condescending tone. "He
      hardly looks old to have graduated from Hogwarts, much less teach
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's the Headmaster," Harry said, <em class="calibre7">sotto voce</em>. "Let us
      do the talking, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know who <em class="calibre7">you</em> are," Neville responded. "Sirius Black,
      convicted of thirteen murders, including the wizard Peter
      Pettigrew, in 1981 and sentenced to life in Azkaban. The question
      at the moment is, what are you doing here with the Chief Warlock?"
      Neville's gaze shifted fractionally to Lupin. "Remus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need asylum," Remus answered at once. "We have new
      information in Harry and Sirius's cases that could exonerate them,
      and we may also be able to prove that Lord Voldemort —" Neville
      frowed at the name but did not flinch "— is not dead but is
      possessing the body of another wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?" Neville asked. "Wait," he went on. "Don't tell me, I'm
      keen to guess. Let's see, could it be — Minister Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually," Remus nodded. "That's exactly who we believe he's
      possessoing —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy's on his way here," Neville cut over him. "I just
      informed him that you three are here, and Ginny Thomas as
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville!" Harry cried out disbelievingly. "You haven't even
      heard out side!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not the Wizengamot," Neville informed him. "I'm not taking
      sides, I'm making my school safe for my students!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How'd you figure out we were here?" Lupin asked, as his eyes
      quickly scanned the corridor around them and Neville. They would
      have to do something quickly before Malfoy arrived and the school
      went into Auror Lockdown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My security system," Neville replied, "let me know the moment
      you entered the grounds. I've been tracking you for minutes now,
      waiting for you to make your move. Clever of you to have Hagrid
      take Ginny Thomas to the infirmary so you could follow him along
      his secret passageway into the castle. Once you left the exit I
      knew exactly where you were heading, and I made sure I got here
      before you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of the perks of being the Headmaster," Harry muttered.
      Neville controlled the Anti-Apparition spells within the school and
      grounds; he could turn them on or off whenever he wanted. Very
      likely he was keyed into the wards themselves, so they didn't
      prevent <em class="calibre7">him</em> from Appariating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Neville agreed. "So let's just settle in wait for Malfoy
      and his Aurors to show up — this time for you, not to make trouble
      in the school like the last time you were here, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus held up both hands placatingly. "Alright, alright Neville.
      We're not going to make any trouble, we'll just wait —" Remus's
      hand suddenly twitched in a quick gesture. Neville's wand went
      flying out of his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the same moment Sirius and Harry's wands were both out.
      Neville's hands were moving as well and both Stunners they sent at
      him were deflected away, though Neville staggered back at the
      impacts on his wandless shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus, meanwhile, was reaching up to snatch Neville's wand from
      the air and it spun toward him, but it suddenly stopped and
      reversed direction, flying back into Neville's wand hand.
      "Impressive," Harry muttered to himself, wishing he'd studied more
      wandless magic, and tried to Banish the wand, but Neville had
      already caught it. Remus's wand was moving in another spell gesture
      but before he could complete the spell Neville Disapparated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well, I was right about the wards</em>, Harry thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to leave," Remus said urgently. "If they can track us
      anywhere we go in the castle —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But not in the Room of Requirement!" Harry argued. "We can use
      it to figure something out before Malfoy gets here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not enough time!" Remus disagreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where else can we go, Moony?" Sirius asked matter-of-factly. He
      pointed down the corridor in Remus's direction. "Check for
      Disillusioned wizards — I'll do the same in the other direction.
      Harry, you get the door open!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hurriedly began pacing back in front of the blank wall
      opposite Barnabas the Barmy's tapestry. "We need a place to hide
      ourselves," he muttered beneath his breath as he quick-stepped back
      and forth. "We need a place no one can find us, a place we can
      figure out what to do next!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as a heavy oaken door appeared in the wall as Harry
      completed his third pass, a Stunner richocheted off the tapestry as
      Sirius blocked it. "It's open!" Harry shouted, grabbing the door
      and jerking it open. He, Sirius and Remus disappeared through it
      just as two more Stunners hit the door from opposite directions and
      whined away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's breath was coming in short gasps as he pulled the door
      closed and let go of it. He turned back to Sirius and Remus,
      smiling triumphantly. Sirius shared his grin but Remus looked less
      than happy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we're inside," he said to Harry. "And now they know right
      where we are. I hope you're ready for some siege warfare."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Beats the alternative," Sirius pointed out. "I'd rather be
      hiding in here than caught and back in Azkaban out there. Now,
      d'you think we can get some food up in here? I'm beginning to feel
      a bit peckish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lupin shook his head. "Sirius, it's a long time since we were
      students here and could coax the house-elves to bring us food from
      the kitchens. I'm afraid we're going to have to make do with wand
      water and some protein bars I have in my robes until we come up
      with a solution to our problems."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then we need to remember just what this room could do when we
      asked, Moony," Sirius insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remember," Harry muttered. "That's a good idea, Sirius." He
      held up his wand and began the motions for a certain spell.
      "<em class="calibre7">Expecto Patronum</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dark hallway of number 12, Grimmauld Place erupted into a
      sudden explosion of color and whirling air as two people suddenly
      appeared there, both of them falling as their feet touched the
      hallway floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head and decided to wait a moment before
      standing. <em class="calibre7">Well, that's one question solved</em>, she thought to
      herself, watching as Auror Tonks quickly jumped to her feet,
      embarrassed to have fallen in front of the Minister (well,
      <em class="calibre7">former</em> Minister, who'd incidentally fallen as well). Then,
      "What in the world is all that <em class="calibre7">screeching</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks covered her ears. "It's Black's mother!" she shouted at
      Hermione. "Her portrait, really! She screams like that whenever
      she's disturbed!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was covering her ears as well. "How do we shut her up?"
      she yelled back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks took out her wand. "Hang on a sec," she growled, and
      walked off down the hallway. Hermione jumped to her feet and
      followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Filth! Scum! Freaks!" she could hear an old woman screaming.
      "Begone from the house of my fathers —" the screams suddenly cut
      off. By the time Hermione caught up with Tonks, she was gesturing
      at a pair of dusty velvet curtains that drew shut over a life-size
      painting of a batty-looking old woman—a woman whose eyes were now
      covered in a blindfold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's that," Tonks muttered, then turned to Hermione. "Well,
      Minister, welcome to number 12, Grimmauld Place — the Black
      Family's ancestral home. Since you arrived with me and the Portkey,
      I should be able to tell you this is where Harry and Sirius Black
      were holed up with Remus Lupin. And obviously, I just <em class="calibre7">did</em>
      tell you," she added, smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Hermione agreed. "What we need to know, however, is
      where they are right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope they left some clues as to where they might have gone,"
      Tonks explained. "Let me show you where they held me before I
      escaped." Hermione followed the Auror down the stairs to the
      kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I disguised myself as Chief Warlock Lupin and brought them
      groceries, something the real Remus said he would do," Tonks told
      Hermione. "I had hoped to fix Harry and Black some stew laced with
      Sleeping Potion and bring them to the Ministry to be returned to
      Azkaban, but Remus returned unexpectedy and exposed my disguise.
      They captured me and Harry explained he thought that Minister
      Malfoy was really Voldemort and that he'd framed Harry and the
      Thomas woman for crimes he'd committed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh my god," Hermione sighed. "I can't believe Harry would try
      to resurrect that Dark wizard again! How was he going to prove
      Voldemort was still alive <em class="calibre7">this</em> time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He has some idea that an artifact called the Marauder's Map
      could prove that Malfoy and Voldemort were inhabiting the same body
      if he could lure Malfoy to Hogwarts with the Map," Tonks said,
      sounding doubtful. "Harry even wanted me to break into the
      Minister's office to look for the Map!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shrugged resignedly. "Once Harry latches onto an idea
      he hangs on with the tenacity of a bulldog. But," she added,
      thoughtfully, "that could be an indication of where he is right
      now…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks saw it at once. "You mean Hogwarts? That would not be the
      smartest place for him to be. You can't Apparate or Portkey in or
      out or anywhere within the grounds, and the Floos are restricted.
      Plus, I understand there's a security system that can track anyone
      on the grounds the same way the Marauder's Map is supposed to do.
      Potter would be foolish to go there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Hermione replied, "but Harry would find some way to
      turn all that into an advantage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he can do <em class="calibre7">that</em>," Tonks retorted disbelievingly, "we
      should have made him an Auror. What the <em class="calibre7">hell</em> —?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A brillian silver light had suddenly illuminated the room. Tonks
      had spun around toward the source of the light, her wand
      instinctively coming up to protect the Minister. "<em class="calibre7">You</em>
      again!" she gasped, recognizing the new arrival. "What are you
      doing here <em class="calibre7">now</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had recognized the form as well. But she was staring at
      Tonks. "Do you know what this is?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Potter's Patronus — or so he told me," Tonks answered,
      still holding her wand at the ready. "I don't know if it's here for
      you or me, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled. "No offence, Auror Tonks, but I doubt Harry
      knew who you were before he captured you earlier today. I think
      it's here to bring me a message from Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am," the Patronus nodded. "But my message is for both of you,
      seeing that you are here together in Sirius's home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blinked. "What?" she said blankly. "How could a
      Patronus know anyone was with me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can see it plainly enough, Hermione," the Patronus answered.
      "I am capable of more than simply parroting messages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione frowned. "Harry never told me his Patronus
      could act independently of him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Until he cast me for the first time in years, earlier today,"
      the Patronus replied, "he was unaware of it himself, or of the
      other things I am capable of doing. He has sent me to you in the
      hopes that I might be able to help you understand as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronus reached out a silver hand toward Hermione, who
      froze as Tonks tried to come up with a spell to stop it should the
      Patronus hurt the Minister in some way. The glowing fingertips
      touched Hermione's forehead, and her eyes widened as memories
      suddenly formed in her recollections. "Oh. Oh my <em class="calibre7">god</em>," she
      whispered. "It's unbelievable, but it has to be true. Tonks, we
      have to go to Hogwarts immediately!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the Patronus shook his head. "That would not be advisable.
      Harry wants you to go to the Ministry immediately and call for an
      emergency meeting of the Wizengamot so they can be assembled when
      he returns to the Ministry with Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks lowered her wand. "Is that where Potter's at?" she asked
      Hermione. "Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He and Remus and Sirius Black as well," Hermione confirmed.
      "Malfoy and Aurors will be on their way their as well. We can't let
      Malfoy take Harry — if he does we'll never see him or Black again.
      And they're all innocent, Tonks! It's Malfoy who's behind all this
      — or really, Voldemort!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But —" the Patronus said, looking back and forth between the
      two women. They seemed to be ignoring him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Tonks said ironically. But it would remain to be seen
      whether Malfoy was acting strangely or not — they would have to
      bring Potter and Black before the Wizengamot to get this nightmare
      cleared up legally and get the allegations Remus planned to make
      against Malfoy dropped. "Okay, then, let's go. We should do this
      outside," she added, then grabbed an umbrella from the troll's leg
      umbrella stand. "This should make a good Portkey." She and Hermione
      exited the front door and moments later had disappeared in a whirl
      of wind and color.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's Patronus stared at the spot they had disappeared from.
      "That did not work out as planned," it said, then vanished
      itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minister Malfoy and a squad of Aurors burst into the entrance
      hall, Malfoy barking orders before the doors were out of his
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All Disillusioned Aurors drop their charms, be prepared to
      converge on Potter's location once it's ascertained. Where's the
      Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville appeared in the middle of the entrance hall. Seeing
      Malfoy, he strode toward him. "Potter, Black and Lupin are on the
      seventh floor near the Room of Requirement. They are probably
      inside by now." He looked upward. "Security, where is Harry Potter
      right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter cannot be located," the cool female voice replied.
      "His last location was on the seventh floor near the —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nevermind," Neville snapped. "I know where he was." To Malfoy
      he said, "Well, I reported to you the moment I knew he was here,
      but if he's inside the Room of Requirement I don't know what we can
      do short of waiting until he and the others run out of food and
      water. And if they brought either with them it could be a long time
      before that happens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The front doors flew open again, and Hermione and Tonks ran into
      the entrance hall. Malfoy opened his mouth but Hermione cut him
      off. "Don't give me that look, Draco!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Call me Minister," Draco said, curtly. "And how do you know
      Potter's here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He sent me a message that couldn't be faked, so don't try to
      lie to me about that, <em class="calibre7">Minister</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I won't lie to you," he said, calmly. "In fact, I'm glad
      you're here. I think it will simplify my negotiations with our
      three fugitives quite a bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that supposed to mean, Minister?" Tonks asked, not
      liking the tone Malfoy had adopted. Things were starting to feel
      strange.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It means Mrs. Granger-Potter is going to help me talk Potter
      out of the Room of Requirement," Malfoy said, evenly. "And from
      there we'll see that he gets his day in court." He smiled at
      Herminoe. "I'm sure that's what you want, isn't it, Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione decided she <em class="calibre7">definitely</em> didn't like Malfoy
      calling her by her first name. "Call me Granger," she said shortly.
      "And let's go get Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I'm not asking for a damn <em class="calibre7">banquet</em>," Sirius was
      complaining to the house-elf who had appeared after Sirius spent
      several minutes telling the Room that he wanted something to eat.
      "Just something simple — say, like roast beef and potatoes — maybe
      some corn or peas, and some butterbeer would be nice, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Noddy is very sorry, sir," the house-elf was pulling his ears
      as he spoke — he was not comfortable with the orders he'd been
      given, but orders they were. "Headmaster has said you are not to be
      brought any food from Hogwarts kitchens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius folded his arms, frowning down at the house-elf, who was
      practically groveling under him. "That's not being very
      house-elf-like," he said, shaking his head with disappointment.
      "Aren't you supposed to do what's asked of you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Noddy wants to, sir!" the house-elf looked frantic now. "But
      orders is orders!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what if I <em class="calibre7">order</em> you to bring me some food?" Sirius
      growled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then Noddy will have to punish himself <em class="calibre7">most</em> severely
      for disobeying," the house-elf said, miserably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Lupin looked over at Black from where he and Harry
      were discussing their situation. "Don't torment the poor fellow.
      You know he has to obey Longbottom's orders above all else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Sirius snarled, frustrated. He waved a hand dismissively
      at the elf. "Go on, then, get back to your kitchen." Noddy
      gratefully disappeared with a <em class="calibre7">crack</em> and Sirius joined his
      fellow fugitives. "So what's the plan now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same as it was before," Harry answered plaintively. "Wait until
      Malfoy shows up then force a meeting of the Wizengamot so we can
      prove he's possessed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's all going to work out fine," Sirius said
      pessimistically. "They'll probably charge me with the rat's murder
      as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remus thinks he can force the issue with Malfoy," Harry
      explained. "The Chief Warlock still controls the Wizengamot, not
      the Minister of Magic. If Malfoy refuses to be tested for
      possession he's going to lose a lot of support in the
      Wizengamot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or so you hope," Sirius shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's pretty cut and dried," Remus added, confidently. "Malfoy
      is already on shaky ground — he hasn't assigned a new Head Auror to
      take his place now that he's Minister. Some in the Wizengamot see
      that as a power grab."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what do his <em class="calibre7">supporters</em> say?" Harry wanted to
      know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus smiled wanly. "That his first choice would have been
      Hermione Granger-Potter, but since she retired from the Ministry
      he's had a hard time finding someone qualified for the job. That
      much, at least, is politics-as-usual. But after a month that excuse
      is getting a bit thin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius turned to Harry. "So where'd your shiny doppleganger get
      off to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I sent it to tell Hermione to go to the Ministry and call the
      Wizengamot in for an emergency meeting," Harry replied. "I think
      it's coming back now — I can feel it, sort of…" a moment later the
      Room was illuminated in silver light as the Patronus appeared next
      to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She did not listen," the Patronus said, gravely. "She comes
      here, instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, dammit!" Harry swore. "What does she think she's going to
      do <em class="calibre7">here</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"POTTER." An amplified voice boomed through the walls of the
      Room. "CAN YOU HEAR ME?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Draco's here," Remus said, with false cheer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry agreed, sourly. He turned to his Patronus. "Go
      see what he wants us to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," the Patronus turned and walked through the wall. Harry
      watched it disappear, then tilted his head thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," he murmured. "I wondered who was out there, and I
      can see them through the Patronus! They've brought quite an array
      of Aurors to take us in." His expression fell. "Hermione's out
      there, too. I don't think I like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are they saying to you — to your Patronus?" Remus asked
      anxiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy is demanding that we all leave the Room of Requirement
      and surrender our wands immediately." He listened a moment.
      "Hermione is demanding that we all be taken to the Most Ancient
      Hall of the Wizengamot to hear new information in our cases. Malfoy
      doesn't like that — he wants us back in Azkaban before he'll
      convene a hearing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course he does," Sirius muttered. "If we go back to Azkaban
      we'll never get that hearing, will we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most likely not," Harry agreed. "Hermione is saying essentially
      the same thing, a bit more diplomatically, though. Crabbe is trying
      to shut her up — holy crap, that Tonks woman just pulled her wand
      on him! That was pretty gutsy of her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe we should get out there," Remus suggested quickly.
      "Perhaps our presence will defuse that situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Out of the frying pan and into the fire," Sirius snorted. "But
      what the hell — what've we got to lose now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't sure he wanted that answered, but he had to do
      something to protect Hermione. If she pushed Draco too far now
      there was no telling what he would do, possessed by Voldemort or
      not! "Let's go," he said, and the three men walked out into the
      corridor beyond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The corridor was nearly full of people. Besides Malfoy and
      Hermione there were Crabbe and Goyle, and behind them stood Tonks,
      wand still out but no longer pointed at Crabbe. On the other side
      of the corridor were three Aurors Harry didn't recognize; one was
      an older man whose left hand had been replaced with a hook. The
      other two were younger Aurors, one male and one female. All of them
      looked angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, we're here," Harry said to Malfoy. "What's next?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surrender your wands," Malfoy said again. "You and Black are
      guilty of escaping from Azkaban. In addition, you've destroyed
      valuable Ministry assets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We made a few holes in your precious walls," Harry began,
      dismissively, but Draco cut him off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I mean the Dementors you destroyed. Only a few survived
      your onslaught."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared in frank surprise and no small amount of — well,
      horror. "You've got to be kidding, Malfoy! Those things are —
      blights on the world! The sooner we're rid of all of them the
      better!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you admit it," one of the nameless Aurors spoke up. "You
      destroyed nearly one hundred Dementors when you broke out of
      Azkaban!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I'd do it again!" Harry declared forcefully. "How many
      people have they destroyed over the years? Not just at Azkaban, but
      over the centuries across Britain and Europe? It's like you're
      defending bubonic plague!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nevertheless," Malfoy said, with no emotion in his voice. "You
      will be held accountable for them." His voice turned crisp as he
      continued. "I've also been told you wish to level charges at
      <em class="calibre7">me</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would be me, Minister," Remus said, taking a step toward
      Draco. Crabbe and Goyle's wands were instantly on him, and Remus
      stopped, keeping his wand pointed toward the floor. "I think we
      should determine whether Harry's allegations that you've been
      possessed have any merit, and that such determination should be
      done before the full Wizengamot. Immediately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rolled his eyes. "I'm sure you'd like to find a way to
      discredit me, Chief Warlock — that's been on your agenda since I
      became Minister, obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a minute," Tonks spoke up. "I've never seen any evidence
      he's been trying to do that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut it, you," Crabbe growled at her. "Nobody's talking to
      you." Malfoy put up a hand and Crabbe said no more as Tonks
      glowered at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no problem submitting to such a check," Malfoy said to
      Lupin. "But it will be at the Wizengamot's convenience, not yours,
      Chief Warlock. In the meantime, Potter and Black will be returned
      to Azkaban, and I will be bringing charges of my own for your part
      in aiding with their escape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He didn't have anything to do with that!" Tonks piped up again.
      "He was contacted after the fact, not before it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have evidence that suggests otherwise," Malfoy retorted. "And
      you have het to file your reports on the Chief Warlock's
      whereabouts when he was out of the Ministry, Auror Tonks." Tonks
      jaw dropped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius, standing right behind Harry, leaned close to his ear and
      whispered, "I don't like where this is going. Malfoy seems
      hell-bent on sending us back to Azkaban without a hearing. And
      these Aurors all seem to want that, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can you tell that?" Harry whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When the only people you talk to for decades are pissed-off,
      burned out Aurors, Harry, you get good at reading their moods."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's completely unacceptable, Draco," Hermione was saying as
      Sirius finished his whispered comment. "If there are new facts in
      the case, the Wizengamot has an obligation to hear them before
      returning the prisoners to prison! We've had that protocol in
      effect for over a decade now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since you became Minister," Malfoy finished dryly. "I remember.
      You pushed them through when it became obvious you couldn't get the
      Dementors removed from Azkaban — the Wizengamot wants prisoners
      kept on a shorter leash than you like.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But in this case the 'facts' you refer to are nothing more than
      a wild attempt by the prisoners to avoid their just punishments as
      well as the extra punishment they will receive for their breakout
      attempt —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Breakout <em class="calibre7">success</em>, you mean," Sirius said with a grin.
      "We kicked some major ass back there." The three Aurors reacted to
      that, muttering darkly about whose ass would get kicked next.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough of this!" Malfoy said loudly. "Potter! Black! Drop your
      wands or you will be disarmed and immediately removed back to
      Azkaban!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Hermione shouted. "Harry, don't give up your wand! This
      needs to go to the Wizengamot before anything —" Her voice cut off
      suddenly as Goyle grabbed her and pulled her back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goyle!? You— <em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>!" Tonks put a Stunner into
      Goyle's back and he crumpled to the floor, pulling Hermione on top
      of him. At the same moment Crabbe pushed Malfoy behind him and
      pointed his wand at Tonks. On the other side of the corridor the
      three Aurors brought up their wands, pointing at Tonks, and fired
      Stunners at her. Tonks, who'd been concentrating on Crabbe, was
      knocked off her feet and hit the floor, unconscious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop! Stop! Stop!" Lupin was shouting, both hands raised high
      and waving to get everyone's attention—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">— but Malfoy was shouting at the same moment "Don't let them get
      away!" and pointing at Harry and Sirius, who'd both backed up
      against the corridor wall, wands up but not aimed toward anyone.
      Hermione was struggling to stand again, trying to move toward
      Harry, but Crabbe and Malfoy were blocking her way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Disarm them!" Crabbe shouted at the three Aurors, who
      immediately trained their wands on Harry, Sirius and Remus. Harry's
      wand flew from his hand, as did Sirius's, but Remus held onto
      his.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>!" Crabbe shouted, and a red bolt burst from
      his wand toward Remus, who easily blocked it. The three Aurors all
      cast Stunners at Lupin, but he blocked all three without
      difficulty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one moved for several seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scanned the corridor, looking for his wand, but one of the
      Aurors must've caught it. He didn't see Sirius's wand either.
      Malfoy muttered something to Crabbe; he pointed his wand at Goyle,
      who jerked awake. Must've used <em class="calibre7">Rennervate</em> on him, Harry
      assumed. Crabbe pulled Goyle to his feet and whispered something to
      him. Goyle nodded, then grabbed Hermione and began pulling her away
      down the corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Harry shouted. "Bring her back!" But Goyle kept dragging
      her away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's going to Azkaban," Malfoy yelled at him. "Unless you
      surrender immediately, Potter! You and Black both!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hesitated only a bare second. "I surrender, then!" he
      shouted. "Bring her back!" But Goyle and Hermione had already
      rounded a corner and were out of sight. "Goyle! You bastard! Bring
      her BACK!" He took a step toward Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe's wand was instantly on Harry as was the wands of the
      three Aurors behind him. Harry took another step but Remus took him
      by the arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Remus whispered urgently. "Don't force anything with
      Malfoy! He's trying to goad you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ignored him. "Malfoy, get Hermione back here," he
      demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy only smiled triumphantly. "Your surrender is the only
      thing that'll keep her from Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't really want us to surrender, do you?" Harry suddenly
      realized. "We're already disarmed but your men haven't moved in to
      take us. You have something else in mind, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A mask of nonemotion had settled on Malfoy's face. He turned
      slightly toward Crabbe and said in a low voice, "Permission
      granted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Crabbe said, and pointed his wand at Harry.
      "<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Crabbe finished the spell, Lupin shouted, "NO!" and leaped
      forward, moving between Harry and Crabbe. Time seemed to slow down
      as a bolt a green energy erupted from Crabbe's wand and flew toward
      the Chief Warlock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then time seemed to stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. Time <em class="calibre7">had</em> stopped. What the
      <em class="calibre7">hell</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Killing Curse was hovering in the air only inches from Remus
      Lupin's chest. He looked at Crabbe and Malfoy — both were unmoving,
      not even breathing. In the other direction the three Aurors' wands
      were pointed at him, Remus and Sirius, but they had frozen as well.
      Even Remus was still; he hadn't reacted to the green death that was
      about to strike him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Sirius, who was staring fixedly at Remus as
      well. Then Sirius turned to look at Harry. "That didn't work out
      well, did it?" he asked, matter-of-factly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?" Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded toward the others. "I thought we'd get this fracas
      under control. Or at least, enough to get Hermione free of these
      Aurors and get her and Tonks out of here. I should've guessed
      Malfoy would want us dead if Voldemort is in his head now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?" said Harry again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah — sorry," Sirius said, then concentrated for a second.
      A pale image separated from him and stepped away, solidifying into
      —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Monroe. Sirius had stopped moving and was as frozen as the
      others now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?" Harry said, a third time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Harry," Monroe said, grinning. "I'm baaack."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
