<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 3: The Interview, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: The Interview Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Updated 11/18/2011</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I've wanted an opportunity to speak like that once more
      for</em> years <em class="calibre7">now</em>.<em class="calibre7">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A pensive?" Monroe repeated, frowning. "A pensive
      <em class="calibre7">what</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's P-E-N-S-I-E-V-E," Harry spelled out the word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Monroe finally got it. "It's a pun. Well, I'm not that
      excited about something you're going to use on me that has the word
      'sieve' in it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was running his hand slowly around the rim of the gray
      stone bowl. "This was given to me by a good friend, who used it for
      many years. He stored extra memories in it when he felt his mind
      was getting a little too cluttered. I've viewed some of them over
      the years as well. You can use the bowl to view your own memories
      again at any time, and they get reintegrated back into your mind
      when you do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe, who still knew very little about magic, nevertheless
      immediately perceived a flaw in that design. "What happens if you
      view someone else's memories? Do they go into <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      person's mind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry replied. "You can view other people's memories in
      perfect detail, and remember them after you've seen them, but each
      person's memories are unique, and only flow back into the brain
      they came out of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was looking at the bowl apprehensively. "I'm beginning to
      think this is a bad idea," he muttered. Could this thing suck out
      all of his memories, leaving him a drooling idiot? Is that what
      Potter wanted, to suck out his memories of this interview, and
      steal his recorder, leaving him with nothing to report? Monroe
      still had his ace in the hole, the secondary recording device
      hidden within his clothing, as well as his Record-A-Pen in his
      jacket pocket, but if Potter somehow yanked out the memory that
      he'd ever <em class="calibre7">gone</em> on this interview, he might not remember to
      check his backup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did promise," Harry pointed out. "You shook on it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Monroe retorted. "Without knowing what I was getting
      into! And then you turned my freaking world upside down!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what makes a good article," Harry persisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Assuming I don't get locked up in the loony bin for telling
      it," Monroe came back. "Assuming you even let me out of here
      without turning me into a zombie. Assuming I wake up tomorrow and
      don't think this was all just a dream."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're so cynical," Harry muttered, reprovingly. "What have you
      got to lose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A lot</em>, Monroe though. Even if he kept his memories of
      this conversation, even if his Record-A-Pen still had the interview
      recorded on it, what was to keep his editors at <em class="calibre7">Singularity
      Today</em> from thinking he was trying to perpetrate a massive hoax
      on them? What was to keep Potter-Evans-Verres from saying it was
      all tongue-in-cheek and that he, Monroe, had misunderstood? But
      —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More than you seem to think," was all Monroe said. "Will you
      give me your word that, if you're questioned about this 'magic'
      you're been showing me, you won't deny everything or say it was
      just a hoax?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely," Harry nodded. "You have my word as a
      rationalist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Great</em>, thought Monroe. <em class="calibre7">That's a real comfort — a
      rationalist magic-user</em>. "Do you also give your word that
      you're going to let me out of here without sucking all my memories
      of this interview out of my head?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I promise, unless you ask me to," Harry agreed once again, with
      a qualification. "Satisfied?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Unless I</em> ask <em class="calibre7">him to</em>? Monroe thought. <em class="calibre7">Why
      in the world would I do</em> that? <em class="calibre7">Maybe this rationalist thing
      of his makes him answer in a hyper-literal viewpoint</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not altogether," the journalist admitted. "But…okay. What do we
      do next?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took on a detached look, as if he were reciting a
      well-learned routine. "You should spend a minute or so thinking
      about the situation — in your case, the phrase 'Recognition code
      927 — I am a potato.' When you're sufficiently composed, I will
      cast a short spell to extract the memories associated with that
      phrase, and will place them in the Pensieve. After that, you and I
      will enter the memories and view them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Monroe nodded, then began concentrating on the phrase
      in question, although there were no memories he could recall
      explicitly about it. Would that be enough to satisfy Potter, that
      there was nothing for him to see? It would have to be. "What now?"
      he asked, a minute or so later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took out his wand once again. He slowly moved the tip
      toward Monroe's temple, who watched nervously at its approach. When
      it finally touched, Harry said, "<em class="calibre7">Pensextraxi</em>!" and drew it
      slowly away from the journalist, who watched the wand moving away
      until he saw the tip, whereupon he jerked violently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A silver strand of — of <em class="calibre7">something</em> was attached to the
      tip of Harry's wand. "What the hell?" he shouted, but Harry put a
      hand on his shoulder to stop him from pulling away entirely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't move…" Harry muttered, continuing to draw his wand away
      from Monroe's head. "I'm extracting your thoughts." Monroe felt a
      brief tug, and the silver strand floated free at the tip of Harry's
      wand. Harry moved his wand over the Pensieve and wiggled it
      briefly; the strand of silvery stuff wafted downward, landing in
      the liquid-like substance in the bowl and seemed to dissipate.
      "Okay," Harry announced. "We're ready to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pointed to the Pensieve. "Do what I do," he told Monroe.
      "We're going to lean over and slowly put our faces into the bowl.
      Don't worry," he added, at Monroe's expression. "It's not liquid,
      so you won't drown. Be prepared for a falling sensation,
      however."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Falling?" Monroe looked startled. "What's going to happen to
      us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Harry assured him. "When we enter the memories we'll
      be floating down into them. You and anyone else associated with
      these memories will be there, but we won't be able to interact with
      them. We'll only see and hear what you saw and heard — the Pensieve
      does not read your inner thoughts. Are you ready?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Monroe said, resigned. "But let's get it over with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both men faced each other over the stone basin, then slowly
      lowered their faces toward the silvery liquid, Monroe watching
      Harry's actions carefully. As his nose touched the stuff, Monroe
      felt himself suddenly jerked forward into a cold blackness that
      seemed to spin him around and around violently, yet the sensation
      was merely unsettling, not painful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly the blackness resolved into a place unfamiliar to the
      journalist, as he landed without the sensation of hitting the
      ground in a vast, brightly-lit room. He looked around. Harry was
      standing next to him, his expression inscrutable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are we?" Monroe asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know?" Harry asked in reply, his tone unreadable.
      "Look around, see if you recognize anything. Or anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe glanced around him. The room he was in was very large and
      very open, longer than it was wide, but not by much, and four
      magnificent wooden tables ran down its length, two on each side of
      where they were standing. There were children seated at each of the
      tables, all of them eating or talking or reading; they must be at
      some kind of boarding school, Monroe decided, and was about to turn
      and ask if this was the school Harry attended when a glance upward
      made him stop and gape in awe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Above them were <em class="calibre7">thousands</em> of candles, not suspended
      from chandeliers, but floating in midair! And beyond the candles…
      the morning sky itself was visible, a vast canopy stretching over
      the entire room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kind of amazing, isn't it?" Harry's voice said in his ear, and
      Monroe nodded mutely. He had never seen anything like this. It
      <em class="calibre7">must</em> be the school Potter attended in Scotland! A
      <em class="calibre7">magic</em> school! But why would his thoughts bring them
      <em class="calibre7">here</em>? Had they gotten into one of Harry's memories by
      mistake?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just then a boy ran past them, a boy with unruly black hair that
      reminded Monroe of Potter's untamed hair, and practically leapt
      into a seat at the table nearest them, wedging apart two boys; one
      of them glared at his rudeness, but the other boy just kept on
      eating — his plate was filled with eggs, sausage and fried
      potatoes, Monroe saw — similar to his own favorite breakfast as a
      youth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired boy had grabbed something off his belt and was
      reaching into it. It was a small, leathery pouch, Monroe saw, and
      he pulled a small piece of paper out of it and consulted it
      briefly, then grabbed an entire pie that was sitting nearby and
      <em class="calibre7">stuffed it into the pouch</em>. As Monroe watched, fascinated,
      the mouth of the pouch expanded so the pie could fit inside, then
      shrunk back to its original diameter with a small
      <em class="calibre7">burp</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" a girl with curly brown hair looked at the black-haired
      boy indignantly. "That's everyone's dessert! You can't just take
      one whole pie and put it in your pouch!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But even as she was saying this, the boy had grabbed another pie
      and fed it into his pouch. "I'm not taking one pie, I'm taking
      two," he informed her. He spun around and stood. "Sorry everyone,
      gotta run now!" Several other people shouted at him, outraged at
      his actions, but he ignored them, trotted down to the end of the
      tables and exited the large set of double doors that led out of the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe glanced back at the empty spot where the boy had
      momentarily seated himself. The piece of paper he'd pulled from his
      pouch was still on the table, and the boy who had continued eating
      his breakfast idly picked it up and was looking at it. Monroe
      leaned over the boy's shoulder to read what was written on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the note was a handwritten message, along with several
      annotations made to one side. The annotations were some type of
      list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Two candy bars (small).<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">First note (-1
      attempt)<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Empty box of snack bars<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Second
      note (1 point spent)<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Six snack
      bars.<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Third note (-20 points, bad guess! And -2
      pajama points)<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Fourth note (1 point spent) plus
      underwear comment<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Cherry pie (first
      throw)<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Blueberry pie (second throw, with warning
      note)<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Fifth note (+10 style, -1 million for good
      thinking) 2 turns left<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Sixth note (appeal failed, -1
      billion for asking the wrong questions)<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Final note,
      failure and minus infinity points.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The note itself was shorter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Dear Me,<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Please play the game. You can only
      play the game once in a lifetime.<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">This is an
      irreplaceable opportunity.<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">Recognition code 927, I am
      a potato.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yours,<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre7">You.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Monroe said. He didn't understand the note, but there was
      the mnemonic code Harry had questioned him about, clearly written
      there. He stood up and looked at Harry, who had been looking over
      the boy's other shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welp," the Harry standing beside him said, in a monotone. "Now
      we know." Though that fact clearly did not seem to satisfy him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't get it," Monroe said, bewildered. "Who <em class="calibre7">is</em> this
      kid? What's he doing in this place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I'd like to know, too," Harry said, evenly. "We're
      seeing these things from his perspective, and these are
      <em class="calibre7">your</em> extracted thoughts. Therefore it follows that this
      boy is you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't give me that!" Malfoy snapped, glaring at Dean Thomas's
      image on his white screen — <em class="calibre7">another</em> one of Potter's
      improvements to wizard communications over the past few decades,
      though not one of his original ideas. "Potter never intended to
      give that Muggle an interview in the first place — now you're
      trying to say he's taking extra time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know how his mind works," Dean shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No</em>, Malfoy thought. <em class="calibre7">I</em> don't <em class="calibre7">know how his
      mind works, not anymore</em>, but instead he said, "Just let us
      know when he finally leaves the building, Mr. Thomas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you'll know the moment he does, Head Auror," Dean
      replied, acidly. The connection terminated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy sat back in his chair. Of course they would know —
      they had Harry's building closely monitored, inside and out. The
      only place they weren't authorized to surveil was the Potter
      private residence on the top three floors of the building, occupied
      by Potter and his wife, Hermione Granger-Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the Muggle finally emerged from the building, Aurors would
      close in and quickly transport him to headquarters, where he could
      be adequately debriefed and properly Obliviated, if necessary. If
      any of Potter's schemes of informing the Muggles of the Wizarding
      world were somehow bound up in this Muggle's head, they would be
      removed and false memories would be implanted in their
      place—memories that were not very complimentary of Harry Potter's
      Muggle business ventures, if Draco had his way. Potter was becoming
      much too powerful in the Muggle world; someone had to apply some
      leverage there. For the Wizarding world it was already too late,
      Draco knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's power and prestige in the Wizarding world was already a
      foregone conclusion. By the time he had left Hogwarts he had
      already owned most of Diagon Alley's businesses, either directly or
      through what he'd called "investments" with the business owners
      themselves. Even shops in Knockturn Alley had not been safe from
      his reach — the owners there were known to be even more interested
      in money than many of the other businesses in Diagon Alley, and
      Harry had preyed upon that greed to his advantage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter also had more influence over the goblins of Gringotts
      than even Draco's father wielded these days, and that took
      <em class="calibre7">real</em> wealth, not the paltry fortune Potter's birth parents
      would have left him, a sum known to Lord Malfoy at the time, though
      he had not told Draco until years later. Draco did not know how
      Harry had come into such money except that it likely had to do with
      Harry's being a "scientist," as he'd liked to call himself while at
      Hogwarts. While Draco had learned the techniques of science from
      Harry, and had adopted a few of its principles, his most important
      lessons had always come from his father.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so, adhering to those techniques, and to the traditions the
      Malfoys had followed for centuries, he was now the second most
      powerful person in Wizarding Britain — the Head Auror for the
      Ministry of Magic, answerable only to the Minister herself. Who, a
      small voice in Draco's head reminded him, was married to Harry
      Potter, the <em class="calibre7">real</em> most powerful person in Wizarding
      Britain. Did that leave him at Number Three? Draco was inclined to
      think "no" — his influence in the Ministry, along with his father's
      influence in the Wizengamot, could change the very laws themselves,
      if need be. Someday, Draco knew as well, his father would pass on,
      making him Lord Malfoy, and this stepping-stone job as Head Auror
      would be put behind him, for <em class="calibre7">real</em> power. Until then, he
      would continue to win friends and influence people here in the
      Ministry, preparing for that day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Besides, who knew? Draco allowed himself a small smile. If
      something happened to Granger-Potter's popularity and she was
      sacked, he might actually find himself positioned to move into the
      Number One spot in Wizarding Britain's government. Wouldn't that be
      something, along with his father's power to help him change the
      face of the nation? Draco basked in the glow of that happy thought
      for some time before taking out his wand and tapping the white
      screen, resuming his monitoring of Potter's building.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Me</em>?" Monroe gasped. He leaned down until he was level
      with the boy's face, looking at him carefully. He <em class="calibre7">did</em> look
      familiar, the journalist had to admit. "But how could <em class="calibre7">I</em> be
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can continue this in my workshop," Harry said, and they both
      floated upward into darkness. Monroe felt himself spinning end for
      end somehow, then stood up from the stone basin he had been leaning
      over before things went surreal, looking at Harry, who was
      regarding him with a calculating look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could I be at that school?" Monroe asked again. "That
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> the school you attended, I assume?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry confirmed. "It was. Hogwarts School of Witchcraft
      and Wizardry. Which makes this an interesting problem. I've been
      trying to remember who that boy was. He was sitting at the
      Ravenclaw table, but he wasn't any of my dorm mates —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean by 'the Ravenclaw table'?" Monroe asked. "The
      tables had names?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hogwarts was divided into four Houses," Harry explained.
      "Ravenclaw, Gryffindor, Hufflepuff and Slytherin. Students were
      Sorted into one of the Houses when they first arrived at
      school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which one were you sorted into?" Monroe asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled softly. "I was something of a special case. The
      Sorting Hat — it's an old wizard's hat that's placed on the head of
      each student in order to sort them —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This hat puts in one of these 'Houses,' then?" Monroe wanted to
      know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a way," Harry agreed. "It mostly uses the student's own
      inclinations and desires when it does so, though — anyway, it
      wanted to sort me into either Hufflepuff or Gryffindor. Those
      Houses are mostly known for having hardworking, loyal and brave
      students, by the way. It thought I'd be too isolated in Ravenclaw,
      and in Slytherin — well, in Slytherin I'd be under a lot of
      pressure to be ambitious, to get ahead. Either way, it was afraid
      I'd end up as a Dark Lord if I ended up in one of those last two
      Houses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Dark Lord?" Monroe echoed. "Do I want to know what that
      is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't answer for a moment, just looked at the Muggle
      standing across the Pensieve from him. There wasn't much point to
      telling him what a Dark Lord was; he wasn't going to remember any
      of this conversation, anyway — by his own choice, of course. Harry
      certainly wasn't going to tell Monroe how close he had come to
      becoming a Dark Lord himself over the past 25 years. And only
      villains in stories revealed their plots, especially stupid ones.
      Harry was not stupid, much less a villain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You probably don't," he said. "Anyway, you've fulfilled your
      part of the bargain, so the interview is over. You can leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Leave?" Monroe looked around the workroom. What other devices
      like that lightsaber were in this room, unrevealed to the world?
      How vast was this magical business, that men like Potter were a
      part of the normal world and they didn't even know about them? What
      would the world be like if everyone had access to magic? Would it
      be part of the Singularity? That much seemed almost inevitable if
      men like Potter were working toward it as well as men like Ray
      Kurzweil, Nick Bostrom, Aubrey de Grey, and Eliezer Yudkowsky?
      "Don't you have any questions for me? Aren't you curious about who
      that boy at the table was?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yes, I'm very curious about who that was," Harry agreed.
      "But they were <em class="calibre7">your</em> memories, and you don't remember how
      you got there, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Monroe admitted, after a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then the memories surrounding the ones you remember were
      probably Obliviated," Harry reasoned. "Otherwise we would have seen
      the ones showing why you were there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But who would have done that?" Monroe asked, a hint of
      desperation in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any competent wizard performing a Memory Charm knows better
      than to leave a trail back to himself," Harry answered. "I didn't
      recognize that kid, either — he might have been in one of the other
      Houses, but I thought I'd seen the faces of every first year when
      we were all Sorted, and I don't remember his. He might've been a
      second- or third-year, but I don't ever remember seeing his face
      again at the school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many students attend Hogwarts each year?" Monroe asked,
      eager for any information about the magical world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It varies from year to year," Harry told him. "But it was
      around 800 students total, on average."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a lot of kids to keep track of," Monroe pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most of the professors there knew everyone by name," Harry
      said. "At least, the ones who taught the most important subjects
      did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what were those subjects?" Monroe prompted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd love to tell you all about them," Harry said, seriously.
      "But…I think it's a pretty foregone conclusion that the Ministry is
      going to pick you up the minute you walk out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre7">Ministry</em>?" Monroe exclaimed. "What do
      <em class="calibre7">they</em> know about all this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not the boys on Downing Street," Harry told him. "Though the
      Muggle Prime Minister is aware of our existence. I mean, he's aware
      that the Ministry of Magic exists and is run by people who can use
      magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked blankly at him. Then, "Well, I should have guessed
      there'd be some kind of magical government running things. But what
      do they want with <em class="calibre7">me</em>? As you say, I'm just a Muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're concerned that I might have told you about our magical
      society."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you <em class="calibre7">did</em> tell me!" Monroe's voice had gone shrill.
      "Why'd you do that, if you knew they were going to questions
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought I might be able to slip you by," Harry shrugged. "But
      no such luck this time — they were watching to see how long you
      spent in the building, and it's been long enough to arouse
      suspicion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that's just <em class="calibre7">great</em>!" Monroe looked super pissed
      off. He spun angrily away from Harry, staring across the workshop.
      "What are they going to <em class="calibre7">do</em> to me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably just Obliviate you and send you on your way," Harry
      speculated. As Monroe sighed with relief, he added, "Though they
      <em class="calibre7">might</em> decide to make an example of you to me…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An example?" Monroe turned slowly to face Harry again. "What
      does <em class="calibre7">that</em> mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they can't really do anything to <em class="calibre7">me</em>," Harry
      explained. "Too much political fallout if the Minister's spouse
      gets put in Azkaban, you see. So they might put you in prison, as a
      deterrent to me trying to inform anyone else in the Muggle world
      about our existence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're saying they'd put ME in jail to teach YOU a lesson?"
      Monroe said, disbelievingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is just so wrong on so many levels," Monroe muttered in a
      plaintive voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "It's the way many in the Ministry think,
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was beginning to look scared. "So how do I get out of
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Out of having the magical cops take you in?" Harry looked
      amused. "Oh, you're not getting out of that, amigo. If they want
      you, they're going to take you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay —" Monroe was rubbing the back of his neck, almost ready
      to panic. "— okay — I mean, how do I beat the rap?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…" Harry looked unhappy. "I guess I could Obliviate the
      memories you have, if you're willing to erase your recording of the
      interview."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe now looked unhappy as well, but took the Record-A-Pen out
      of his jacket pocket. "I can do that," he said, sliding aside the
      pocket clip and manipulating some small controls that were
      revealed. He held up the small LCD screen to Harry, showing him
      <strong class="calibre8">0MB Recorded</strong> displayed on it. "It's gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave him a skeptical look. "Is that the <em class="calibre7">only</em>
      recording device you had on you, Monroe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe stared at him for several seconds, then shook his head.
      He reached down to the bottom of his jacket, running a finger along
      one edge; the seam parted and another small recording device fell
      out. "I don't know if they would have found this, though," he said,
      holding it up for Harry to inspect it. "It would have registered as
      an RFID chip on any scanner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except for any magical scanner," Harry said, looking at it
      closely. "Very clever, though. You'd better erase it, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded and used a ball-point pen tip to press on a small
      depression in the device. A few moments later it beeped twice,
      signifying the memory was cleared. Monroe dropped it into his
      jacket pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it," he said, spreading his arms. "I'm clean, except for
      what's in my head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Harry said. "Follow me." Harry led the journalist back
      through the workroom, to the door they had originally come through,
      where Harry's dining area was. As they both stepped through, the
      door slid closed and seemed to disappear behind them, as if it had
      never been there at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This should do," Harry said, taking out his wand. "Sorry about
      this, James," he nodded in respect to the journalist. "I enjoyed
      our talk, short as it was." His wand came up —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe we can meet again," Monroe suddenly suggested. "You know
      — have another go at this, maybe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave him a grin. "We'll see," he said. "But I wouldn't
      hold my breath, if I were you." His wand tip made small but
      complicated motions even as Monroe frowned at his final remark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean —?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Obliviate</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe's expression went slack, his eyes unseeing. Harry held
      the wand on him as he circled around behind the frozen figure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We had a nice interview," Harry said softly, speaking into
      Monroe's ear. "Even though you forgot to turn on your recording
      device. I invited you to lunch in my private dining room, filet
      mignon with a baked potato and vegetables, with wine; you drank a
      bit more than you should have, and I let you lie down for a while
      on a couch. When you wake up, you'll be ready to leave, and we'll
      exit back into my office and out into the waiting area, where
      you'll get your briefcase from Ginny and leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will <em class="calibre7">not</em> remember being Obliviated, or even
      discussing it with anyone. You will not remember the recognition
      code nor where you learned of it, however you might have come to be
      at Hogwarts." Though that was something Harry intended to pursue,
      once the Muggle was gone. "Now, awaken."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe blinked, then yawned. He turned to Harry. "Thanks for
      letting me take a nap, Mr. Potter. I'm sorry to have imposed on
      you. And thanks for lunch, it was wonderful!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm happy to have met you, Mr. Monroe," Harry smiled. "And I
      hope you can do something with our interview, even if your
      recording device missed it all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it was entirely my fault," Monroe pointed out. He reached
      out a hand, and they shook. "Good luck with your efforts on the
      Singularity, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, and the Muggle turned, exiting through Harry's
      office door, where Ginny passed him his briefcase and one of the
      other secretaries, Debbie, waited to bring him down to the ground
      floor lobby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny came into the room afterwards. She said nothing, but with
      her hand held close to her chest, made a small finger-snapping
      gesture. Harry nodded slightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you have fun?" Ginny asked aloud, knowing that none of the
      Ministry's surveillance spells were working at the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More or less," Harry said, a bit distractedly. "I almost feel
      sorry for the guy — he probably won't get home tonight, if Malfoy
      is as thorough with him as usual. But —" he shrugged "— he asked
      for it, coming in here and demanding an interview and all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And saying the secret words," Ginny added,
      matter-of-factly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was humming an old movie tune as he left Potter's
      building, turning toward the Underground Station that had brought
      him here earlier today. The interview could have gone better, at
      least as he remembered it, but it still wasn't bad. If he got back
      to his computer right away and began shaping his recollections into
      words, he might recapture most of the conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hmm hmm hmm, hmm-hmm-hmm, hmm-hmm-hmm,<br class="calibre4"/>
      Hmm hmm hmm Hmm-hmm-hmm, hmm-hmm-hmm.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Hmm Hm-Hmm Hmm Hmm Hm-hm-hm, hmm hmm, hmm hmm hm-hm-hm, hmm hmm,
      hm-hm-Hmm, hmm-Hmm-Hmmm,<br class="calibre4"/>
      Hmm Hm-Hmm Hmm Hmm Hm-hm-hm, hmm hmm, hmm hmm hm-hm-hm, hmm hmm,
      hm-hm-hmm, hm-hm-hmmm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Monroe had been aware of the title of the song he was
      humming, he might have had more of a sense of foreboding, of
      imminent DOOM.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A half-block from the Underground entrance, he was suddenly
      bookended by two large men in long, black trenchcoats, who chivvied
      him into a nearby alley before he could so much as protest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Each man was over six feet in height, and they were well away
      from the main street before Monroe regained enough wit to become
      indignant at their actions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's going on? If it's money you want I'm afraid I have very
      little —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Da boss wants ta speak wit' youse, so shaddup an' come along
      peaceful-like," one of them growled in a voice that seemed too soft
      for such words. He looked over Monroe's head at the other man,
      grinning broadly. "You know," he said, in a much more erudite tone,
      "I've wanted an opportunity to speak like that once more for
      <em class="calibre7">years</em> now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are you two taking me?" Monroe demanded. "I want to see
      some iden—" He suddenly slumped as the other man pressed a wand
      into his ribs and whispered a single word. The two large men
      stopped, holding up the unconscious journalist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">That</em> shut him up pretty quickly," the first man said.
      "What'd you use?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Somnium," the second man said. "It's not very powerful, so it's
      suitable for Muggles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first man nodded agreement. "Da boss — I mean, Mr. Malfoy —
      wants us back at the Ministry as soon as possible after we pick
      this one up. Do you have the Portkey?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Mr. Crabbe." The second man brought out a small
      scrap of parchment. "It will activate upon the touch of three
      individual's fingers," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe snorted. "It sounds like Mr. Malfoy didn't expect us to
      fail, did he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Goyle grinned. "Against a <em class="calibre7">Muggle</em>? I should think
      not." He maneuvered the sleeping Muggle's hand so one of his
      fingers touched the parchment he held, then Mr. Crabbe reached out
      and put a finger on it as well. There was a sudden whirl of color
      and wind, and the alleyway was empty once again.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
