<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 30: For All the Marbles, Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s30" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 30: For All the Marbles Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Updated</em> 7/12/2013</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Four former students of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
      Wizardry stared at the wall running along the northern boundary of
      the school, not far from the gates but beyond the edge of the wards
      protecting the school. And further away than where the Marauder's
      Map would begin showing them when activated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The oldest of the four glanced at the three redheads. "I hope
      you had a plan before coming here," she said, plaintively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A plan? Pffft," the next-oldest waved a hand airly as he
      repled. "That would ruin the fun of it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really don't want to get caught," the pink-haired Auror
      pointed out. "Maybe you three should just go ahead on your own, if
      you haven't figured out what you're going to do yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We didn't say that," the third-oldest objected. "We know what
      we're doing, we just didn't plan it out ahead of time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that would be boring," the youngest redhead agreed. "Even
      if we are trying to snatch our only sister away from the Aurors
      guarding her and hide her where they'll never find her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," the renegade Auror said skeptically. "I think you'd
      better plan on finding someone who can cast a Fidelius for you. The
      Auror Department takes a dim view of prisoners escaping from
      Azkaban — they will look for her anywhere and everywhere they think
      she might be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure they will," the elder redheaded twin agreed. "But
      short of accidentally including an Auror in the Fidelius —" both
      twins smiled at this. "I don't think they stand a puffskein's
      chance in a nundu's lair of finding her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what <em class="calibre7">are</em> we doing?" the youngest of the group
      wanted to know. "We're assuming Malfoy has the Marauder's Map,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right you are, Ronnikins," the twins answered. "He'd be foolish
      to trust the security system <em class="calibre7">we</em> designed. Especially since
      we've already told it to ignore our presence here at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice," the Auror said, somewhat impressed. "You added a
      backdoor to your system."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a secret, of course," the elder twin put a finger over
      his lips. "Don't tell Nevillie. He still doesn't know we're selling
      our wares in the Gryffindor common room every third Saturday of the
      month."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks giggled. "My lips are sealed, then." She cocked her head,
      her hair turning a curious yellow. "So how are you getting past the
      Marauder's Map, then?<br class="calibre4"/>
      "We're not," George said. "Can't be done, and we've tried a lot of
      different ways, but it doesn't matter — if you're a ghost, an
      Animagus, Disillusioned, or whatever, the Map knows where you are.
      The only thing that might work is Harry's Invisibility Cloak, and
      we don't have that at our disposal right now. More than likely
      Malfoy has got that as well. We talked to Hermione after Harry went
      into Azkaban and she told us the Ministry came and cleaned out
      every magical item in their apartment. Shut down all the wards and
      protection spells. Left her pretty much defenseless. We offered to
      put up some protection spells for her but she said she didn't want
      us getting into trouble." George shook his head. "Wish she'd
      reconsidered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, so if Malfoy sees us on the Marauder's Map our gooses are
      collectively cooked," Tonks said, her pessimism beginning to feel
      warranted. "That's not good. It's a long way from the gates of
      Hogwarts to the infirmary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, we're not going to <em class="calibre7">walk</em> into Hogwarts. Not even
      one of the secret passages would keep from beign seen on the Map.
      We're taking a short cut," Fred told her, reaching into his robe
      and taking out a metallic ring about a foot in diameter. He held it
      out for her to see: the ring was a dark metal with runes carved
      into the top.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We got the basic idea from this when were still in school, when
      we saw some upperclassmen creating rune arches," Fred continued,
      flipping the ring over to reveal more runes on its opposite side.
      "But it's been harder to implement than we expected." He reached
      into his robes and pulled out another ring, this one identical to
      the first, then put it away again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our first idea," Fred continued, "was to create a ring that we
      could use to Apparate through the wards around the school to
      anywhere within the school or grounds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our basic problem," George went on, "was how much magic a ring
      big enough for three or four persons was required to Apparate
      through the wards. You could do it, but you ended up weak and
      magically drained when you landed. That increased the chance of
      Splinching when you tried to Apparate a second or third time. It's
      also a problem carrying around big metal rings that are each three
      or four feet in diameter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron took up the story at that point. "But then one of us —" Ron
      pointed a thumb at himself "— had the brilliant idea of asking if
      we could just use a smaller ring to create a Portkey rather than
      Apparate. With a Portkey you can't get Splinched. It took off from
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meaning," Fred said, leaning conspiratorially toward Tonks,
      "that Ronnie here came up with the idea, but George and I had to
      figure out how to make it happen. Which we did," he finished
      proudly, holding up the ring again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what does <em class="calibre7">this</em> wonderful ring do?" Tonks asked,
      patiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It creates a small area within an anti-Portkey ward that will
      let us key into the ward when we create a Portkey," George
      explained. "We can then use the Portkey to go anywhere within the
      anti-Portkey ward area we want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The only problem with <em class="calibre7">that</em>," Ron added, "is that some
      wizards create their wards to change harmonics whenever a keyed-in
      spell or item is activated. "And Neville Longbottom is one of those
      wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks nodded. "So the Portkey is only good for one use,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give the little lady a gold ring!" Fred beamed. "Yes, that's
      why we have a second ring to use to get out of the school — using
      the first ring drains its magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what if your ring doesn't work?" Tonks wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It will," Fred said confidently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Humor me for a moment," she insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred scratched his chin, looking at George, who made a shrugging
      gesture and indicated he should go ahead and answer. "Well, in the
      best case we won't be able to create the Portkey in the first place
      — the wards at the destination would prevent that — and in the
      worst case, we will bounce off the ward and end up in some random
      location; whether that location is above or below ground, or inside
      some object, we wouldn't know until we got there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice," Tonks said sarcastically. "How sure are you that this
      <em class="calibre7">will</em> work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Definitely," Fred answered at once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty sure," George said at the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fairly sure," Ron said at the same time. The three brothers
      looked at each other, then at Tonks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're sure," Fred finished. "Trust us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks shook her head dubiously but said nothing. At least they
      had a way in and out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So the plan," George summed up, "is to create the Portkey, drop
      into the infirmary, have you and Ron grab Ginny while Fred and I
      make the second Portkey, and head out to an as-yet undisclosed
      location where Ginny will be safe. Total time in Hogwarts, about
      ten seconds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if Malfoy's not looking at the Map during that time," Tonks
      surmised, "they'll never know anyone was there until they realize
      Ginny's missing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the rumor," Fred nodded. He held out the rune ring in
      front of him and looked around at the others. "Are we ready to
      go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks, George and Ron nodded assent. "Everyone line up with me,"
      Fred said, and they began moving forward slowly. "We have to find
      the edge of the Portkey ward, then George will cast the spell on
      the object — what are we using?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron held up a shot glass still filled with firewhiskey. "I
      didn't think old Alderforth would miss it," he grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks made a face, but Fred and George both beamed. "Excellent!"
      they said in unison. Ron drank a bit of the firewhiskey, then
      passed the glass to George, who drank and passed it to Fred. Fred
      knocked back most of the glass, then held it out to Tonks. Tonks
      looked at the little bit of firewhiskey still in the glass,
      shrugged, and downed the rest. At that moment the black ring in
      Fred's hands began to glow a pale blue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, it's inside the Portkey ward," Fred said quickly.
      "Cast the spell!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George put the now-empty shot glass in the middle of the ring
      and pointed his wand at it. "<em class="calibre7">Portus</em>," he said, and the
      glass flashed blue. "Five seconds," George warned everyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred put the first ring into his robes as he, Tonks and Ron each
      put a finger on the Portkey. "Everyone remember your jobs —" he
      said, then a whirlwind of color scooped them up and they
      vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Portkey whirlwind deposited the four of them in the center
      of the infirmary, all landing expertly on their feet. "There she
      is!" Fred said, pointing to a corner where a screen hid the bed
      from view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Waitaminute!" Ron said, pointing toward another corner, where
      an identical screen was set up. "What about that one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred spun around, cursing to himself. "They set up multiple
      screens!" he rasped. "Check them all!" He sprinted toward the one
      he'd pointed to, pointing his wand and knocking the screen aside.
      There was no one in the bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aaaaaah!" a girl in a nearby bed screamed at seeing an unknown
      adult wizard throwing things around in the infirmary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quiet!" Fred hissed, turning and running back to the center of
      the room. Tonks, Ron and George had each gone to an opposite corner
      looking for Ginny. "Not here!" Tonks said loudly, looking behind
      her screen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not here either!" George's shout followed right behind Tonks.
      "She's supposed to be in here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Over here," Fred spun toward the barely audible words. Ginny
      was in a bed in plain view near Madam Pomfrey's office. He raced
      over to the bed and picked her up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny! Are you okay?" Fred asked her anxiously. She nodded
      weakly. "Here she is! Let's get out of here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks, George and Ron turned and ran toward Fred and Ginny. But
      as Ron ran past a bed, an arm reached out and caught at his pants
      leg, causing him to stumble. He reached down and grabbed the hand
      holding his pants leg, trying to make it let go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The patient reached out with her other hand, grabbing his pants
      leg again, and Ron hissed "Let go!" then gasped as he looked at the
      face of the person in the bed. The girl in the bed had jet-black
      hair, but her face was Ginny's. Her mouth moved but nothing came
      out, and she pointed at her throat. Ron pointed his wand at her and
      said, "<em class="calibre7">Vocalis</em>!" the countercurse for the Silencio spell.
      "Ron, it's me," she whispered. "Other Ginny — Polyjuice…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fred!" Ron immediately shouted. "Polyjuice!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred instantly dropped the girl in his arms, drawing his wand as
      he did so. The girl was drawing hers at the same time, but Ron
      managed to shout "<em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>!" before she got off a spell.
      She hit the bed, unconscious, and Fred followed with "<em class="calibre7">Polyfluis
      Reverso</em>!" Ginny's form began to melt, and Fred turned and ran
      toward Ron, with Tonks and George converging on him and Ginny at
      the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred pulled out the second ring as he ran toward them. Ron
      picked up Ginny and held her ready as George drew the second
      Portkey from his robes, a Fanged Frisbee and jammed it into the
      center of the black ring Fred held. "<em class="calibre7">Portus</em>," George said,
      and the Frisbee flashed blue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All hell broke loose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least four "patients" in beds around the infirmary suddenly
      sat up, pointing their wands at either Tonks and the Weasleys or
      into the air. Tonks instinctively raised a shield encompassing the
      group at the first unexpected motion. Curses bounced off the
      shield; Tonks smirked as at least one "patient" was knocked out by
      his own Stunner — she'd managed to twist the spell as it ricocheted
      off her shield back at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grab the Frisbee!" Fred yelled. "Five seconds — NO!" He
      suddenly knocked the Portkey out of George's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's wrong?" Ron yelled, staring as the toy bounced off Tonks
      shield. "Why'd you —" Everyone inside the shield flinched as the
      Frisbee suddenly exploded and at the same time became a
      rainbow-hued whirlwind and vanished. "Holy shit!" Ron exclaimed.
      "What happened?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They put up more Portkey wards," Fred said. "We didn't test for
      that! The Frisbee thought it was good to go but those extra wards
      stopped it. If we'd gone with it we'd be —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're still going to be," Tonks warned, "if we don't get out of
      here. A couple of those 'kids' who were playing possum in the beds
      are casting Breaking Drill Hexes on my shield!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred shook his head. "I knew I should have made three rune
      rings," he muttered, then looked up at them, beaming. "Oh wait! I
      did!" He pulled a third ring from his robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Freddie, I could kiss you!" George laughed, patting his twin on
      both cheeks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, don't," Fred warned, holding out the third ring. "No need
      to make Angelina jealous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that going to work?" Tonks asked, wincing as she poured more
      magic into her shield, fighting the Breaking Drills being applied
      to it. "There are multiple Portkey wards holding us here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It can handle them if the Portkey is set <em class="calibre7">after</em> they're
      up," Fred said. "I did tests for multiple wards. Hurry up and cast
      the spell, George!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George was looking around frantically for something to charm.
      "What do I use?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh for Merlin's sake!" Ron snapped. He reached down and pulled
      a trainer off one of his feet. "Here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George grabbed the shoe and stuck it into the ring Fred held.
      "<em class="calibre7">Portus</em>!" he said, and everyone grabbed hold of the shoe.
      There was flash of whirling colors inside Tonks' shield, which
      popped out of existence as the whirlwind died away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A fourth-year girl in blonde curls reached into her hospital
      robe and pulled out a two-way mirror. "They Ported out," she said.
      "As you expected, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," Malfoy's image in the mirror smiled. "Did the Portkey
      detection charm catch their destination?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blonde concentrated for a moment. "It did," she confirmed.
      "I can charm another Portkey and be down in the Entrance Hall in
      less than a minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make two," Malfoy said. "We're done here for now. And drop that
      ridiculous disguise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir." The blonde stood, casting Polyfluis Reverso on
      herself, growing several feet in height and becoming Vincent
      Crabbe. He picked up two trays, casting word-trigger Portkeys on
      each of them, then ran out of the infirmary for the Entrance Hall.
      The Weasleys and the traitorous Auror Tonks were about to have a
      rude surprise show up at their "secret" location!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ready for this?" Remus asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius both nodded. Their wands were out and ready,
      and Harry was breathing slowly in preparation for the spell he had
      to cast immediately upon arrival at their destination. It was not
      going to be easy, because they would be at ground zero, and it
      would not be pleasant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus handed a shot glass to Sirius, who held it for several
      seconds before finally pointing his wand at it and saying,
      "<em class="calibre7">Portus</em>." The glass glowed blue and Sirius said, "I set it
      for fifteen seconds, in case you need a running start, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded again. He reached out and took an edge of the glass
      in forefinger and thumb. Remus and Sirius did the same. While the
      Weasleys had something of a plan (Fred just shrugged when asked
      before they left, but Harry knew they never leaped before they
      looked) his strategy was a bit less developed. Nevertheless, Remus
      and Sirius were still coming with him, and he was grateful. And he
      hoped they could make it in and out Askaban before the Aurors even
      knew they were there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't very likely, but if he could find Hermione and get
      back in the central shaft, where the magical protections were
      drained away by the Dementors, they could enchant another Portkey
      to take them out and back to — somewhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Portkey activated and an invisible hook pulled Harry forward
      into a whirlwind of color, spinning him and the two Marauders with
      him. They were pulled forward, twisting color and howling winds all
      about them, until Harry's feet slammed into what felt like mud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were atop the mound of dirt that was the nesting place of
      the remaining Dementors of Azkaban. Harry immediately began casting
      the Patronus Charm, while Remus and Sirius checked for the hole
      Harry had made in the wall at the lowest level of the prison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expecto Patronum</em>!" Harry's Patronus blazed into
      existence, hovering above him and protecting him and the others.
      The few remaining Dementors, floating higher in the air shaft,
      moved away but otherwise did not seem to notice them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hole Harry had made was still in the wall, left unplugged.
      Remus followed the hole down along the side of the building to
      where a great round section of the wall lay near the bottom of the
      Dementor mound. "That's…impressive," he muttered to Sirius.
      "Partial Transfiguration?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "That's what he said. I've been meaning to ask
      him to explain but I don't think we've had a spare minute since we
      got out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A spare minute for what?" Harry asked from behind them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Explaining Partial Transfiguration," Remus said. "Albus told me
      once you could do it and I've been meaning to ask for a
      demonstration, but —" he gestured at the section of wall below
      them. "— I'd say that qualifies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where do you think Hermione is?" Harry asked of no one in
      particular.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Sirius who answered. "The holding cells for prisoners
      bound over for trial is in section 2-A. Assuming the Aurors didn't
      act like complete assholes, that's probably where she's at. That
      means a long climb up this bitch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grimaced. "What if the Aurors <em class="calibre7">were</em> assholes?" he
      asked. "That means they could have put Hermione in any one of the
      cells between here and there, doesn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Remus glanced at each other. "Well, yes," Remus
      admitted. "Or Malfoy could have ordered them to put her close to
      the Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit," Harry muttered. "We'll have to check every cell on our
      way up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will be able to locate her," Harry's Patronus, who had been
      floating above the three of them, spoke at last.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah," Harry muttered, irritated that he should have
      remembered that on his own and hadn't. "Good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus put a hand on Harry's shoulder to get his attention. "We
      shouldn't use magic, by the way — the Dementors can't detect us
      with your Patronus nearby, but they might be able to sense any
      magic we perform and warn the Aurors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up at the hole in the wall above them. "How are we
      getting up there without magic, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got that covered," Remus said, reaching into his robes and
      taking out a mokeskin pouch. He reached inside and said, "Rope
      ladder," and "magnetic bar," removing both items from the pouch. He
      attached the top of the rope ladder to two clasps on the bar, then
      handed one side to Sirius, pointing upward toward the hole. "Aim
      for just below the bottom lip," he instructed, and he and Sirius
      threw the bar upward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bar hit the wall a foot below the hole with a loud
      <em class="calibre7">clang</em> and stuck. "Now we simply climb up the rope," he
      told Harry and Sirius, smiling triumphantly. "No magic needed." A
      minute later the three of them were standing inside the hole Harry
      had made barely a day ago. Remus retrieved his rope and magnetic
      bar and returned them to his pouch. "We should start looking for
      Hermione," he said, unnecessarily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like this?" Sirius asked. "What about Disillusionment Charms,
      at least?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus folded his arms, looking thoughtful. "Harry, I noticed the
      Dementors don't seem to sense our presence," he said, gesturing to
      the dark-cloaked entities floating a dozen yards or so above them.
      "Is your Patronus preventing them from stealing our emotions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Even more than that — we become invisible to
      them, like we're not even here. They don't even seem to sense the
      Patronus except to avoid getting too near to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that's the case," Remus mused, "we might be able to cast
      some personal magic on ourselves without their noticing it. We can
      test that." He raised his wand over his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a second," Harry said, stopping him. "What if it doesn't
      work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then the Dementors will likely inform the Aurors in the control
      center that magic was performed somewhere in the prison, and they
      will investigate," Remus hypothesized. "But if they do not sense
      our presence then a magical spell performed only our persons will
      very likely not be sensed, either. Disillusionment isn't our best
      protection, but it's better than nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't argue about that. He gestured for Remus to go
      ahead. The Chief Warlock tapped himself on the head. There was a
      sound like eggs cracking, and Remus faded from view. Harry looked
      up. The three Dementors still hovered above them, oblivious to
      their presence and seemingly to the magic that had just been
      performed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looks like it worked," Sirius said, beaming. "Good job, Moony!"
      He took out his own wand and repeated the spell on himself. Harry
      did the same. In a few moments only the Patronus remained
      visible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, let's go," Harry said, and his Patronus began
      walking down the corridor to the main hallway of section 9-A, with
      the three wizards following it closely. As they walked, Harry
      noticed that the gas lamps along the walls were not lit; if it
      weren't for the light of his Patronus they would walking in
      complete darkness. That was not going to make things any easier for
      them, but at least they could see for now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Only eight more levels, eight more trips around the perimeter of
      Azkaban, before they could find Hermione, get themselves and her
      out of here and somewhere safe, and Harry could begin to deal with
      Voldemort directly again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Five figures appeared in the backyard of the Burrow amidst a
      whirlwind of color. A moment later the backdoor burst open and a
      tearful Molly Weasley rushed toward the group sobbing, "Ginny, oh
      Ginny!" She hugged both Ginny and Ron, who was still holding her,
      as Fred, George and Tonks stood smiling happily (and also a little
      sadly) at the scene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All too soon, Molly stopped hugging and started talking, her
      manner suddenly brisk and efficient. "Alright, then. We need to get
      Ginny to safety right away. Can she walk?" she asked Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can walk, Mum," Ginny said, her voice a raspy whisper. "Put
      me down, Ron." Ron complied, but still held onto her as her feet
      touched the ground. As he started to let her take her weight her
      legs began to wobble. She looked at Ron. "I think I need a
      Pepper-Up," she said, huskily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have some in the house!" Molly said, turning to run
      inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never mind," Ginny called, her voice louder than before.
      Turning back to Ron, she said, "Hit me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grinned and punched her softly in the arm with his free
      hand. "Ha-ha," Ginny snarled. "You prat. Hit me with a Rennervate,
      doofus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smiling, Ron pulled out his wand and held the tip a few inches
      from her chest. "<em class="calibre7">Rennervate</em>," he said, and Ginny jerked as
      the spell took effect. She took a step away from Ron, but still
      held his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think that's done it," she said, nodding. "Now, where are we
      going?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come with me, dear," Molly said, putting an arm around Ginny to
      help her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum," Fred said, stopping her and Ginny. He turned to Tonks.
      "Maybe you should go with them," he suggested. "You might want to
      disappear for a while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are they going?" Tonks asked, warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We set up a special place for Ginny to hide when we busted her
      out of Azkaban," Fred explained. "Mum's the Secret Keeper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good advice," George told Tonks. "Can't imagine Malfoy will be
      happy with you, especially if he saw your name with ours on the
      Marauder's Map."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not," Tonks agreed unhappily. She looked torn about
      going into hiding. Finally, she sighed resignedly. "Okay, what the
      hell. I can keep Ginny company." She walked over to where Molly and
      Ginny were waiting for her and put an arm around Ginny as well,
      helping to support her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry, dear," Molly patted Tonks on the shoulder.
      "Everything will be fine, my boys will see to that. Now, let's get
      you and Ginny squared away." The three of them walked out into the
      back yard toward the old broom shack that stood behind their
      garden. Molly whispered something into Ginny's ear, then leaned
      behind her and whispered something to Tonks. Looking back at her
      sons, she made a spinning motion with her finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George immediately turned around, and Ron followed
      suit. When they looked back a minute later, the three women were
      gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's that," Fred said happily, slumping with
      exhaustion. He rubbed his neck tiredly and looked at George. "D'you
      think Mum has any butterbeers in the —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All hell broke loose again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dozen Aurors suddenly popped into existence around Fred,
      George and Ron, surrounding them. "Go!" Fred shouted, but when he
      tried to Disapparate he slammed into an Anti-Disapparition ward. He
      shook his head, dazed by the unpleasant sensation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several cries of "<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus</em>!" and three wands flew
      into the air, leaving the Weasley brothers unable to attack,
      defend, or escape. They automatically put their backs to each
      other, ready to do something — anything — if any of the Aurors came
      close enough to them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a few final Apparition <em class="calibre7">cracks</em> some distance
      away. A moment later Draco Malfoy stepped into the ring of Aurors
      surrounding them, followed by Crabbe and Goyle. "<em class="calibre7">Here</em> you
      are," he said with mock surprise. "You know, I thought I
      <em class="calibre7">just</em> saw your names on a certain piece of parchment you
      used to have. Would you know anything about that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred hesitated only a moment before letting his defensive
      posture flow into an elaborate half-bow directed toward Malfoy.
      "Evening, Minister," he said. "Nice of you to drop by. I see you
      brought a few friends with you. You saw our names on a piece of
      parchment, you say? I've no doubt you have many pieces of parchment
      with our names on them," he smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy smiled as well. "It was a <em class="calibre7">particular</em> piece of
      parchment, as I'm sure you recall. It's titled 'The Marauder's
      Map.' Quite an interesting document, if I do say so — it shows the
      castle grounds and every being at Hogwart, whether they're living,
      a ghost, or whatever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George and Ron frowned worriedly, but Fred's smile remained in
      place. "That's very interesting, Minister. But —" Fred leaned
      forward, a curious expression on his face. "How do you know that
      what this so-called Marauder's Map is showing you is real?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy snorted derisively. "What would make you think it's not,
      Weasley?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did the Hogwarts security system record that any of us were
      there?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Malfoy snapped. "But you designed the security system,
      probably using the Map!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that were true, wouldn't our names have shown up in the
      security system, then?" Fred pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not if you keyed yourself into the system and told it to ignore
      you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred shrugged; he'd let Malfoy have that point. But — "For
      another thing," he went on, "Hogwarts is Unplottable, so you
      <em class="calibre7">can't</em> show its layout on a map."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it clearly does!" Malfoy argued. He took a blank piece of
      parchment out of his robes and shook it at Fred. "I saw your name
      appear on it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred chuckled. "You saw the words 'Fred Weasley' on a piece of
      parchment that's supposed to be of an Unplottable location. Come
      now, Minister — doesn't that sound a bit silly to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Malfoy growled. "I watched your name appear at the edge of
      the Map, then suddenly it was in the infirmary. All of your names,
      in fact," he added, pointing at George and Ron, who were now facing
      Malfoy behind Fred, grinning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you can't Apparate within the grounds of Hogwarts," Fred
      merrily pointed out, enjoying this little cat-and-mouse game with
      Malfoy, keeping him distracted from his real mission here. "You
      should know that, Minister."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You used a Portkey," Malfoy growled, not liking this game at
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Portkeys are warded, too," Fred shook his head. "How could we
      get through the wards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't matter," Malfoy snarled dismissively. "We're not
      here to debate the hows or whys of the Marauder's Map —!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's good, because you clearly don't know much about it,"
      Fred retorted, deadpan. George and Ron both lowered their heads to
      smother their laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're <em class="calibre7">here</em>," Malfoy said loudly, finally losing his
      patience, "to arrest you three, as well as Auror Nymphadora Tonks,
      on the charge of freeing a prisoner that was being held in the
      infirmary until she could be returned to prison — your sister,
      Ginevra Weasley Thomas. Where is she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred glanced back at Ron and George, both of whom just shrugged.
      "We don't know where she is," he told Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about in there?" Malfoy asked, jerking a thumb at the
      Burrow. "You sure you don't know, Weasley? Because if you do and
      you don't tell us, it's obstruction of justice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you want me to do, chug a bottle of Veritaserum?" Fred
      sneered. "I really can't tell you where she is." Which was true
      enough; Fred knew there was a location protected by a Fidelius
      Charm, but he couldn't tell Malfoy anything about it — neither he,
      George nor Ron were the Secret Keeper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's your mother, Molly?" Malfoy asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't know," Ron answered in an irritated tone. "Maybe you
      should go look for her!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you want to file a missing wizard report?" Malfoy asked,
      blandly. Without waiting for an answer he turned to his Auror
      Teams. "Search the house and the yard. I want Level Three searches
      on everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three Weasley brothers were escorted to the edge of the
      Burrow's property to watch the searches unfold. "What do you
      think?" George muttered as they stood there just outside the
      perimeter established by the Aurors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Level Three is pretty thorough," Fred said softly, after
      checking that there were no Extendable Ears or other spy spells on
      them. "But it still won't find a Fidelius. I'm just glad none of us
      are the Secret Keeper — they can't make us take Veritaserum and
      force the location out of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hurray," Ron muttered. "It still looks like we'll be going to
      Azkaban ourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Man up, Ronnie," Fred said, giving him a disapproving glare.
      "Better us than Ginny." Ron nodded agreement, though he still
      wasn't happy about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later the search looked to be winding down. Of
      course neither Ginny nor Molly had turned up in the search. Malfoy
      was conferring with his two right-hand goons, Crabbe and Goyle —
      probably with a Quietus Charm in place to prevent anyone from
      overhearing them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They look a bit miffed," George dryly observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They don't like it much when they lose at hide-and-seek," Ron
      quipped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Their next move will be to interrogate us," Fred muttered,
      still keeping his voice low. "They've probably guessed a Fidelius
      is in place, but we don't want to give them <em class="calibre7">any</em> more
      information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't, can we?" Ron frowned. "I mean, it's a bloody
      Fidelius, for Merlin's sake! The magic prevents us from talking
      about it if anyone who doesn't know about it could hear us!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the idea," Fred agreed, "but stay on your toes
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two Aurors came over and walked the trio back to where Malfoy
      and his subordinates were standing. Malfoy appeared to be reading a
      report, but nobody believed he was really reading — it was more
      likely a ploy to psych out the Weasleys, who didn't appear to be
      falling for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy finally looked up at them. His expression was calm and
      collected, though his eyes — Fred watched the man's grey eyes as
      they stared at him and his brothers; there seemed to be no respect
      or compassion at all there. "Well, your sister and mum aren't here,
      of course," he said, quietly. "Nor is Auror Tonks, who we also saw
      was with you at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe that's what that supposed Map showed you," Fred hedged.
      "But unless you can bring them to the Wizengamot all you have is
      us. And we don't know where any of them are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That remains to be seen," Malfoy replied. He stood quietly for
      several moments, rubbing his chin with an index finger, staring at
      the three Weasleys. "I might be wrong, but I think there's a
      Fidelius involved in all this. What do you think?" His grey eyes
      moved from Fred to George then back to Ron; if he was using
      Legilimency it was hard to tell, there was no wand in his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three brothers shook their heads and Fred answered for them.
      "You can think whatever you like, Malfoy, but we don't know where
      they are and we wouldn't tell you if we did. If that means you're
      going to take us in for obstruction of justice, do what you've
      gotta do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose we could go that way," Malfoy murmured, waving a hand
      airily, "but I think we'll just dispense with the bureaucratic
      bullshit and get right down to it." He pointed at George. "Him
      first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle's wand was instantly out. "<em class="calibre7">Crucio</em>!" he shouted
      and George dropped to the ground, screaming in agony.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy! WHAT THE FUCK?! STOP IT!" Both Fred and Ron were
      screaming at the Minister. They tried to charge forward into Goyle,
      to knock him down and stop the curse, but Impediment Jinxes from
      other Aurors held them back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After about ten seconds Goyle raised his wand and George stopped
      screaming, though he was still gasping loudy as aftershocks of the
      pain reverberated in his brain. Malfoy was giving Fred an even
      look. "Want to tell us now where your sister and mum are?" he
      asked, expectantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You maniac!" Fred screamed. "You can't use Unforgiveables on
      people!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy smiled. "You don't think so, Weasley? Didn't you read
      that I reinstituted the Monroe Act when I took over as Minister?
      The Wizengamot approved it by a wide margin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean your father's bought-and-paid-for votes approved it,"
      Fred snarled. He bent down to check on his broher. "All right
      there, George?" he asked quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yeah, I'm having a ball," George said, his voice barely a
      whisper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ready to tell us where they are?" Malfoy asked. "Or do you need
      more convincing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred stood furiously, facing Malfoy. "I don't know!" he shouted
      angrily. "I'm not —" he hesitated. "I've got nothing to tell you,"
      he finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy gestured toward Crabbe, who whipped out his wand and
      pointed it at Ron. "<em class="calibre7">Crucio</em>!" he cried, and Ron fell to the
      ground screaming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop! Stop!" Fred pleaded, watching helplessly as his youngest
      brother thrashed around on the ground. "Crucio <em class="calibre7">me</em> if you
      think I'm the Secret Keeper!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who said I think <em class="calibre7">that</em>?" Malfoy asked, shrugging.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop it! Stop it, you bastards!" A new voice made several
      Aurors spin around, their wands at the ready, where they saw Molly
      Weasley charging toward them from the backyard of the Burrow.
      "Leave them alone!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Molly was quickly disarmed and captured, then brought to Malfoy.
      She glared defiantly up at him as he smiled condescendingly at her.
      "Mrs. Weasley, I'm so pleased you decided to join us. I hope you
      can put an end to this futile resistance your sons have been
      putting up in an effort to protect your daughter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Molly was older and thinner, but she'd lost none of the temper
      she was famous for in her earlier days. "Malfoy, you horrid,
      pathetic little worm, how you ever managed to become Minister of
      Magic I'll never understand! In a month you've managed to set back
      years of progress in the Wizarding world! If you think you're
      <em class="calibre7">ever</em> going to see Ginny again you are sadly mistaken!
      She's safely away from your horrible prison and she's
      <em class="calibre7">never</em> going back!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't be too sure of that," Malfoy said, coldly. He was
      infuriated by the tongue-lashing this old woman was giving him but
      none of it showed in his cool, calm demeanor. "I assume
      <em class="calibre7">you</em> are the Secret Keeper for your daughter's Fidelius
      hideaway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Molly hesitated a bare moment before answering. "Of course not!"
      she snapped. "Why would I come here if I knew you were looking for
      that person, assuming there <em class="calibre7">is</em> a Secret Keeper in the
      first place!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we can easily find out," Malfoy said mildly, giving a nod
      to Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The big Auror pointed his wand at Molly. "<em class="calibre7">Crucio</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Molly fell to the ground, screams ripped from her by the
      agonizing pain the Cruciatus Curse produced. The three Weasley
      brothers started to jump forward, but wands pointed at them from
      all directions forced them to stand still, watching in anguish as
      their mother suffered horribly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After what seemed like an eternity Crabbe lowered his wand,
      leaving Molly sobbing in silence. "You know," Malfoy said casually,
      examining his fingernails, "I can have them keep this up all day.
      You'll probably go insane after a few minutes, but a few drops of
      Veritaserum <em class="calibre7">might</em> get you to tell where your daughter is
      hidden. And if not," he shrugged indifferently. "Well, she'll have
      to leave her hidey-hole eventually to get food, supplies, and so
      on, because everyone else here will be in Azkaban or St. Mungo's
      and won't be able to help her at all." Malfoy looked at the Aurors
      surrounding the Weasley brothers. "Let them go to her — this will
      probably be the last time they ever see her again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Aurors stepped back and the three brothers rushed to Molly's
      side. Fred knelt and lifted her head tenderly. Molly was trembling
      from the effects of the Cruciatus. George leaned close to her and
      whispered, "Mum, you can't take much more of that. Tell them
      <em class="calibre7">I'm</em> the Secret Keeper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, me," Fred whispered in her other ear. "Tell them it's
      Fred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know we can hear you morons whispering," Malfoy said, and
      several Aurors around him laughed derisively. "You'd better hurry
      up and agree on who the Secret Keeper is before we Crucio the lot
      of you and go to Plan B."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked up at Malfoy in rage. Without speaking he suddenly
      launched himself upward, swinging wildly, and one of his fists
      connected with Malfoy's nose, breaking it and making the Minister
      stagger back in pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy held his nose in both hands, shock and pain written
      across his face, as Ron watched him, teeth bared and arms ready to
      begin flailing again. Malfoy's eyes seemed to flash red for a
      moment before his hand moved. Faster than anyone imagined, his wand
      was out and he slashed it at Ron, screaming
      "<em class="calibre7">Sectumsempra</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron fell to the ground , a slash across his chest rapidly
      turning his shirt red. His left arm spun away, sliced at
      mid-forearm, and fell in the dirt. "Get him to St. Mungo's," Malfoy
      said painfully, cupping his nose with his free hand, and two Aurors
      took hold of Ron; one activated his emergency Portkey and the three
      of them vanished. Another Auror hurried forward and looked at
      Malfoy's injury, applying a quick spell to fix the nose. Malfoy
      irritably waved her away and looked down at Molly and the remaining
      Weasleys who were staring at him in horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have you done to Ron?" Fred whispered, mentally cringing
      at the memory of Ron's arm flopping to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will they be able to reattach that arm?" George asked
      anxiously, worried because it had been magically severed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid not," Malfoy said coldly. "They'll be able to fix
      the wound to his chest, but the arm is gone forever." He touched
      his nose gingerly. "He shouldn't have attacked me, so he got what
      he deserved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What he <em class="calibre7">deserved</em>?!" Molly Weasley bolted upright
      despite still being weak from the Cruciatus. "You bloody bastard!
      If you want to talk about what's deserved you deserve to be chopped
      to bits and fed to a nundu!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounded like a threat," Malfoy said dangerously, pointing
      his wand at the Weasleys as a group. "I am no longer in the mood to
      hear threats —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, <em class="calibre7">enough</em>," a new voice said. Ginny Thomas and
      Tonks were standing just beyond the ring of Aurors watching Malfoy
      and the Weasley brothers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Molly Weasley had heard her daughter's voice. "Ginny, noooo!"
      she moaned, covering her face with her hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Mum," Ginny said. "This has gone too far already." To
      Malfoy she said, "Alright, Minister, I'm here. Let my mum and
      brothers go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy shook his head, looking very happy. "Can't do that,
      Thomas. They're guilty of aiding and abetting a convicted murderer.
      And so are you, Auror," he added, staring coldly at Tonks. "I'm
      very disappointed, as are your fellow Aurors, I'm sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give me a break," Tonks retorted hotly. "You're just happy
      these ball-less flobberworms didn't have the guts to stand up to
      you and your goonsquad for all the shit you've pulled the last —"
      her voice cut off as Malfoy pointed his wand at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very good," he said to the others assembled around him. "Now
      that we have Thomas back, we'll be taking her back to Azkaban." He
      looked at Fred, Ron and George. "I suppose you three can come along
      as well, to watch her go back in." He pointed to two junior Aurors.
      "Griffen, you and Blackthorne bring Molly Weasley to HQ, put her in
      one of the detention cells until I return. And you two," he said to
      Crabbe and Goyle, "take Auror Tonks back and put her in the most
      secure cell we have. With any luck, we should arrive at Azkaban
      just in time to see Harry Potter recaptured."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dozen or or so Disapparition <em class="calibre7">cracks</em> later the back
      yard of Burrow stood empty once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For a search and rescue mission," Sirius complained as he,
      Remus and Harry followed Harry's Patronus through level four of
      A-section, "this has all been pretty boring. And I'm getting pretty
      tired of being the pack mule of this group." He hefted the bolt
      cutters he'd been using to remove the locks from the doors along
      each section.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just be thankful I had those in my pouch," Remus retorted
      dryly. "And that we haven't had to use them yet." He shrugged. "It
      could have been a lot trickier, however — if I didn't have the bolt
      cutters we might've have to use the Universal Solvent Solution I
      have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have Universal Solvent?" Harry asked, interestedly. They
      had been walking for several minutes along the A-spiral, following
      it upwards. So far none of the doors between sections had been
      locked or secured with a padlock. "Too bad we're going up. But it
      would have been very useful going down through this place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably," Remus agreed with a wry smile. "Especially if we
      wanted a hole below Azkaban reaching several miles deep in the
      Earth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "That could be Plan B, I guess — weaken the
      ground beneath it enough to drop it into the Earth's mantle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But when it went," Sirius pointed out, "you'd go with it, plus
      everyone else in the place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just details to be worked out," Harry muttered. He addressed
      his Patronus walking before them for the tenth time since beginning
      the walk up. "No sign of Hermione yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She is still above us," the Patronus answered. "Most likely she
      is section 2-A — I will know more precisely when we reach that
      level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then all we have to do is get her out of her cell," Sirius
      said, hefting the bolt cutters he held, "and in all likelihood
      fight our way through a dozen or more Aurors. Piece of cake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get that Universal Solvent ready," Harry said to Remus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're not using the Solvent on Azkaban," Remus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A short pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless we absolutely have to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled grimly. Their fight with half a dozen Aurors in the
      seventh-floor corridor of Hogwarts had been weird enough. He hoped
      to get Hermione out, make the walk back down to the lowest level,
      and get out the way they'd come in. So far their trip had been
      uneventful — they'd come upon no roving bands of Aurors nor had
      they heard any loud screaming from the inmates.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which, come to think of it, was strange.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius, how often did the Aurors patrol the corridors when you
      were a prisoner?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked thoughtful for a moment. "I don't know… it didn't
      seem like they did it very often, maybe to distribute water or our
      meals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Either we arrived between anything like that," Harry mused, "or
      something is going on. Patronus, have you sensed the presence of
      anyone in any of these cells since we arrived?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," the Patronus confirmed, "but the deepest level that
      contained prisoners the last time we were here was level 5, and
      Ginny was the only prisoner being held on that level. However, I
      sense no prisoners on this level or level Three of any of the
      spirals. The prisoners may have been moved after our escape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or before our arrival, perhaps?" Harry hypothesized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is possible," the Patronus agreed. "We should exercise
      caution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the understatement of the year," Sirius snorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you determine the location of the Aurors here?" Harry asked
      the Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not without getting close enough to them for their own
      Patronuses to notice me," the Patronus answered. "If Hermione is in
      level Two they may notice me anyway. It could be difficult to
      return the way we came if the Aurors lock down the prison and give
      chase."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That Universal Solvent is starting to look like an option,"
      Sirius quipped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus shook his head. "If you're thinking it'll just eat a big
      hole in all the floors between here and the bottom of Azkaban, it
      doesn't work that way. It would need to be bound into a circular
      area as it eats its way through the metal — I don't know how well
      that will work. And if anyone gets in its way…" Remus just shook
      his head. "The final problem would be lowering someone almost 800
      feet using a Levitation Charm. And there will be four of us,
      counting Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One complication at a time, please," Harry muttered tiredly,
      rubbing his temples. "I could sure use —" he cut himself off before
      finishing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Use what?" Sirius asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A drink," Harry finished, though that wasn't what he was
      thinking. He was about say he could sure use James Monroe's help
      getting Hermione, Sirius, Remus and himself out of here. But Remus
      had convinced him that seeing Monore had only been some kind of
      hallucination or delusion. They would have to get out of Azkaban on
      their own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No drinking until we're safely out of here," Remus said with a
      smile. "No use impairing yourself on top of what we've already got
      to deal with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They passed through section Three without incident and made
      their way toward the entrance of section 2-A.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they approached the door, however, the Patronus began to dim
      in intensity, becoming almost silver-gray as he stopped in front of
      the door leading to the section.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I sense humans on the other side of the door," it said,
      speaking softly, "in the main corridor as well as in the cells of
      this section. Their Patronuses are nearby but not within the
      section itself, probably to hide their presence from you. I have
      reduced my output so they will not feel any additional relief from
      the Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can tell," Sirius muttered in a low voice. "I can feel
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry shook his head. "I don't. I think you just think you
      feel them, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be that as it may," Remus put in. "We are at a stalemate unless
      we find a way to neutralize them and get Hermione —" he glanced at
      the Patronus "— I assume one of the people in the next section is
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," the Patronus nodded. "And the Weasley brothers Fred and
      George, and their sister Ginny Thomas as well," it added,
      surprisingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that tears it," Sirius grumbled resignedly. "If they
      caught the Weasleys they have to be onto us as well, don't they?
      What do we do now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wish you'd stop asking that question," Harry said, irritably.
      After a moment he looked at the Chief Warlock. "Er — so what
      <em class="calibre7">do</em> we do, Remus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snorted a laugh but covered his mouth to keep quiet.
      Harry spared him a momentary glare then looked Remus again, who was
      rubbing his chin thoughtfully. After several seconds of thinking
      Remus shrugged and said, "No idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry palmed his face. "I really don't know, Harry," Remus added
      apologetically. He turned to the Patronus. "What can you tell us
      about any Aurors on the other side of this door, if anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aurors are positioned in the far two corners of the corridor,"
      the Patronus answered. "But they seem to be near the ceiling, not
      the floor. I do not sense any magical spells on them other than
      Disillusionment, so they are probably using broomsticks. They have
      the advantage of position from which to cast spells, but are
      vulnerable to an attack that renders their brooms inoperative."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Broomsticks," Harry repeated. "If we can get ahold of those
      broomsticks they might be useful to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All eight cells of the middle cellblock are occupied, but four
      of the cells have Aurors Polyjuiced to look like Hermione, Ginny
      and the Weasley brothers," the Patronus continued. "The actual
      prisoners are Disillusioned and Body-Bound so they cannot call or
      signal for help. And I can sense at least two dozen more Aurors in
      the control section above us, 1-A."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're probably awaiting confirmation that we're here before
      they deploy more Aurors," Remus surmised. "So the first inkling
      these guys get that anything is amiss and we're probably going to
      be inundated by Aurors and Hit Wizards." He turned to Harry. "I
      suppose trying again another day is not an option?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said shortly. "We'll never have a better chance than
      we do right now — they'll always be expecting us from this point
      on, and security is only going to get tighter. Not to mention the
      fact that Hermione and three of the Weasleys are imprisoned in
      here, and I don't think Malfoy will let any of them have a fair
      trial now. Especially since you're compromised now as well, Remus."
      Harry looked down at the floor. "I'm sorry for that, it wasn't what
      I —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry about it," Remus replied gently. "I may have some
      political tricks I can bring to bear against Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of tricks," Harry went on, nodding to the mokeskin
      pouch on Remus's belt. "I think it's time to delve into your bag of
      tricks and see what we can come up with to free Hermione and the
      Weasleys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nearly fifteen minutes later Harry and the two Marauders had
      come up with a plan of attack. To keep noise down during their work
      they each cast a Quietus Charm on themselves; their voices and any
      noise made by an object they held would not be heard by anyone
      other than the individual. To communicate, Remus handed out
      Extendable Ears to each of them; to speak to one another they would
      grasp the listening end of the Ear and hold it — the other end, in
      one of their ears, would be able to pick up the sounds they made
      but no one else could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The plan wasn't complicated, but what it lack in complexity it
      more than made up in danger. Remus had taken his bottle of
      Universal Solvent, two globes of Sunlight Potion, a potion Harry
      had used during Quirrell's battle games in his first year, three
      green goggles, and his bottle of Soverign Glue from his pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now they just had to take out the Aurors guarding the far end of
      the corridor, neutralize the Aurors pretending to be Hermione and
      the Weasleys, free the actual prisoners, prevent the Aurors in the
      control level from coming after them, and get the hell out of here
      with everybody safe. Like Sirius had said earlier, a piece of
      cake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus was holding Harry and Sirius's Extendable Ears. "We can
      assume that, even if the lamps are on in the next section the
      brightness of the Sunlight globes will be enough to dazzle the
      Aurors." Each of them were wearing the green goggles that would
      filter out most of the purple-white light of the globes. "When they
      break they will spill the light enclosed inside. Harry, you and
      Remus will Stun them and retrieve their brooms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Put them on the other side of the corridor door leading out of
      2-A then use this —" he handed Harry the bottle of Sovereign Glue
      "— on the door to seal it shut. Then come back to the cell block
      where Hermione and the others are.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now here's the part I don't like," Remus admitted. "Sirius,
      when you get back to the cell block door I'll cancel the
      Unbreakable Charm on the Universal Solvent. You then throw the
      bottle, making sure it's far enough away from us that none of it
      splatters on anyone! That's going to eat a hole in all the floors
      of the prison, probably down to the Earth's mantle if not further.
      It will take a little while to get through all the metal floors,
      which will give us time to do what we're going to do next.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If the Aurors haven't rushed out of their cells pretending to
      be the prisoners who've <em class="calibre7">conveniently</em> escaped while we're
      breaking them out —" Remus smiled ironically "— we can have Harry's
      Patronus identify who's in each cell. We will seal the Aurors in
      the cells, release Hermione, Fred, George and Ginny, and use the
      brooms we've captured to fly down to the bottom level and Portkey
      out of the central pit, hopefully before the Solvent has reached
      the mantle and molten rock comes shooting up from the hole it made,
      providing a distraction for our escape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was smiling broadly. "Easy as cake," he said, holding
      onto Remus and Harry's Ear ends. Harry palmed his face again, while
      Remus just shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Glad you think so," Remus said dryly. "Are you ready?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was born rea —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Remus said, cutting Sirius off. He placed the two
      globes of Sunlight Potion on the floor. "Just be careful not to
      swallow these things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ready, Harry?" Remus asked. Harry nodded, not bothering with
      the Extendable Ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius dropped to the floor, transforming to his Animagus dog
      form. He picked up the two globes in hi mouth and positioned
      himself next to the door. Harry got behind him, smiling at the
      green goggles Sirius was still wearing, and Remus stepped behind
      the door, taking hold of the handle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus yanked the door open and both Sirius and Harry charged
      into the corridor, Harry with his wand at the ready to counter any
      curses coming from the Disillusioned Aurors. The gas lamps
      <em class="calibre7">were</em> on in this corridor, which would have alerted them if
      they'd simply walked in, but they probably would have been Stunned
      or immobilized before they could mount a defense. Red bolts shot
      from the upper far corners of the corridor, as expected, and Harry
      batted them aside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had pulled away from Harry, running twice as fast as he
      could, and as he crossed the midpoint of the corridor he leapt into
      the air, transforming and spitting out the Sunlight globes, then
      catching them in either hand. He windmilled his arms, throwing the
      globes toward the corners of the room. A red bolt shattered one
      globe, scattering dazzlingly bright purpule-white light in the air;
      the other globe hit an invisible object and exploded into another
      mini-sunburst.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were twin <em class="calibre7">thuds</em> as two bodies hit the floor.
      Harry sent Stunners into one corner while Sirius targeted the
      other; after a few shots apiece the unconscious bodies of the
      Aurors appeared. Harry spared a quick glance over his shoulder to
      make sure Remus was guarding the cell block where Hermione and the
      others were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Running up to the two unconscious men Harry began feeling around
      on the floor for broomsticks. Following his lead Sirius did the
      same in the other corner. After several seconds Harry found what
      felt like a broomstick and cast the counter for the Disillusionment
      Charm on it. Sirius had already found his and slid the broom along
      the metal floor toward Remus, then Levitated the unconscious Auror
      and began moving him toward the section door marked 1-A.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on, Harry," Sirius laughed as he canceled his Quietus
      spell, seeing Harry was slower than him. "Let's get this show on
      the road." He pushed open the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius, wait!" Harry hissed. "Did you check the other side for
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Stunbolt flashed through the open doorway, slamming into
      Sirius's chest and knocking him to the ground. Another Stunner,
      aimed for Harry, was deflected by him as he jumped on the broom
      he'd just captured and took to the air. It had been a while since
      he'd been on a broom but it was still very familiar to him. Just
      below the ceiling he stopped and spun around, pointing his wand at
      the open door. "<em class="calibre7">Accio</em> door!" he shouted, but the door
      didn't budge. Another Stunner narrowly missed him and Harry spun
      again, flying the broom toward where Remus was firing Stunners of
      his own toward the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quick, inside!" Harry shouted, slashing his wand at the padlock
      on the cellblock door. The padlock fell apart and Harry grabbed the
      handle, yanking the door open to provide a barrier against the
      curses coming from the other end of the section.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus dashed inside the door, and Harry pulled it shut, reaching
      into his pocket and pulling the bottle of Sovereign Glue. He
      applied a thin line of the material along the top and on each side
      of the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Remus asked in a low voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They must've been waiting for us," Harry whispered back.
      "Sirius didn't check the other side of the door!" He looked around
      wildly. "Where's my Patronus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It vanished while you were fighting the Aurors," Remus said. "I
      thought you sent it somewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I must've gotten too distracted," Harry groaned. "I've got
      to get it back —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Four cell doors flew open and Hermione, Fred, George and Ginny
      rushed out. Except the weren't really who they were supposed to be
      — Harry could tell by the wands in their hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't move, Potter!" Fred's Polyjuice twin shouted, and both
      Remus and Harry looked at each other for a bare moment before
      silently agreeing they were outmatched and raised their hands in
      the air, giving up. As the Aurors warily approached them, out of
      the side of his mouth Remus muttered, "Time for Plan B."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started to laugh, but a Stunner from an Auror wand dropped
      him to the floor and everything went black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sometime later Harry, Sirius and Remus found themselves bound
      and seated in the control section of Azkaban, surrounded by Aurors
      and, worst of all, being lectured by Minister Malfoy, who was
      enjoying himself immensely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I cannot believe, Potter," Malfoy was saying, "is that you
      managed to corrupt the <em class="calibre7">Chief Warlock</em> to your nefarious
      plans. It was unlikely enough that you got a long-term prisoner
      like Black to help you, but the Chief Warlock? I am amazed and
      disappointed with you, Lupin," Malfoy shook his head in mock
      sadness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe if you hadn't kept sending in your supposedly-dead
      lackey, Peter Pettigrew, to torment me we wouldn't have figured out
      what you were up to," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy chuckled. "Pettigrew? Really? The man's been dead for 35
      years now, Potter, and you're going to try to resurrect him to make
      me look bad?" He grinned wolfishly. "Who else do you plan to
      resurrect? James Monroe perhaps, the man you murdered?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't respond to that, but Sirius spoke up. "We'll find
      out the truth soon enough at the retrial, when you question me
      under Veritaserum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy's eyebrows shot up. "Why would we have a retrial,
      exactly? Because the Chief Warlock planned to call for one? The man
      who aided and abetted you after you escaped from prison? I don't
      think you should look forward to that trial, Mr. Black — you're
      going back into a cell. After we've made some modifications to
      remove the windows that made it easier for you to escape. And after
      your Animagus form has been neutralized." Sirius paled upon hearing
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy looked at Remus. "You, on the other hand, will be given a
      trial before the Wizengamot, Mr. Lupin, as soon as we've found a
      Chief Warlock <em class="calibre7">pro tem</em>. That may be a little difficult, you
      understand, since we've never done anything like that before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe <em class="calibre7">you</em> should consider the position, Malfoy," Lupin
      answered tightly. "Since you already hold the positions of Head
      Auror and Minister of Magic now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps I will," Malfoy said, smilling. He turned to Harry.
      "And you, Potter. All that running around rescuing Ginny Thomas and
      sending my men on wild goose chases ended up for naught, didn't it?
      Now she's back in prison, and her brothers Fred and George are
      awaiting their own trials, while Ron Weasley will end up missing an
      arm for the rest of his life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because of <em class="calibre7">your</em> dark spell," Harry snapped. "You
      should be on trial for <em class="calibre7">that</em>, if nothing else!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Monroe Act authorizes Aurors to use dark spells, including
      the Unforgiveables, if required to in the line of duty," Malfoy
      pointed out. "And as Mr. Lupin rightly stated, I am still acting in
      the capacity of Head Auror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good work, everyone," Malfoy turned, addressed the Aurors
      present. "We're taking Lupin back to the Ministry — I'll want him
      tried by the Wizengamot as soon as possible. To those on duty here
      at Azkaban, make sure Black and Potter are locked away as securely
      as possible. Dismissed!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Aurors dispersed to go about their duties, Malfoy took
      one of the long-time Azkaban guards by the arm and drew him aside
      to speak privately. "I'm a little concerned about Potter," he told
      the man, one of the few he trusted to do his bidding just as Crabbe
      and Goyle did. "He's been entirely too much trouble these past few
      days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Auror nodded agreement. "I wonder if I should arrange for
      one of the Dementors to Kiss him?" he suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too obvious," Malfoy shook his head. "What about that cell I
      had you set up? Have you used it on anyone yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir." The Auror smiled evilly. "I understand. It will look
      like an accident. If there's an investigation we can blame it on
      the maintenance — in the worst case a house-elf can be blamed for
      being negligent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," Malfoy agreed. "You're about due for a bonus," he
      smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll take care of it," Auror Lesath Lestrange told him. He
      nodded slowly. "It will be a pleasure, sir. I've been waiting for a
      chance to pay Potter back for a long time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Malfoy was mildly interested. "What did he do to
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not what he did," Lestrange answered. "It's what he
      <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Malfoy was puzzled by the cryptic response he didn't react.
      "Carry on," was all he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few quick orders to subordinate Aurors and Harry was suddenly
      pulled to his feet and led away followed by protests and questions
      from Remus and Sirius, taken to the C-spiral, section 2-C, and
      placed in a cell that looked every bit as nice as the holding cells
      in 2-A. The cot and mattress in the cell was new, and the sink and
      toilet were both in pristine shape. There were even two gas lamps
      in the upper corners of the room on either side of the door. The
      two Aurors pushed him into the cell, one saying "Enjoy your stay,
      murderer," before spitting on the floor and slamming the door
      closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around the room. The windows in the side walls
      weren't present in this cell, but they hadn't been in the holding
      cells in 2-A, either. Apparently that had only been done in the
      regular cells. Harry sat on the bed, bouncing up and down on the
      mattress. It was not very soft but it was better than sleeping on a
      bare cot. There was even a blanket and sheets on the bed! That was
      rather unusual, Harry thought — he would have expected a bare room
      with nothing in it at all rather than "V.I.P." accomdations like
      this for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't sure how long he sat there before the cell door
      began to open — he noticed that it lacked a viewing window and a
      food door, unlike the cell he'd been in before — another unusual
      difference. An Auror carrying a food tray with a cup and bowl on it
      stepped into the room. "Figured we'd better feed you," he said
      gruffly. "You won't be getting fed again until tomorrow — we can't
      have you being mistreated, can we?" He laughed, setting the tray on
      the floor and backing out of the room, closing the door which made
      a strange squelching noise as it sealed shut, reminding Harry of an
      Inperturbable Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't moved or spoken while the Auror was in the room. He
      stood, slowly, and walked over to the tray, picking it up and
      looking at the food in the bowl. Stew again, and lukewarm water to
      drink. He eyed the food suspiciously; if Malfoy wanted him dead
      there were any number of poisons he might have added to the food
      somehow. He walked back to his bed, setting the tray on the small
      table next to the cot, and began to think about what his next move
      should be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There weren't many options, of course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not only was he, Sirius and Ginny back in Azkaban for murders
      they didn't commit, but Malfoy had put Hermione in as well, trying
      to force Harry to surrender. And Fred, George and Remus were now
      accused of crimes that would land them in Azkaban as well, assuming
      they were even tried for those crimes! Harry was wandless again,
      exhausted, and even though there were only a few Dementors left in
      the prison, depressed and unable to work up any determination to
      free himself and the others. He wasn't sure how it could get much
      worse. He rubbed his eyes tiredly, wondering if he should try to
      get some sleep before trying to figure out his next move — the room
      was becoming dimmer, as if he were about to fall asleep sitting up
      on his cot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Glancing up at the gas lamps, Harry watched them for several
      seconds. It wasn't his eyes that were going out — it was the lamps!
      As he watched they dimmed considerablely then winked out. What was
      this, lights out for the night?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he heard the sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was barely audible, but Harry could hear a soft hissing
      sound. At first he wondered if they had set a snake loose in the
      cell, perhaps a poisonous one, but the sound was far too steady and
      regular to be a live snake. Then he smelled it, too — the smell of
      gas. The lamps had gone out, but the gas was still on, and it
      seemed to be building up in the cell. Harry reached beneath his
      cot, where the small vent hole that pushed air into the room, but
      he felt air flowing <em class="calibre7">out</em> through the hole, not in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So that was it. Malfoy was going to kill him by asphyxiation, by
      replacing the air in the room with gas he couldn't breathe. Harry
      sighed, defeated. He could pound on the cell door, but what Auror
      was going to respond to him? "All the things I've been through," he
      muttered to himself. "And now to die in Azkaban, not from Dementors
      sucking the life from me or in a firefight with Aurors, but from
      breathing natural gas…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared helpless into the dark. Without a wand there was
      nothing he could do about his predicament except wait for
      unconsciousness and death to claim him. Maybe if he hadn't lost
      half of his intelligence he could have come up with something to
      get himself out of this. As things stood, however, without a
      miraculous save, somehow, he was doomed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "Where's Luke Skywalker when you really need
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">A/N: This chapter begins the end of this story. I will
      release a new chapter each Friday until the conclusion. I hope you
      enjoyed reading</strong> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">Methods of Chaos</strong></em>
      <strong class="calibre8">and ask that you leave a review, however short, letting me
      know what you think of these final few chapters.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
