<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 4: Interrogation 101, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Interrogation 101</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Updated 12/02/2011</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You know, love, we</em> are <em class="calibre7">alone in here. You can say
      'piss' if you want to.</em><em class="calibre7">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Monroe awoke he found himself sitting in a small,
      nondescript room, his arms resting on the arms of the chair he was
      seated in. There was nothing else in the room but a large mirror on
      one wall, which Monroe immediately pegged as "two-way." There was
      no clock, no table, no other chairs, It was, he supposed, a typical
      interrogation room in a typical London police station, which he had
      fortunately never been in before (until now).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first question Monroe planned for his would-be interrogators
      was, <em class="calibre7">Why am I here</em>? He'd tried to ask the two men who'd
      taken him in, but before he could get any answers out of them he
      was already here. Had he passed out, or had they done something
      like taser him? He couldn't remembering being hit with an electric
      shock, though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time passed, how much, Monroe couldn't say; his watch was no
      longer on his wrist. He'd tried to check his jacket pocket for his
      Record-A-Pen, but his arms were affixed to the chair, somehow, and
      he couldn't pull them loose. Whatever was going on here, he was
      just going to have to wait until they came to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two large men entered the room, and Monroe sat up straight (at
      least, as much as he could, considering his arms were stuck to the
      chair), watching them warily. The larger of the pair had brown hair
      and seemed to wear a perpetual sneer on his face. The smaller man
      (though not smaller by much) had a crew cut and his dark hair
      looked coarse and bristly. He regarded Monroe with pinched
      expression, as if he would have preferred being in a badly
      maintained restroom rather than where he was. They were both
      dressed in black overcoats, shirts and pants with shiny black
      boots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The larger of the two men seemed to be in charge. He positioned
      himself in front of Monroe while the other one stood off to one
      side, watching them. Both of them were regarding him with
      calculating looks. Monroe, for his part, could only stare
      impassively back at them until one of them decided to speak. It
      didn't take long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What," the big (okay, bigger) man, in a deep but surprisingly
      soft voice asked, "do you know about magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic?" Monroe gave him an inquiring, puzzled look. "What do
      you mean — like, 'Hey Rocky, watch me pull a rabbit out my hat?'
      magic, or what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The big man hesitated, confused. "Er — what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never saw that show?" Monroe wondered. "Maybe they never showed
      it here in England."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two men looked at one another. "Never mind that," the big
      man said, irritably. "You know why you're here, doncha?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," Monroe replied. "I just got out of an interview
      with Harry Potter-Evans-Verres and was on my way home to write it
      up, and you two came out of nowhere, knocked me out, and I woke up
      here. I'm still waiting to hear what you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What we <em class="calibre7">want</em>," the other behemoth said, in a
      threatening tone. "Is for you to tell us what you an' Potter talked
      about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The S-Singularity," Monroe answered, hesitantly. He had a
      feeling these guys would have <em class="calibre7">no idea</em> what that was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was right. The two men looked at one another again. "Are we
      supposed to know what that is?" the smaller man asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," the bigger man said, dismissively. "Mr. Malfoy says it's
      some Muggle thing Potter's working on. He says it's not going to
      happen for a long time, if ever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How does Mr. Malfoy know that?" Monroe asked, wondering who
      this Malfoy character was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Cause Mr. Malfoy's Head Auror an' he knows loads of stuff a
      stupid Muggle like you don't," the smaller man snarled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I know what the Singularity is," Monroe replied, emboldened
      by their ignorance. "And apparently neither of you do. So both of
      you are more stupid than a Muggle." Whatever <em class="calibre7">that</em> was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both men stiffened. "This 'Singularity' nonsense is Muggle fairy
      tales!" the larger man snarled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe almost laughed. "It seems to me that you're just taking
      this Mr. Malfoy's word, and not trying to find out for
      yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It ain't our <em class="calibre7">job</em> to find out for ourselves!" the other
      man said. "It's our job to —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's your job to do what you're told!" a new voice interjected.
      Both men looked around. Standing in the door was a tall, thin blond
      man, his hair flowing freely about his head. He had pale, sharp
      features, and was dressed similarly to the first two men. "I didn't
      tell you to question the detainee."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We thought we'd warm him up for you, Boss," the smaller man
      muttered. "He doesn't want to talk —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't call me 'Boss,'" the blond snapped. "And of course he
      doesn't want to talk! Both of you —" he jerked a thumb at the door.
      "— get out. I'm going to talk to him alone. Go file your daily
      reports — it'll be time for us to go home soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both of the behemoths nodded, looking cowed by this new man's
      presence, and quickly beat a path to the door. After they were
      gone, the blond man stood regarding Monroe for several minutes.
      Monroe tried to ignore it and wait him out, but the silence, after
      the badgering he'd endured from his previous interrrogators, was
      unnerving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally the man spoke. "You are James Monroe, is that
      correct?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Monroe answered. "Are you going to tell me why I'm
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I think you know why you're here," the blond man answered.
      "You were just conducting an interview with Harry
      Potter-Evans-Verres, were you not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was," Monroe agreed. Based on what the other two men had
      said, it seemed like they though he'd talked with Potter about
      something they weren't supposed to discuss. "We weren't supposed to
      discuss the Singularity?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man snorted derision. "We don't care about that, it's Mu —
      it's pseudoscientific claptrap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean 'Muggle' claptrap?" Monroe asked. "The other two guys
      used that word a lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond was silent for several moments. He appeared to be
      engaged in a silent debate with himself. "You don't need to worry
      about that," he said at last. "I just need to know what you and
      Potter talked about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Singularity, like I said." Monroe was beginning to feel
      irritated; these men, whoever they were (because it was now clear
      they <em class="calibre7">weren't</em> the regular police) were clearly dismissive
      of the idea of the Singularity. Which was not an entirely new idea
      to Monroe — people dismissed the idea all the time, though less
      lately than they had in past years. "You may not like the idea but
      it's a lot more mainstream now than it was even five years
      ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt that Potter is really interested in it these days," the
      blond man retorted. "He's got more pressing concerns. It doesn't
      matter anyway —" he waved a hand dismissively. "Perhaps we should
      discuss the phrase that got you into the interview in the first
      place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What phrase is that?" Monroe looked puzzled. "'Mr. Potter, may
      I please have an interview?'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." The blond looked annoyed. "Recognition code 927, I am a
      potato."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe gave him a blank stare. "I've never heard that phrase
      before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" The blond man wore a triumphant sneer. "How do you
      explain this, then?" He pointed to the mirror on the wall in front
      of them, and it shimmered, becoming a view screen. Onscreen was
      Monroe and the redhead he'd met outside Harry Potter's office, a
      Mrs. Thomas. As he watched, the woman was trying to steer him into
      leaving when he mentioned the line the blond man said he'd
      used.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well?" the blond man looked expectantly at him, when the image
      faded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That looked like me," Monroe admitted. "But I don't remember
      saying that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man was nodding slowly. "So…Obliviation, probably. Not that
      unexpected, really — he must have realized we were watching,
      dammit!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's 'Obliviation'?" Monroe asked, apprehensive that it would
      be just what the word sounded like.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh —" the blond man shrugged carelessly. "He made you forget
      some of your conversation with him. Perhaps most of it. I could
      test that, but it doesn't seem necessary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">How</em> would you test it?" Monroe asked. If Potter had
      made him forget things, he <em class="calibre7">really</em> wanted to find out what
      he'd forgotten, if possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond man gave him a calculating look. "I'd give you a few
      drops of Veritaserum," he said. "A few drops and you would
      truthfully tell everything you know about your conversation with
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've never heard of this 'Veritaserum,'" Monroe said, slowly.
      "Obviously it's some kind of truth drug, but why would the British
      police use that kind of stuff? It sounds more like something MI5
      would have. James Bond stuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Police?" The blond man was giving him that calculating look
      again. "Oh, no…we're not the <em class="calibre7">police</em>, Mr. Monroe. We're the
      <em class="calibre7">double secret police</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that same time a few miles away, Harry Potter-Evans-Verres
      was sitting in the living room of his private residence reading
      today's copy of the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>. Late afternoon was
      usually the first chance he got to read the wizarding newspaper,
      before Hermione got home and they either made dinner or went out to
      dine somewhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's living room was similar to the same room in his parent's
      house — it was lined with bookshelves, upon which were thousands of
      books. Unlike his parents, however, these bookshelves held many
      more books than any normal bookshelf could — the result of
      Extension and Retrieval Charms that would allow stacks of books
      behind the rows showing to come forward for perusal and
      selection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And those books, as numerous as they were (Harry would sometimes
      idly estimate to himself that his living room library contained
      almost 100,000 books, more than in the Hogwarts Library when he
      left the school) there were other libraries where he kept even more
      books, many of which would have most wizards gasping in surprise if
      they could read them. However, they were unreadable—a side-effect
      of a very old spell, the Interdict of Merlin, which made
      information about powerful spells written down by wizards
      unintelligible to anyone but the original author. Harry had been
      collecting books such as those from libraries and individual
      wizards across Britain for the past 20 years, beginning even before
      he left Hogwarts. One never knew when the Interdict might be lifted
      and those books could become readable by anyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For now, however, Harry had found an article about Hogwarts new
      Headmistress, Pomona Sprout, who was taking over for Minerva
      McGonagall, who had recently decided to retire after her 90th
      birthday. Headmistress Sprout had been approved by the governors of
      the school and today, August first, would be her official first day
      as Headmistress. She had announced at the ceremony that the
      position of Herbology Teacher had been accepted by Justin
      Finch-Fletchley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed softly to himself. It was a shame Neville wasn't
      around; he was a very good Herbology student — he would have made
      an excellent professor if he hadn't… well, there was no use
      dwelling on the past, Harry decided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry heard the front door to their residence open. The "front
      door" actually led to a small waiting area containing a few chairs
      and access to an elevator that ran exclusively between the waiting
      room and the ground floor of the building, accessible to someone
      who could Apparate or Portkey into the room. And only Hermione (and
      a few others) knew the special unlocking spell that would open the
      door leading into their residence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm home!" Harry heard her call out a few seconds later. She
      walked into the living room, smiling as she saw him, and Harry put
      down the paper to return her greeting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, love," he said. "Just now finishing work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," she nodded, sitting down in a nearby chair. "Very busy at
      work today," she sighed, sitting back wearily in the chair and
      closing her eyes. Once upon a time Hermione had rarely shown her
      tiredness to Harry; she tried to look tireless in front of him for
      much of the first year they knew one another, back at Hogwarts.
      Now, he hardly ever saw her when she <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> tired or busy
      with work. It was a pretty sure bet she wouldn't be interested in
      making dinner for them tonight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you fancy dinner at Mary's Place tonight?" Harry asked,
      naming one of the finest restaurants in Diagon Alley. Without
      opening her eyes, Hermione shrugged slightly. "My treat," Harry
      added, and Hermione smiled without opening her eyes. It was
      something of a joke between them that whenever Hermione wanted to
      go to Mary's Place, Harry would suggest the Ministry should pick up
      the tab since she usually did nothing but discuss Ministry business
      while they were there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps tonight would be different. Harry hoped so, because he
      didn't want to get into a discussion about what the "official
      Ministry position" on his interview with the Muggle journalist
      Monroe was. "Dean told me Ginny said she and her brother Ron saw
      you in Diagon Alley at lunch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione opened her eyes to look at him. "When did he tell you
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just before I left work earlier today. They were making plans
      to go to dinner and she mentioned it to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did your interview go?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well enough," he said, his expression not changing beyond a
      slight shrug of his shoulders. "I suppose it'll keep up the Muggle
      interest in the Singularity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you think of your interviewer?" Hermione asked,
      closing her eyes once again. "Was he glad to finally get to see
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I suppose," Harry replied. "Even though he burst into my
      office without knocking, trying to catch me off-guard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure I could blame him," Hermione commented. "You've
      been giving him and that magazine of his the runaround for months
      now. Why did you give him that interview, Harry?" She looked over
      at him, her expression curious. "You've been telling me amount of
      exposure they could give you wasn't worth your while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was silent a moment. "Just — something he said," he
      replied, finally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that?" Hermione pressed. She already knew, of course,
      but she wanted to give her husband the chance to tell her by his
      own choice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He knew…the recognition code phrase I used as a kid," Harry
      said at last.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Really</em>?" Hermione feigned surprise, feeling slightly
      guilty for doing so. It was hard keeping secrets from her husband,
      but even he couldn't be privy to all the secrets the Ministry kept
      — especially ones that involved <em class="calibre7">him</em>. "Did you find out how
      he knew it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't looking at her. "Yeah, eventually," he
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked at him a long moment. "Are we going to need to
      reserve the 'Room' at Mary's Place tonight, to talk about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you ask that?" Harry looked at her then, with the most
      innocent face. It was never a good sign, she knew, when he looked
      that innocent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it that's a yes," she shook her head wearily. "I'll make
      the reservation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mary's Place contained a special, separate dining area known as
      "Mary's Room." This room, as Harry had once been told, was used by
      two kinds of people: the first sort were engaged in illicit
      dalliances, and the second sort led interesting lives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He and Hermione were now seated in that room, perusing their
      menus as the waitress, a young woman neither of them recognized,
      waited for them to make up their minds. Harry, who had already
      eaten filet mignon earlier that day, decided on roasted Diracawl
      breast in Dirigible Plum sauce, with Sopophorus potatoes au gratin
      and carrots. Hermione, after intense internal debate, settled on a
      vegetable lasagna and a salad. The young woman bowed respectfully
      and silently left the room, closing the door behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took out her wand, pointing it to the bolt on the door,
      which slid into place with a metallic <em class="calibre7">clack</em>. She then
      spoke half a dozen wards, enough to sufficiently protect them from
      any scyring of the room by anyone capable of wizardry of lesser
      caliber than, say, Albus Dumbledore himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," she said, putting away her wand. "What went on between you
      and that journalist, James Monroe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mostly just that interview," Harry answered. "He didn't
      remember where he'd heard the recognition code."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you were satisfied with that?" Hermione asked, skeptically.
      She knew Harry better than that. "What would Dean say about it, if
      I asked him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dean doesn't know anything," Harry said, truthfully. "Ginny
      heard the guy say it, though, after she'd already Obliviated him
      when he broke into my office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Ginny</em> Obliviated someone?" Hermione looked
      shocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was within Ministry guidelines," Harry said, in a placating
      manner. "He might have noticed that my office is… a bit too big for
      where it is on that floor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never mind that, then," Hermione dismissed that issue. "Do you
      know that Monroe is still at the Ministry, even now, being
      questioned by Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "It sounds like Malfoy's just trying to twist my
      tail. Monroe doesn't know anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wouldn't be there now if you hadn't made it look so
      suspicious in the first place," Hermione pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a minute," Harry was annoyed at her implication. "You're
      saying it's <em class="calibre7">my</em> fault Malfoy's treating him like crap? I
      can't control what Draco does!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can control what <em class="calibre7">you</em> do, Harry!" Hermione argued.
      "Your interview should have taken an hour — Monroe was there for
      over three! Of <em class="calibre7">course</em> Draco's going to be suspicious!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had him stay for lunch!" Harry protested. "What's wrong with
      <em class="calibre7">lunch</em>? Malfoy's just being vindictive!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he's got reason to be, hasn't he?" Hermione said,
      wearily. "You and he haven't exactly been great friends since we
      all left Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He went one way, I went another," Harry reminded her. "You know
      I wasn't going to let Lucius Malfoy decide what I was going to do
      for the rest of my life. I already had <em class="calibre7">plans</em>,
      Hermione!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know that," she said, quietly. "They didn't seem to include
      me then, either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that's not fair," Harry warned her. "You — you had other
      priorities then, too. <em class="calibre7">You</em> were the one who said we were
      through."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I didn't really mean it." Hermione's voice was almost a
      whisper now. "I thought you'd get that. But I was wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mouth twisted with frustration. "You went to university,
      too," he said, his voice lowering in response to hers. "It
      impressed the hell out of Scrimgeour when you came back, didn't
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," she nodded. "I wondered if it would go against me,
      spending four years in a Muggle college, but Scrimgeour liked my
      ideas. Not everyone did, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was true. There were some at the Ministry who were not
      impressed with Muggle education, no matter how progressive its
      ideas, and Draco Malfoy, then an Auror, had said as much. It was
      debatable whether his remarks would have gotten him fired — being
      the son of Lord Malfoy, Draco getting sacked wasn't in the cards,
      even then. Lord Malfoy was still a force to be reckoned with, in
      the Wizengamot and in the Ministry itself. Ironically, however, it
      wasn't until Hermione herself became Minister that Draco was made
      Head Auror, under her administration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence for a time. Hermione fidgeted with a cloth
      napkin while Harry pretended to study the walls of Mary's Room in
      detail. At a sudden knock on the door Hermione jumped, then drew
      her wand and waved it at the door, opening the bolt and causing the
      door to swing open. The server, carrying their meals, appeared and
      quickly set them on the table, then bowed and departed. The bolt
      slammed shut again and wards were put up again, but neither of them
      spoke again for some time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally Hermione looked at Harry. "So, what are you going to do
      about Mr. Monroe?" she asked, taking a bit of her salad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took Harry a while to answer — two mouthfuls of her lasagna,
      in fact. "Nothing, I think. If I try to intercede on his behalf
      it's going to look to Malfoy like I'm trying to hide
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you <em class="calibre7">aren't</em>?" Hermione sounded extremely
      skeptical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I removed Monroe's memory about the recognition code," Harry
      admitted. "There's nothing else for him to talk about except the
      interview, and Draco thinks the Singularity is a Muggle pipe dream.
      He's probably scared Monroe learned something about the Wizarding
      world and is going to spill what he knows in that magazine he works
      for, or on the Web." Harry took a bite of his Diricawl breast.
      "This is very good, by the way. Do you want a bite?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe later." Hermione had a worried expression on her face.
      "Harry. You may think Draco is out to get you, but he's not Head
      Auror because he's a vindictive ba- because he's vindictive. He's
      Head Auror because he knows how to anticipate problems and deal
      proactively with them. One of those problems is threats to the
      Secrecy Statutes. You know that —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I do," Harry agreed, cutting her off. He put down his
      fork. "Okay, look—I'll level with you. I did find out how Monroe
      knew the recognition code."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione leaned forward, her vegetable lasagna forgotten.
      "How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave her a level look. "I used the Pensieve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's head dropped. "Oh, Harry…" she said, into her
      lasagna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had to <em class="calibre7">know</em>!" Harry exclaimed, almost pleadingly. "I
      haven't used that mnemonic since before I left Hogwarts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't answer right away. When she finally looked up,
      her expression was determined. "So," she said, with a brisk
      finality, "what are you going to do to help free Mr. Monroe, since
      you're the primary reason he's being held by the Aurors in the
      first place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you want me to do?" Harry asked plaintively. "If I
      intervene on his behalf it's going to make Draco suspicious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's <em class="calibre7">already</em> suspicious!" Hermione snapped. "But he
      may just think this is some way for you to take the — mickey — out
      of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a show of looking about the room for several moment.
      "You know, love, we <em class="calibre7">are</em> alone in here. You can say 'piss'
      if you want to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione ignored that comment. "Are you going to do something to
      help him, or am I going to have to do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not going to help at all," Harry pointed out. "Draco's
      going to think you're covering for me." Hermione made no response
      to this, either; she simply continued to stare sternly at him
      across the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fidgeted unconsciously; he know that stare—it meant he
      wasn't talking his way out of this no matter how hard he tried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right!" he said at last. "We'll stop by the Ministry on our
      way home; I'll convince Draco that Monroe really knows
      nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you <em class="calibre7">Obliviated</em> him," Hermione added,
      pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He already knows that!" Harry said, curtly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how do <em class="calibre7">you</em> know <em class="calibre7">that</em>?" Hermione
      challenged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cocked his head. "Because he has my office and waiting
      area under surveillance." <em class="calibre7">Not to mention my private dining
      room</em>, he didn't add aloud. It would be useful to keep that to
      himself, in case he wanted to pass some disinformation along to the
      Ministry snoops. Now, would his wife pretend she didn't know
      anything about the bugs he just mentioned?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at him for over a minute before she said. "How
      did you find that out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm CEO of a global corporation," Harry replied, standing up,
      his Diricawl breast only half-finished. "I expect the competition
      to try and find out what I'm doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't look happy, though she stood as well, watching
      as Harry dropped a handful of Galleons on the ticket the server had
      left with their food. "The Ministry isn't your competition, Harry,"
      she told him, a hint of sadness in her voice. "Don't make this
      about you and Draco and your — your pissing contest." She gave him
      a defiant look. "And don't make this about you and me — I'm not
      going to bail you out of this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't expect you to," Harry said, levelly. "Draco is not
      going to be a problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was slumped forward in his chair, held up only by
      whatever held his arms to the armrests. His captor had been
      questioning him, seemingly for hours, for no reason Monroe could
      discern and seemingly no end in sight. How could he convince the
      man that he knew <em class="calibre7">nothing</em> about what Potter was doing?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would be a lot simpler," the blond-haired man. Malfoy, was
      saying. "If you would just activate whatever's going to restore
      your memory when you leave here. We're going to find out anyway,
      eventually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still don't know what you're talking about," Monroe muttered
      wearily. "You're the one who's saying my memory was erased — I have
      to take your word for it! And I have to take your word that there's
      some way to get that memory back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter's tricky," Malfoy replied, ignoring Monroe's excuses.
      Potter would have given him false memories, memories layered in
      place of the ones he'd removed. "There are ways he could restore
      the memories he took from you without you ever knowing what you
      were carrying that would do that. We've examined everything you
      were carrying on you when you arrived; none of it is enchanted, or
      not so that we can detect, anyway. What were you going to do when
      you got home?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe blinked, trying to remember. "I was — going to check my
      Record-A-Pen for any saved audio."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This?" Malfoy asked, holding up the pen-like object. "How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um…twist the clip, it will reveal some buttons that can be used
      to download the contents to a MP3 player."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have one of these 'MP3 players'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In my…in my briefcase," Monroe said, trying to remember whether
      there really was one in there or not. He thought there was, but how
      could he know? What if Malfoy had already taken it? What if
      <em class="calibre7">Potter</em> had taken it? He had no idea who was trustworthy
      any more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond man reached into a small pouch on his belt and
      muttered something Monroe couldn't hear. A moment later he began
      withdrawing his hand, and Monroe gaped as the pouch's lip suddenly
      began <em class="calibre7">widening</em>… as he watched, disbelieving, his entire
      briefcase came out of the pouch with an audible <em class="calibre7">burp</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell?" Monroe gasped, though he felt too tired to
      shout as loudly as he wanted to. "How could —" He suddenly stopped
      as Malfoy drew a stick from another pocket with his free hand,
      waving it in front of himself. A small table appeared out of
      nowhere, and the man set Monroe's briefcase on top of it, then
      tapped it with his wand, causing the case to pop open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy looked over the contents of the briefcase carefully. He
      finally picked up a small device the size of a lighter. "Is this
      it?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded without saying anything. What <em class="calibre7">could</em> he
      say? Things had just leaped past strange into the surreal. The man
      held out the player toward him. "How does it work?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My arms…" Monroe began, but at that moment both of them
      suddenly came free. Monroe rubbed his forearms for a moment, then
      took the player from Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have it play whatever's on it," Malfoy ordered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's empty," Monroe said, glancing at the small display. "I
      haven't downloaded —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just activate it," the blond man ordered, in a preemptive tone.
      Monroe obediently pushed the play button. There was a quick double
      beep indicating nothing was on the device. Monroe looked at his
      captor, shrugging to indicate he didn't know what else to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Activate any hidden recordings on it," Malfoy told him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There <em class="calibre7">aren't</em> any," Monroe snapped, annoyed at the
      man's seeming paranoia. "It's just a plain old MP3 player, not some
      fancy James Bond device."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Malfoy started to speak again, but a tapping sound from behind
      the mirror diverted his attention. He looked back at the mirror,
      putting a hand to his ear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hell," he muttered softly, then looked back at Monroe. "It
      seems someone's here to argue for your release." He waved the stick
      he carried at Monroe, whose arms were suddenly pulled back against
      the chair's armrests. "Sit tight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like I have any choice," Monroe muttered, as the man left the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the hallway outside the interrogation room were Harry and
      Hermione, with Crabbe and Goyle standing behind them, trying (and
      failing) to appear inconspicuous. Malfoy gave Potter and the
      Minister an expressionless look before asking of Potter, "Are you
      here to rescue your pet Muggle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's not my pet Muggle," Harry replied, his look equally
      expressionless. "But you're not going to get anything out of
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Malfoy allowed himself a knowing sneer. "How do you know
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because there's nothing for him to tell you," Harry replied at
      once. "Remember, I spent over three hours with him earlier
      today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm quite aware of that," Malfoy retorted, with a short glance
      at Hermione, whose expression remained calm and aloof. "That's part
      of my problem, as you should well know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I know," Harry grinned. "You probably think I planted
      some kind of knowledge time-bomb in his head," he pointed to his
      own temple for emphasis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or something even more devious," Malfoy agreed, humorlessly.
      "There's very little I put past you these days, Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you two please stop this…pissing contest," Hermione
      finally spoke up. Both men looked at her. Behind her and Harry,
      Crabbe and Goyle gave each other small, knowing smiles. For a
      mudblood, this Minister could mix it up with Mr. Malfoy pretty
      good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither of you trust one another," Hermione went on. "We all
      know that. And neither of you are going admit you've gone too far
      in this — this fiasco of an interrogation. But both of you have;
      Draco, because there's no good reason to suspect this Monroe of
      knowing anything he shouldn't, and Harry, because he should never
      have let the man come under Ministry scrutiny in the first
      place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I want you the two of you to get past this petty bickering
      amongst yourselves and <em class="calibre7">solve the problem</em>," Hermione
      declared, with finality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was giving her a look of mild amusement. "I thought you
      weren't going to intervene in my behalf," he commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't," Hermione retorted. "I'm intervening in Mr. Monroe's
      behalf. <em class="calibre7">He's</em> the one whose time you're wasting right
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As well as mine," Draco added, giving Harry a hard stare.
      "<em class="calibre7">If</em> all this is unnecessary and the Muggle really knows
      nothing. Which I doubt," he finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry folded his arms across his chest, saying nothing. It was
      hard to tell whether he was simply being stubborn or whether some
      deeper, more devious plot was being hatched within his brain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," he said at last. "I'll tell you what I know. I found
      out where Monroe heard the recognition code phrase."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finally." Malfoy waited expectantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He saw it written on a scrap of paper I left on the Ravenclaw
      table next to him at breakfast, my first day at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione and Draco both exclaimed at the same time.
      Behind them, even Crabbe and Goyle were jolted by this news. The
      Minister and the Head Auror glanced at one another, then Draco
      spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a <em class="calibre7">Muggle</em>, Harry! How could he <em class="calibre7">possibly</em>
      have been at Hogwarts? Did you know about this, Minister?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head. "He told me he found out, but not the
      details, until just now. Harry, what you're saying is
      impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know that," Harry agreed, evenly. "But that's what I saw in
      the Pensieve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You used the Pensieve on him</em>?" Draco practically
      shouted. "No wonder you Obliviated him!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I slipped a Hypnotic Potion into his food before I showed him
      anything magical," Harry replied. He had indeed done that, but the
      dosage was so small that the effects would have lasted only a
      minute or so — Harry had only wanted enough in the Muggle's system
      that it would register if checked for, giving him a valid reason
      for revealing magic to a Muggle. "It was supposed to last longer,
      but I must've miscalculated how much of it he ate. He woke up while
      we were still in the Pensieve, and I had to Obliviate him.
      Otherwise I would have just given him a post-hypnotic suggestion
      not to remember what he'd seen, and you'd have picked that up
      during your questioning." The handy thing about being a perfect
      Occlumens, Harry knew, was that even staring directly into Malfoy's
      eyes, he knew there was no way the Head Auror could tell he was
      lying. It was legal to reveal the existence of magic to a Muggle if
      he or she were already under the influence of a mind-altering
      potion or spell (or if they were a blood relative, in the case of
      Muggle-borns).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't detect that," Malfoy replied, not surprisingly, and
      Harry reflected that there was no way for him to be sure that Draco
      wasn't a perfect Occlumens as well — it was certainly something
      Lord Malfoy would have ordered his son to train for. On the other
      hand, Draco <em class="calibre7">might</em> have tested for it and gotten a false
      negative result. "I've been waiting for you to admit your reason
      for Obliviating him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was probably lying about that, Harry concluded. So — Draco
      was a perfect Occlumens as well. Another tidbit of information for
      him to file away about the Head Auror. Aloud, however, he said
      only, "What do you make of his memory of being at Hogwarts,
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was silent for several seconds, contemplating. "It sounds
      like a false memory," he said at last. "I don't remember anyone
      there named James Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither do I," Hermione chimed in. "But why would anyone put a
      false memory like that into a Muggle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To send Harry a message," Draco suggested. That seemed pretty
      obvious. It was the kind of setup Draco himself would have
      concocted, if he were serious about getting Harry Potter into
      trouble — try to trip him up, get him to do something illegal so he
      could nail him. As it was, Harry was skirting the edges of legality
      with the Hypnotic Potion (if he'd actually used, it; Draco had lied
      about detecting it and Harry might have fallen for that, but it was
      unlikely). He didn't have enough to bring Harry before the
      Wizengamot for violating the Secrecy restrictions; you had to
      <em class="calibre7">knowingly</em> violate them, which Harry hadn't (if his story
      was true, and Draco couldn't disprove it at the moment, not without
      corroborating evidence from Monroe).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What kind of message would <em class="calibre7">that</em> be?" Hermione wanted
      to know. She couldn't quite see into the more subtle moves some
      Dark wizards might try, things Harry and Draco were both well
      accustomed to, but it was obvious that anyone using a Muggle this
      way was up to no good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That things aren't as they appear," Harry said. "Monroe
      couldn't have been at Hogwarts, but his memories indicate he was,
      so someone is manipulating all of this." He did not look happy.
      Usually it was <em class="calibre7">him</em> manipulating things — he did not care
      to have someone trying to pull his strings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you want to do, then?" Draco asked, though he wasn't
      sure he was going to agree with Harry's answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let him go," Harry said. "Obliviate any memories he has of this
      place, place him in his home, asleep, and let him wake up normally
      tomorrow. Let him think he went to bed too tired to write anything
      yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how does <em class="calibre7">that</em> position us to find out what's
      really going on?" Draco asked, skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If someone's pulling Monroe's strings, he'll show up again,"
      Harry hypothesized. "And it's almost certain someone's manipulating
      him." <em class="calibre7">And he was going to find out who that was</em>, Harry
      promised himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco frowned. If Harry was right about this, it was a good way
      to shunt him and the Ministry out of the way while he interrogated
      Monroe about it at his leisure. On the other hand, the questioning
      of Monroe was going nowhere at the moment — if there was something
      he was hiding, it was hidden from <em class="calibre7">Monroe</em> as well, probably
      by whoever was manipulating him. He would have to be extra-vigilant
      about monitoring Potter's movements and contacts for the next few
      weeks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," he said at last. He looked past Harry and Hermione
      to his two subordinates. "You two, get Monroe back to his apartment
      and remove his memories of being here in the Ministry or of anyone
      to do with it, including yourselves. Put him to sleep and leave no
      trace of yourselves in his apartment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Mr. Malfoy," Crabbe nodded, and they went into the room
      where Monroe was sitting, still fixed to his chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they left, Harry muttered, "<em class="calibre7">Good</em> minions," under his
      breath, but still audible enough to be heard. Crabbe shot him a
      look, but Malfoy shook his head fractionally and the big man turned
      away with a grunt, saying nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Draco said, almost conversationally, after they were
      gone. "Both Vincent and Gregory are fully qualified in their
      professions at the Ministry — you don't have to keep rubbing that
      in." Harry made no comment, simply holding up his hands in a
      gesture of no contest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm going home," Draco added, when it was clear Hermione
      had nothing further to say. "Both of you have a good evening." He
      walked away from them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few moments later both Harry and Hermione turned and began
      walking toward the elevators that would take them to the Atrium and
      from there, a Floo trip back to their building. "Do you really
      think someone else is involved?" Hermione asked as they entered the
      elevator.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Harry answered honestly. "But I don't know
      anyone beside Draco who might have pulled this off, and I don't
      think he's the one this time." He paused for a moment, considering.
      "Maybe I should have a chat with my experts on impossible
      situations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Monroe awoke early the next morning, his thoughts fuzzy
      and confused. He was in his own bedroom, he could tell, but how he
      got home or what he did before going to sleep he had no idea. In
      fact, he could remember nothing that had happened after he walked
      out of the TBC building the day before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe sat up, rubbing sleep from his eyes. What <em class="calibre7">did</em> he
      remember from yesterday? It all seemed a jumble of disassociated
      memories; the only thing he could recall clearly was his interview
      with Harry Potter —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A clear thought suddenly burned in his brain, something he'd
      known before, but had somehow forgotten: <em class="calibre7">Recognition code 927,
      I am a potato</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, all of yesterday suddenly returned, unbidden,
      into his mind. Monroe stared upward, astonished, at the memories
      that suddenly filled his head. If only <em class="calibre7">half</em> of this wasn't
      just some dream or hallucination, then he was sitting on the
      biggest story of the century, or the millennium. Monroe grabbed a
      notepad and pencil off his nightstand and began furiously writing
      down what he recalled.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
