<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 6: The Cat Came Back, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: The Cat Came Back</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">


      <p class="calibre6">Updated 1/14/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">And who do you think I am, Potter?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James Monroe?" Verity had finished with her customer and walked
      over to where Angelina and Monroe were talking. "Aren't you that
      Mu—" she caught herself "—er, that man that visited Harry's
      business the other day, the journalist?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Monroe nodded. "But I've discovered a few things about
      myself since then, and I wanted to talk to him about them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What things?" Verity asked, looking suspicious and concerned.
      This man, according to Fred, had been pestering Harry Potter for
      months for an interview for a Muggle magazine, about some crazy
      Muggle idea called the Singulary, or something like that. How could
      he have even made it into Diagon Alley in the first place, if he
      was a Muggle? Had some wizard let him in? Who would allow a Muggle
      to walk around in Diagon Alley unattended?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As if reading her thoughts, Monroe reached into his jacket and
      withdrew a slender piece of wood. "I picked this up at Ollivanders
      before I came here. Mahogany, twelve inches, with a dragon
      heartstring core." He put the wand away. "Bill remembered my name
      as well — apparently Harry Potter has talked a lot about me to all
      of you in the past few days. He was surprised to see me in Diagon
      Alley. He told me Harry and his brothers were having a meeting,
      purpose unknown, but I suspect it was to discuss me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Verity and Angelina looked at one another, concern on both of
      their faces. How could Monroe guess all this? Verity tried again,
      "How could you —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could I have gotten into Diagon Alley without a wand?"
      Monroe guessed her question. "Well, one of the customers in the
      Leaky Cauldron let me in, after I'd explained to the proprietress
      that I'd lost my first wand —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you know where the Leaky Cauldron was?" Angelina
      interrupted. "Did Harry tell you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it was just something that popped into my head when I woke
      up after the Aurors Obliviated me and put me back in my
      apartment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Aurors</em>?" Verity was surprised. "What do you know about
      Aurors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps I should speak with Harry about this," Monroe
      suggested. "It's kind of complicated. Until this morning, I had no
      idea I was a wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Verity and Angelina both looked surprised, but Luna, who had
      come up and was listening as well, nodded knowingly. "He was
      probably one of the wizards who disappeared during the height of
      the Rotfang Conspiracy, back in the '90's."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna!" Verity frowned disapprovingly. "I thought we decided
      that —" she <em class="calibre7">was</em> going to say that the Rotfang Conspiracy
      was some wild idea that her father Xenophilius had come up with,
      but changed mid-sentence to "— decided that the Rotfang Conspiracy
      was disbanded when Hermione Granger became Minister of Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," Luna agreed, complacently. "But this man could have
      been abducted by the Conspiracy before then." She looked at Monroe.
      "What do you know about gum disease?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What</em>?" Monroe looked at her uncomprehendingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never mind, it's not important," Angelina butted in. She turned
      to Luna, who was giving her a hurt look. "I mean, what we need to
      understand is what led Mr. Monroe here, not where he's been for the
      past two decades, or however long he's been living as a
      Muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned back to Monroe. "Can you tell us what happened when
      you met with Harry Potter on Monday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Ron, interestingly enough, who asked the question first.
      "So…d'you think that it's possible that <em class="calibre7">he's</em> come back
      again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George raised their eyebrows, looking at Harry, but he
      could tell they weren't surprised, but rather interested in what
      Harry would say. It was also obvious from the emphasis Ron had put
      in the sentence who 'he' was. He was referring to Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know how that could be," Harry replied. He had to
      measure his words carefully here, because none of the Weasleys knew
      the secret of Voldemort's seeming immortality. Only a very few
      people ever had: Albus Dumbledore, Severus Snape, and Minerva
      McGonagall were the ones Harry was sure had known about Horcruxes
      before Harry learned about them, and he suspected that an ex-Auror
      at the time, Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, had known as well. Almost
      everyone on that short list was dead now, and the only other person
      Harry had told about them was Hermione, and she only after the
      fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Horcruxes weren't something you wanted the general Wizarding
      population knowing about — not now, not when Harry was so close to
      his breakthrough…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His and my wands were twins," Harry went on. "Mr. Ollivander
      told me when I bought my wand that its brother had given me my
      scar, that both wands contained a feather from the same phoenix;
      phoenix feathers are a relatively rare magical core. We could
      injure each other with our wands, but could not fatally injure one
      another with them." At least, that was the explanation that had
      been given out after Voldemort's demise, to conceal the fact that
      Harry and Dumbledore had sought out and destroyed the Dark Lord's
      Horcruxes before confronting him directly. Voldemort, thinking
      himself invulnerable to death, had faced Harry after Dumbledore's
      death, with Harry using Dumbledore's wand. Riddle couldn't have
      known that, before Dumbledore died, he and Harry had dueled and
      Harry had disarmed the elderly wizard, taking the Elder Wand from
      him. It was with that wand, the so-called "unbeatable" wand, that
      Harry had faced Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you used Dumbledore's wand to kill him," Fred said, and both
      George and Ron nodded. The story was well-known; to the entire
      Wizarding World, the story of Harry's defeat of the last great Dark
      Wizard of the 20th century was the beginning of a Magical Golden
      Age. The Death Eaters that were still extant upon Voldemort's
      demise were killed or captured; many of them went to prison, with
      the exception of a few — Lord Malfoy being one of those, due to his
      influence in the Wizengamot, was able to plead that he'd been
      Imperiused and therefore not responsible for his actions on
      Voldemort's behalf. That was a common enough excuse among Death
      Eaters, but only Malfoy had the influence (that is, the Galleons)
      to carry it off successfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever happened to that wand?" Ron suddenly asked. "I mean,
      you still use your old wand, right? What did you do with
      Dumbledore's wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you remember?" Fred butted in, before Harry could answer.
      "At the memorial for Dumbledore? Harry put the wand in the tomb
      with the Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah…" Ron looked down. "I guess I was payin' more attention
      to — other stuff," he mumbled. Harry knew what he meant, even if he
      didn't say it. Ron had sat next to Hermione at Dumbledore's
      memorial service — it was during the short time they had dated, the
      time when she and Harry weren't seeing one another, because he was
      helping Dumbledore to kill Horcruxes and no one else could know
      about that, not even her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, then," George said, crisply, trying to get their
      discussion back on track. "If this Monroe fellow isn't —
      <em class="calibre7">him</em> — then who is he? How did he learn about Harry's
      recognition code phrase, if he couldn't have been at Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously someone planted it in him," Fred said flatly.
      "Someone on a par with whoever pulled off the Prank, assuming it
      wasn't me and George and we Obliviated ourselves afterward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled. "Still can't give up on wanting to own that, can
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Fred said airily, "even if we can't remember, it does
      have all the earmarks of being a Weasley prank." Both George and
      Ron nodded at that as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chose not to debate that point. He was pretty sure
      Quirrell had had something to do with it, but exactly what was
      unclear. And, since the Defense professor was no longer around to
      ask, the question would likely remain forever unanswered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about the Muggle journalist, then?" Ron kept going back to
      that question; he seemed to be more fixated on it than Fred and
      George were, Harry observed. It made him wonder, once again, how
      he'd managed to underestimate the youngest Weasley son for so long.
      If things had turned out even a little differently, Ron might have
      ended up married to Hermione Granger rather than his current wife,
      Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's his move next," Harry answered, after a moment of
      reflection. "He was Obliviated <em class="calibre7">three times</em> yesterday — I
      can't see how he could remember a thing about the Wizarding world
      by now. If someone else is manipulating him, we may see him again.
      But I'm not going to hold my breath."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at his watch. "We've been up here for over two
      hours, now. Your wives are probably wondering what happened to
      us!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred laughed. "They know fish and chips and Harry Potter make
      for a <em class="calibre7">long</em> lunch. We'll have to do this again —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— in another five years," George finished, grinning. "Or maybe
      sooner, if we can help it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The four of them stood and left the room, tramping down the
      stairs leading back to WWW and their wives, preparing to explain
      (hopefully with as few lies as possible) what they'd been doing all
      this time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's not much to tell," Monroe said, carefully. He wasn't
      sure how much to divulge to these women — he had no idea where
      their real loyalties might lie, especially when it came to someone
      like Harry Potter-Evans-Verres. They were all married to Weasleys,
      and he didn't know the dynamics of that family. "I met with Harry
      yesterday for an interview about the Singularity —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is what, exactly?" Verity interrupted. This was supposed
      to be a Muggle idea — why would Harry be interested in it, unless
      he had some stake in it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a point in future history when AI's will attain, then
      exceed human intelligence, resulting in runaway progress," Monroe
      replied. "I don't expect you to understand it —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do <em class="calibre7">you</em> understand it?" Angelina asked. "Wizards have
      had artificial intelligence for centuries."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think it's the same thing," Monroe disagreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't? Based on what — your deep understanding of magic?"
      Angelina scoffed. "By your own admission you've known you're a
      wizard less than a day. How do you presume to know about such
      things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know more than you might think," Monroe argued. "When my
      memory came back, a lot of things I'd forgotten were suddenly back
      in my head once again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like what?" Verity challenged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like my time at Hogwarts," Monroe retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence for several seconds. "But, nobody remembers
      you from back then," Angelina said at last. "None of our husbands
      do — they've been trying to remember who you were since Harry first
      told them about your memory from the Pensieve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know the reason for that," Monroe told her. "But I'm not
      discussing it with anyone except Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's <em class="calibre7">loads</em> we're going to discuss," Harry's voice
      suddenly said, sounding hard, and everyone in the shop turned to
      see him and the three Weasley brothers standing at the bottom of
      the stairs. All four of them were pointing their wands toward
      Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you get here?" Harry demanded. "You're not supposed to
      remember anything about this place, unless someone screwed up — or
      put memories back in your head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was eyeing the four wands pointing at him, but he didn't
      appear apprehensive or confused this time. "I don't know either
      way," he answered. "All I do know is, I woke up this morning and
      thoughts about the Wizarding world suddenly began flooding into my
      head. I started writing them down, but it became apparent after a
      few seconds that what I was remembering wasn't just a few isolated
      memories. I was remembering my entire life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He has a wand, too," Luna mentioned. "He showed it to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gestured with his wand. "Take it out," he said. "Do it
      slowly — any sudden moves and we'll all Stun you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe gave Harry a level look. "You're treating me like some
      kind of Dark wizard," he said, not making any move at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose we shouldn't rule that out," Harry agreed. "But for
      now, you're just an unknown — none of us have ever heard of you or
      remember you as a wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">was</em> at Hogwarts," Monroe said. "You saw that
      yourself, in the Pensieve. And I can explain why none of you
      remember me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then explain," Harry's wand hadn't wavered in pointing at
      Monroe's heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Fidelius Charm," Monroe answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh-uh," Harry shook his head. "The Fidelius doesn't work that
      way. If you're suggesting that you or someone else cast a Fidelius
      to hide your identity, it would only keep anyone who knew you from
      telling anyone else your name or who you were. If you spent seven
      years at Hogwarts, that would mean upwards of a thousand people,
      including the teachers there during those years, would know who you
      were, even if they couldn't tell anyone about it. That would
      include us. The memory we saw was during my first year at Hogwarts,
      but I don't remember you being there <em class="calibre7">at all</em>. Try
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's something you don't know about the Fidelius," Monroe
      insisted. "You can incorporate a Memory Charm into the spell; it
      invokes the first time you meet someone, erasing any memories they
      might have of you. If you add that component to the spell, you have
      to be the Secret-Keeper; otherwise, you could never introduce
      yourself to anyone, Muggle or wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced towards the Weasley brothers. Fred and George were
      looking very thoughtful, as if trying to determine whether Monroe's
      claim made any sense. "Well?" he said, as the silence grew
      protracted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose it's possible," Fred said, looking rather bemused.
      "The Fidelius is complicated enough on its own, though, without
      trying to incorporate contingency spells in it, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How plausible is it?" Harry demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George and Fred both shook their heads. "Don't know," George
      answered this time. "We've never even heard of the idea until
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a minute," Ron objected. "Aren't we getting ahead of
      ourselves here?" The others looked at him. Ron pointed toward
      Monroe. "How does he even <em class="calibre7">know</em> about all this — the
      Fidelius, Diagon Alley, everything! I thought he was supposed to be
      a Muggle!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Up until this morning," Monroe spoke up. "I thought I
      <em class="calibre7">was</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so did Malfoy," Harry said, thoughtfully. "But there are
      ways to tell if a wizard is trying to impersonate a Muggle. You
      can't change your magical core even if you Polyjuice yourself into
      a Muggle identity — your core will be diminished, but it'll still
      be there, and detectable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked shrewdly at Monroe. "If Malfoy didn't detect that you
      were really a wizard pretending to be a Muggle, then it stands to
      reason that you're just a Muggle pretending to be a wizard! Maybe
      we ought to test that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's wand was suddenly pointing at Monroe again. "Do you have
      any objections, Mr. Monroe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can think of one straightaway," Monroe answered. "How could I
      have bought a wand if I wasn't a wizard? When I waved it, the wand
      I bought shot sparks into the air. Bill Weasley at Ollivanders can
      verify that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone looked around at one another. That was a pretty good
      indication of being a wizard, everyone had to agree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the wand in Harry's hand hadn't wavered. "Good evidence," he
      agreed. "But only if you aren't being helped by someone behind the
      scenes, someone that could cause a wand to shoot sparks in the hand
      of a Muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell!" Monroe said loudly. "What's it going to take to
      convince you, then?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lowered his wand slowly to his side. "A duel, I think," he
      answered quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not serious!" Monroe said automatically, then took
      another look at Harry. "You <em class="calibre7">are</em> serious!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you attended Hogwarts around the same time we did," Harry
      pointed out, "you might have participated in the Defense class
      armies that Professor Quirrell started during my first year at
      Hogwarts." Harry looked expectantly at Monroe. "Well?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment, Monroe nodded. "I remember them," he said. "I
      was in your Chaos Legion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. "It's not as if I remember, obviously," he said,
      with a sardonic grin. "But according to you I shouldn't,
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a minute." Verity stepped forward, between the two men,
      her hands outstretched. "You two are <em class="calibre7">not</em> having a duel in
      the middle of our shop!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Harry smiled, hefting his wand. "We'll do it in
      the test range."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry gestured for Monroe to follow him, however, Angelina
      interrupted them again. "I think I want to see this duel for
      myself, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll let you know how it turns out," Fred answered. "Someone
      has to watch the store, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who says <em class="calibre7">you</em> can't do it?" Angelina folded her arms
      across her chest. "You've been off having lunch for the past two
      hours!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think that's relevant," Fred said, blandly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course <em class="calibre7">you</em> wouldn't," Angelina sniffed. "But some
      of us haven't had lunch yet!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't want us to go without lunch," Verity advised her
      husband. "We tend to get cranky otherwise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, is <em class="calibre7">that</em> what causes that?" George grinned. "I
      thought perhaps it was…" he decided not to complete his thought as
      he caught sight of his and Fred's wife both glaring at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care who watches," Harry added. "But you better make up
      your minds straightaway — I'm not waiting around for you lot to
      figure it out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron and Luna will stay," Fred said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a minute —!" Ron looked outraged, but Fred's tone had been
      final.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll be fun, Ronald," Luna said happily. "We don't work
      together that much anymore — you're always off inventing things
      these days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron looked disgruntled, but his wife's beaming expression
      quickly made him smile weakly. "Sure, it'll be fun," he agreed with
      her. But as Fred and George moved to follow Harry and Monroe to the
      stairs, he put a hand on George's arm. "I want details!" he said,
      <em class="calibre7">sotto voce</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley product testing range had originally been on the
      first floor of the shop, along with Fred and George's bedroom
      (which at the time had amounted to a couple of sleeping bags thrown
      on the floor). Since that time, a steady influx of Galleons,
      marriage and a desire for comfort had overridden their eagerness to
      "rough it" — the first floor of the shop had become three bedrooms
      and their "conference area," the specially-shielded room where
      Harry and the three youngest Weasley brothers had just had
      lunch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The test range was now located under the shop, in a sixty by
      thirty-foot space that had been magically dug out and shaped. It
      was actual size so the brothers could accurately assess the effects
      of whatever item they were working on (using Extension Charms
      sometimes produced unexpected results).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The entrance was near the middle of the room, lengthwise. Harry
      led the way in, with Monroe looking around warily as he stepped in
      behind him, and Fred, George and their wives bringing up the
      rear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty nice, isn't it?" Harry spread his arms, giving Monroe a
      calculating look. "It's certainly bigger than some of the
      classrooms the Chaos Legion had to practice in, that first year of
      our armies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pointed to one side of the room. "Stand over there," he said,
      then took up a position about thirty feet from Monroe. The four
      Weasleys arrayed themselves on either side of the entrance. When
      Harry and Monroe were both facing each other, Harry asked, "I
      suppose you remember how 'friendly' duels work, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded. "No fatal or irreversible spells. No Dark curses.
      Either duelist can concede at any time." The Weasleys were
      murmuring among themselves — the rules Monroe had quoted were just
      what they'd been taught about formal duels.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry said. "I suppose you remember how to cast a
      Simple Shield Charm, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Monroe replied, then said "Ouch!" as Harry's wand
      flicked and a spell shot out, hitting him in the chest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe not," Harry smirked, as Monroe rubbed his chest. "Not if
      you can't even defend against a Simple Strike Hex."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We haven't even started the duel yet!" Monroe snapped, angrily.
      "Poor form, Potter!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're not in Neverland, Mr. Monroe," Harry answered, grinning.
      "But I won't argue with you. Are you ready to begin? I'll even let
      you know, I'll use <em class="calibre7">Ma-ha-su</em> until you're ready for
      something a little stronger. And we can keep the duel verbal until
      you're ready to go to the next level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Monroe growled. "Let's begin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two men squared off, both holding their wands before them in
      the stance called for by the rules of formal dueling. Fred stepped
      forward, his wand held high, then swept it downward, signaling the
      start of the duel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's wand snapped forward. "<em class="calibre7">Ma-ha-su</em>!" he said,
      loudly, even as Monroe's wand began the motions for a Simple
      Shield; he shouted "<em class="calibre7">Contego</em>!" and the shield flickered
      into existence in front of his head and chest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's Simple Strike, however, had been aimed at Monroe's left
      leg, and he staggered as the bolt struck him. "Son of a bitch," he
      muttered, followed by "<em class="calibre7">Ma-ha-su</em>!" which Harry easily
      deflected with a muttered Simple Shield of his own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were in my army?" Harry wondered, mockingly. "Your heart
      must not have been in it, Monroe, judging by your performance here
      so far."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's still coming back to me," Monroe said, through gritted
      teeth. "I've been living as a Muggle for a long time now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you say," Harry replied, then snapped "<em class="calibre7">Somnium</em>!"
      before Monroe could retort. This was already getting boring, even
      if Monroe was a wizard who'd been trapped as a Muggle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this time Monroe dodged to one side, letting the spell fly
      past him without casting a spell. At the same moment he responded
      with "<em class="calibre7">Luminos</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blocked the spell without difficulty. "Strictly speaking,"
      he noted. "That spell wouldn't do anything to me except make me
      glow. In a real duel it would be worthless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Monroe said, then shouted, "<em class="calibre7">Impedimenta</em>!" even
      as Harry finished speaking. Harry said "<em class="calibre7">Protego</em>!" just in
      time for the spell to bounce off it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still not impressed," Harry said, though in truth, the
      Impediment Jinx would have blasted right through a Simple Shield —
      if he'd hadn't reacted instinctively he might have been pushed
      back, off-balance, and there was no telling what Monroe might have
      done with that slight advantage. "<em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>!" he said. Let's
      see if Monroe could take as good as he gave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Protego</em>!" Monroe said, forming his own shield just in
      time to catch Harry's Stunner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swept his wand to once side, repeating the spell, and the
      red bolt shot out toward the wall, seemingly wasted. But the
      Stunner ricocheted, heading toward Monroe. It was only due to dumb
      luck and slight imprecision in Harry's aim that the bolt glanced
      off the edge of Monroe's shield, missing him by inches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's wand was sweeping back toward Monroe when the
      ex-Muggle's shield vanished and he muttered a spell so softly Harry
      couldn't hear. He dodged it, letting it speed past him, only to
      suddenly feel disoriented and confused. What had Monroe just
      done?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He realized a moment later what had happened. Monroe had sent a
      second spell just after the first one, aimed for where Harry had
      stepped when he dodged the first one. Monroe had managed to Confund
      him! Stupid, stupid!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoa," Fred muttered, seeing Harry staggering and shaking his
      head. "I didn't think I'd ever see Harry faked out that
      easily."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly raised a shield, protecting himself in case Monroe
      followed up with something like a Stunner. But the shield was
      angled slightly to one side, leaving his flank unprotected, and
      Monroe sent a Stunner toward a wall, letting it ricochet as Harry
      had done earlier. The Stunner clipped Harry, knocking him to the
      floor, and his shield evaporated. A moment later a
      "<em class="calibre7">Somnium</em>" uttered by Monroe left Harry asleep on the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody hell!" George said, looking at his twin. "Harry just got
      beat in a duel!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked at Harry on the floor, then at his wand, his
      expression one of disbelief as well. "Huh," he said. "Didn't think
      that would really work." Angelina and Verity were both staring at
      him in shock. How had a man they'd all taken for a Muggle only
      hours earlier managed to beat one of the best duelists in the
      Wizarding world so handily?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Innervate</em>!" Fred said. After a moment Harry opened his
      eyes, staring up at everyone gathered around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A lucky shot," he said, his voice still slightly slurred from
      the effects of the Confundus Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you wouldn't have said that if your Stunner ricochet
      had got me," Monroe sneered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat up slowly. "Maybe not," he admitted, as Fred followed
      up with <em class="calibre7">Finite</em>, to cancel the Confundus. "Ah, better," he
      said, shaking his head to clear it. He looked up at Monroe. "I
      suppose the only question left is, why all your memories about
      being a wizard suddenly came back now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have any idea," Monroe answered, as George helped Harry
      to his feet. "Could all those Memory Charms you and the Ministry
      laid on me have done something to trigger them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possible," Harry shrugged. "But it seems like a rather
      elaborate scenario for anyone to set up, concealing your memories
      of being a wizard only to have something like one to several
      Obliviations cause them to return."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Fidelius might have been used," George theorized, "Maybe the
      Secret-Keeper died, or did something to end the spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if he died, it wouldn't bring back the subject's memories,"
      Fred objected. "Ending the spell would be the only thing that would
      have let the memories be recalled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that's the case, we have to figure out who did this," Harry
      said. "Either way, there's some very complex spellwork involved in
      this, magic that would have been too difficult for any but a very
      few wizards to perform."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who are you thinking of?" Verity asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore, for one," Harry answered. "Though I can't see why
      this would have mattered to him." He turned back to Monroe. "Did
      you ever talk to Dumbledore during your time at Hogwarts? Even
      once?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't remember," Monroe replied. "If I did, it was so
      insignificant that it probably wasn't worth remembering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about Professor Quirrell?" Harry asked. The room went
      silent as everyone there stopped talking amongst themselves to hear
      the answer, especially Fred and George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was in your army, Harry," Monroe answered. "You were the
      general — <em class="calibre7">you</em> talked to him, not me. I didn't have any
      reason to talk to Quirrell beyond answering questions in
      class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mmm," Harry was nodding, his expression bemused but very
      guarded. "Okay. Maybe we should continue this at my offices. In
      private."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Fred and George both said, sounding outraged. "Do you
      think that's a good idea?" Fred went on. "What if there's some kind
      of trap —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think Monroe is setting a trap for me," Harry said,
      cutting him off. "He was alone with me the other day for several
      hours — if he'd wanted to do something then, he could have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it might have something to do with his memory returning,"
      George pointed out, and both Verity and Angelina nodded
      agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Better safe than sorry," Angelina pointed out, backing up her
      husband.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agreed," Harry smiled. "So I'll be safe, with the appropriate
      wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not what I meant!" Angelina insisted, but Harry had
      already taken Monroe by the arm and was leading back up the stairs
      toward the shop's ground floor. She glared at Fred and George, who
      both grinned and shrugged sheepishly. When Harry Potter made up his
      mind about something, it was usually best to let him do what he
      wanted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron was waiting at the top of the stairs — evidently he'd been
      trying to listen to whatever had gone on in the test range; Harry
      walked past him without comment, heading for the ground floor
      office. Ron looked inquiring at Fred and George as they came up the
      stairs. "What happened? I couldn't hear anything, you know — those
      damned sound-deadening spells!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry lost the duel," George said, in a low voice. At Ron's
      look of utter surprise he added, "But he doesn't seem that fussed
      about it. Dunno why that is — he always <em class="calibre7">hated</em> losing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't I know it?" Ron muttered, almost to himself. He turned to
      look at Harry, but he and Monroe had already gone into the shop's
      office. The three Weasley brothers hurried to follow them inside,
      to see what Harry would do next. Verity, Angelina and Luna followed
      them inside, making the smallish room seem quite crowded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was taking a pinch of Floo powder from the bowl on the
      fireplace mantle. "We're going home," he said matter-of-factly,
      seeing that everyone seemed quite interested in what he was up to.
      "I have a few things to discuss with Mr. Monroe about his recent
      memory recovery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe someone should go with you," Angelina suggested, then
      thrust her chin out defiantly as Harry raised an eyebrow at her.
      "Well, someone needs to make sure nothing happens to Mr.
      Monroe!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry wouldn't do anything to Mr. Monroe," Luna said,
      pleasantly. "He never did anything to Father in spite of all the
      headlines the <em class="calibre7">Quibbler</em> printed about him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It might never have occurred to Luna, Angelina thought, that no
      one had ever attacked her father because everyone considered the
      man a harmless crackpot, but she knew saying so would just piss off
      Fred and annoy George and Verity, so she just said, "Still, it
      might be a good idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry about it," Harry muttered. He threw the Floo powder
      into the fireplace, and green flames began swirling about. "We'll
      be fine," he said, looking at Fred and George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both of the twins shook their heads. "Don't worry about —" Fred
      began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— we won't follow you," George finished, while at the same time
      both twins silently agreed they would do that. Just in case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded at them, then turned to Monroe. "You know how this
      works?" he asked, indicating the fireplace and green flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Floo travel," Monroe said matter-of-factly. "I guess I
      remember."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, don't guess," Harry retorted, stepping forward. "Watch me
      and do what I do." He stepped into the green flames, turning to
      face the journalist and the others, then said, "Potter-Evans-Verres
      residence!" Harry vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few seconds, Fred gestured toward the fire. "Well, go
      on, then," he told Monroe. "We're coming right after."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked at the others a second, then nodded and stepped
      into the flames as well. "Potter-Evans-Verres residence!" he said,
      as Harry did, and vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred stepped forward, hard on Monroe's heels, but as he stepped
      into the emerald flames they suddenly winked out. He stopped short,
      staring at the fireplace in a moment of confusion, then cursed.
      "Dammit! Harry must've activated his Floo Damper!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Floo Damper was a control that could be installed on any
      fireplace on the Floo Network. It curtailed travel to and from the
      fireplace without removing it from the Network, so homes could be
      made secure from unwanted visitors with a minimum of hassle. Until
      Fred and George invented it, shortly before Hermione became
      Minister of Magic, the Ministry had to be contacted and
      arrangements made for the removal and restoration of a fireplace to
      the Floo Network whenever a family planned to be away for some
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would he do that?" Verity asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think he wants us around while he's talking to Monroe,"
      Fred said, grimly. He looked at George. "He must've cottoned onto
      what we were planning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wouldn't have been that hard," George admitted. "I think we
      gave in a bit too easily."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably," Fred agreed. He rubbed his chin, thinking hard. "I
      think we'd better let Ginny know something's going on. Maybe she
      can pay Harry a visit, pretending it's for business reasons, and
      see what he's up to with Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">=ooo=</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The grates flashing across Monroe's vision began to slow, until
      finally he caught sight of Harry standing beyond the grate in front
      of him, and he felt himself pushed forward and out of the
      fireplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That wasn't too bad —" Monroe started to say, but jerked at a
      sudden BANG as something slammed into his chest. Ropes were winding
      around his chest, his arms and his legs, binding them tightly, so
      tightly that Monroe couldn't keep his balance and fell over on his
      side onto the floor. Harry reached down and removed Monroe's wand
      through a gap in the ropes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They won't be following, Monroe," Harry told him, his face
      close to the journalist's. "I set the damper so no one could
      follow. It's just you and me, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell's going on, Potter?" Monroe shouted angrily.
      "What are you <em class="calibre7">doing</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure you know what I'm doing," Harry said tightly as he
      stood, looking over Monroe's wand briefly before putting it in a
      pocket. "The others can't be a part of this conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh? Why not?" Monroe sneered. "Because of how silly you're
      going to look, being fooled by a Muggle who was really a
      wizard?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said, calmly. "Because of who you really are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe laughed harshly. "And who do you think I am, Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're Lord Voldemort."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
