<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos - Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos Chapter 8: The Magical Singularity, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="38. Harry Potter and the Methods of Chaos"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: The Magical Singularity</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">Updated 2/10/2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Diagon Alley is full of ears…</em><em class="calibre7">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre7">Magical</em> Singularity?" Monroe repeated.
      Comprehension of Harry's method was beginning to dawn on him. "Then
      all this talk about the Technological Singularity —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is just a cover," Harry finished. "I've been using the
      Technological Singularity as a parallel model for the Magical
      Singularity. It only makes sense that's what wizards should be
      trying to achieve — not just the immortality of individuals, or
      even of all wizards, but the ability of <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> to use
      magic, Muggles and wizards alike!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe's brow was furrowed in concentration as he tried to wrap
      his mind around the idea. "I — I suppose I understand," he said at
      last. "But your company looks like it's really working toward the
      Singularity, not just giving it lip service."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It <em class="calibre7">is</em>," Harry agreed. "If a technological Singularity
      can come about before I can create the magical Singularity, it
      probably should. The better advancement always wins, so if
      technology can beat magic to a Singularity, I'll go with
      technology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I think magic is ultimately more powerful than Muggle
      technology, and that's why I've been pursuing a parallel path with
      it. Wizards have managed to keep their existence secret from most
      of humanity for centuries now — if the Magical Singularity comes
      about it could be possible that everyone will be able to use magic.
      That's why I'd like you to —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before we get into what you want from me —" Monroe interrupted,
      then looked around the room "—can we get out of here and discuss
      things somewhere a bit more comfortable? I still feel like you're
      about to interrogate me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later Harry and Monroe were both seated in plush
      recliners in a room Harry had called the "Den Room" in the spinning
      circular room. Each of them now held a drink — Harry had a
      butterbeer and Monroe a Pepsi — Harry <em class="calibre7">did</em> have a supply of
      Pepsi, it turned out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I get what the idea behind the tech Singularity it," Monroe was
      saying as he sipped at his drink. "But I'm not sure what you think
      a magical Singularity is going to entail. Magical knowledge
      increasing faster than wizards can comprehend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something along those lines, but it's going to require
      increased intelligence to handle that," Harry replied. "I've been
      looking for ways to increase human intelligence magically, like
      Rowena Ravenclaw's diadem was supposed to increase the wearer's
      wisdom. So far I haven't come up with anything, probably due to the
      Interdict of Merlin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you tried travelling to locations where the Interdict
      isn't powerful enough to interfere with comprehension when reading
      ancient books?" Monroe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but its effects immediately start to encroach upon an
      unaffected area whenever any magic is used," Harry complained.
      "There are so few places left that I'm afraid to use them before I
      understand how to keep the Interdict from reaching them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you tried travelling to the location using Muggle means,
      and avoided using any kind of magic while you're there?" Monroe
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry said, unhappily. "But the effect still begins to
      creep in almost as soon as I arrive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Monroe mused silently for some time. Then, "Who else
      knows you're working toward a Magical Singularity?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Weasleys have been collecting ancient magic books for me
      for years, but as far as I know they think it's a hobby, that I
      just like to collect books, even useless ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does your wife know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said. "But she may suspect I'm doing more than I'm
      telling her, I've gone on trips without telling her why often
      enough now. But for all I know she might suspect me of having an
      affair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Are</em> you?" Monroe asked, bluntly. "She may suspect you
      for other reasons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled. "I'm not," he replied. "But so far she's made no
      insinuations that I've taken as suspicion on her part."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not even of Ginny Thomas?" Monroe suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was silent for several seconds, frowning. "Why would you
      say that?" he asked at last. "Ginny's married, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe shrugged. "I've noticed the way she looks at you," he
      said. "It seems like more than a profession interest in you or your
      work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you're way off-base," Harry disagreed. "But either way,
      she doesn't know about my research on magic; neither does her
      husband Dean. He knows I'm doing magical research, but he thinks
      it's just to keep my wizarding skills sharp."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the Ministry? If the head Auror has a hard-on for you he
      might have surveillance in place even you don't know about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy?" Harry almost looked amused at that. "Draco's not a
      real threat to me. He's biding his time until his father dies or
      makes him Lord of the Most Ancient and Noble House of Malfoy, and I
      don't think Lucius is anxious to do that, not while his son is in
      such a useful position in the Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was silent for a time. Then, "Well, I'll grant that you
      know him better than I do. And what you tell your wife is your own
      business. As well as what you tell yourself about your relationship
      with Ginny Thomas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I am surprised you haven't brought the Weasleys into this
      project of yours. As I recall, they were a couple of wisenheimers
      at school, but they were pretty brilliant with their magic,
      especially the magical novelties they cobbled up in the first few
      years I was at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are good," Harry agreed. "The reason I haven't gone to
      them is mostly because of their younger brother, Ron. Ron and I met
      the day I went to Hogwarts, on Platform 9¾, and it wasn't a good
      experience. I spoke to Draco Malfoy, who'd I'd met a few days
      earlier in Diagon Alley, and Ron assumed if I was talking to him I
      must be a bad guy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems a bit previous of him," Monroe noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I insulted Quidditch," Harry added, a bit wryly. "Told him
      that the Snitch was a stupid addition that made most of the game
      moot. I think that was the final straw with Ron." Monroe chuckled,
      then suddenly did a double-take at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So all that business of mucking about with the rules of
      Quidditch during our second year — that was <em class="calibre7">your</em> doing?"
      he asked, eyes narrowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid so," Harry admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were a boy of many talents, even then," Monroe said, not
      admiringly. "How did you ever find time to study?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled thinly. "Oh, I was able to make time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked at him for several seconds. "Oh, I get it. You had
      one of those Time Turner things, didn't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How'd you hear about those?" Harry asked, a bit more sharply he
      needed to. "Everyone was supposed to think they were — er, Spimster
      wickets, as I recall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Monroe agreed dryly, "A device that treated the rare but
      non-contagious magical condition called Spontaneous Duplication.
      But just about everyone in Ravenclaw knew what they really were. We
      were all envious of the kids that got them. I wanted one, too, but
      McGonagall never called me into her office to give me one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who knows?" Harry commented. "You might've gotten one your
      third year, when your class schedule increased."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Monroe shrugged. "At the Salem Institute the teachers
      used the Time Turners, not the students, under the assumption that
      adult wizards were better experienced in the intricacies of time
      travel and its hazards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder," Harry said idly, almost to himself. "If the Time
      Turners those Salem wizards used had protective shells on them, to
      prevent anyone from accidentally breaking them…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never saw one," Monroe answered, though Harry hadn't really
      asked the question of him. "So I can't tell you." He drained the
      last of his glass of soda.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any of these books you've been talking about?" he
      asked abruptly. "It might be useful to look at them, if you
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. "Oh, I have a few," he said, standing. "Follow
      me." He led them back to the circular room, where after it stopped
      spinning Harry said, "Tome Room," and a door flashed red. They
      entered that door, following a short corridor that led to a small
      room filled with shelves of books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But what books they were! There were no neatly ordered shelves
      lined with row upon row of classroom texts, but books of all shapes
      and sizes: large wood-and-leather bound tomes, grimoires and
      manuals, small diaries, even loose parchments and scrolls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe was looking around the room in wonderment. "I had no idea
      so many of these old books existed. How many are there in
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Roughly a thousand books," Harry answered. "Maybe half that
      many loose scrolls and sheets of parchment." He took down a coffee
      table-sized book and opened it on a small table, then stepped aside
      so Monroe could examine it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe examined each page carefully. "Some of these spells are
      readable," he mused as he leafed through the tome. "Some of them
      are written in English, even if the wording is archaic. I can even
      read some of the ones written in runes. But yes, some of the words
      in here are nothing but gibberish to me." He looked up at Harry.
      "Do we know how powerful or complex the spell has to be before the
      Interdict makes it unreadable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved an arm around the room, gesturing at the books in
      general. "I've looked through all of these books, and some of them
      seem to have spells ordered by complexity or overall power, but
      it's hard to say what spells we can learn from books today are the
      most powerful ones the Interdict allows us to read. The Patronus,
      Fidelius, and Protean Charms are all complicated spellwork, but all
      of them are available from the Standard Book of Spells, except for
      the Fidelius, which is specialized magic, but even it can be found
      in certain spellbooks in clear language."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe turned to a page with one of the affected spells on it.
      The words were written in runes, which he and Harry could both
      read, but the words made no sense. "Which of these books have you
      tried to take outside the Interdict's effects?" Monroe asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took out his wand and pointed to a book on the opposite
      side of the room. It floated off its shelf and over to him. Monroe
      closed the book he was looking at and they opened Harry's. It, too,
      was full of both clear and Interdict-obscured spells. Harry flipped
      to a page about halfway through the book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here's a spell I'd planned to learn once outside the
      Interdict," he said. They both stared at the text. Like the first
      book, it was written in runes, but there was transliterated text
      written in the Roman alphabet next to the runes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Glycpto Gragnor Fustenis</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Msesno gyan do vodop kakan dozir mechaz veeropo badduga
      voco neobo zsow —<br class="calibre4"/></strong><strong class="calibre8">Deulo bapgo moernoe ves tuo
      bysizi os vettoero —<br class="calibre4"/></strong><strong class="calibre8">Basmo zeoloe fzasula
      theogen gana posento vudu nokwurtz yegrhol
      —<br class="calibre4"/></strong><strong class="calibre8">Zudunu algolo fresen bodogo mazunla —<br class="calibre4"/>
      Festuni lecto alconro poesteo vacuaeliso meonoroso vuptun —<br class="calibre4"/>
      Bagdos verun fallo beguna qaunowe yuoesolo…</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This was one spell I didn't have to translate from the runes,"
      Harry said. "I thought it would save time, since I didn't know how
      much time I'd have before the Interdict would take effect where I
      was, but I didn't get more than the first line translated." He
      pulled out a piece of parchment that was folded and placed at the
      back of the book, and showed it to Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Glycpto Gragnor Fustenis<br class="calibre4"/>
      Mind Extension Potion</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">That's</em> interesting," Monroe commented, sounding
      excited. "But you could only translate one line?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then the Interdict kicked in again," Harry said, in a
      chagrinned tone. "I was very excited to find something like this —
      it was a major disappointment not to be able to translate more than
      a bit of it. That's why we need to find a place the Interdict won't
      immediately render useless to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you tried to dispel the Interdict in an area?" Monroe
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was the first thing I tried," Harry replied. "But there's no
      dispel charm powerful enough to block it, even temporarily." He
      shook his head in frustration. "The Interdict has been the biggest
      impediment I've had in the past decade to bringing about the
      Magical Singularity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On one of the shelves, a small statue of Rowena Ravenclaw
      suddenly flashed red and a small chime sounded. "Hermione's home
      early," Harry said. "Well, that was unexpected. She must be worried
      about me," he smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Monroe. "You might as well meet her," he said.
      "There's no way I could sneak you out of here, anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe gave him a look. "Are we going to tell her anything about
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a word," Harry warned. "As far as you're concerned, I
      invited you here, away from the Weasleys, so I could properly
      apologize for the treatment you received at the Ministry after our
      interview the other day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You never did really apologize for that, by the way," Monroe
      pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't?" Harry smiled again, more evilly this time. "Well, I
      probably would have gotten around to that, eventually…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy was not happy. Not happy at all. But what else was
      new these days?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Head Auror had just received information that the Muggle
      he'd questioned for several hours over a suspicious interview with
      Harry Potter had turned up in Diagon Alley, <em class="calibre7">bought a wand</em>,
      and went to the Weasleys' joke shop, where Harry Potter just
      <em class="calibre7">happened</em> to be having lunch with Fred, George and Ron
      Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Monroe, the Muggle in question, had shown no indication of
      being a wizard when in Malfoy's custody. He'd been Obliviated and
      released. But <em class="calibre7">now</em>, according to Malfoy's source, Potter
      had left the Weasley shop with Monroe, and neither of them had been
      seen since.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was beginning to look like Potter was trying to play him for
      a fool, and Malfoy had already been played for a fool, long before
      he'd ever met Harry Potter. He wasn't going to let Potter get away
      with it again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The question was, how was he going to play this? There was no
      point in going to the Minister — even if she didn't know what was
      going on with Potter and Monroe, she probably wouldn't give him any
      information unless she believed Potter was into something even she
      couldn't protect him from. Potter had the resources these days to
      keep most of his shady business practices off both the Muggle and
      wizarding radars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Monroe? As a Muggle he had merely been a pawn in the ongoing
      game he and Harry Potter played with one another these days, the
      "Catch-Me-If-You-Can" game that Potter dabbled in, such as the gray
      market in Ministry-sanctioned magic documents — books, scrolls, or
      parchments with text that the Interdict of Merlin had rendered
      unreadable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not that more than one couldn't play that game — Malfoy had a
      hundred or so books and scrolls himself, carefully secreted away in
      Malfoy Manor where even the best Aurors in his department couldn't
      detect them. He'd poured over the old books and scrolls himself,
      wondering how he would crack the Interdict if <em class="calibre7">he</em> were
      Harry Potter. There were a group of Unspeakables working on the
      problem as well, but neutralizing the Interdict had been an ongoing
      Ministry project for decades now, if not centuries, and no one was
      any closer to dispelling the Interdict or stopping its spread
      across the world; whenever wizards found a location where the
      Interdict was weak, it would invariably strengthen when someone
      tried to read one of the ancient texts affected by Merlin's
      spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But back to the matter at hand — Potter and Monroe, and whatever
      was going on between them. Potter couldn't be touched unless they
      caught him in a violation of Wizarding law, and it would have to be
      a very obvious violation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe, however, was a different matter entirely. If he'd
      actually bought a wand from Ollivanders, then he was an
      unregistered foreign wizard living in Britain under suspicious
      circumstances; they could pick him up the next time he appeared in
      public. If Potter knew anything about Monroe being a wizard (and it
      seemed certain he did; his source had informed Malfoy that Potter
      had tested Monroe's wizarding abilities) then Malfoy could bring
      him in to give corroborating evidence about Monroe, and there was
      nothing Granger could do to help him without it appearing like she
      was hindering his investigation. If she did <em class="calibre7">that</em>, Draco
      could likely persuade his father to fund a movement to have Granger
      voted out as Minister of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco managed a smile at that. Things weren't really as bad as
      he initially thought! He took two pieces of parchment out of his
      desk and wrote on them for several moments, then pressed a button
      on the lower edge of his desk, a button that summoned only two
      particular Aurors to his office. A few moments later his door
      opened and Crabbe and Goyle stepped in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You remember that Muggle we had in here the other day," Malfoy
      said, more as a statement than a question, and both men nodded
      shortly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it turns out he's <em class="calibre7">not</em> a Muggle — he's a wizard,
      he bought a wand in Diagon Alley and was able to use it. I assume
      you two didn't perform any spells to verify he was a Muggle, did
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Crabbe and Goyle looked at one another in surprise. "Mr.
      Malfoy," Goyle said, hesitantly. "We had no reason to think he was
      anything other than what you told us — a Muggle!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we thought you'd suspected anything like that we'd have
      tested him!" Crabbe protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough," Malfoy said, holding up a hand for silence. "I had no
      reason to think he was anything but a Muggle, either. It looked
      like Potter was passing him hints about the Wizarding world; I
      wanted to catch him on Secrecy violations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if Monroe is really a wizard, then he's in Britain
      illegally, and we can bring him in for questioning. He and Potter
      must have some kind of scheme cooked up, and I want to find out
      what it is." He handed the paper he had just written on to Crabbe.
      "Here's a warrant to search the premises at 93 Diagon Alley for any
      and all information about a wizard known as James Monroe. I want
      you to take an investigative team and make sure they search
      <em class="calibre7">very</em> carefully. You get me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both Crabbe and Goyle smirked. "Sure, Mr. Malfoy," Crabbe nodded
      knowingly. "We'll make sure they turn the entire place over real
      good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," Malfoy said. "I want them closed down the rest of the
      day," he said. "I want to show the Weasleys what they're in for if
      they start getting too cozy with Harry Potter again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if you see Monroe," he went on, handing the second
      parchment to Crabbe, "this is a warrant for his arrest, on the
      charge of failing to register with the Ministry. If you find Potter
      with him, arrest him, too — I'll figure out the appropriate
      charges, but you can tell him aiding and abetting if he asks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both men nodded and lumbered out of the room, leaving Draco
      smiling with satisfaction. At the very least, this would cause a
      major embarrassment for the Minister — at best, the Wizengamot (led
      by his father) would call for her to step down, and demand the
      election of a new Minister. If Draco could buy or steal enough
      votes to win that, it should convince his father that he was at
      last worthy to hold the title of Lord of the Most Ancient and Noble
      House of Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, love," Harry said, giving his wife a peck on the cheek
      as she entered their apartment's living room. "How was your
      day?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Busy," Hermione said, shortly, then put her hand on Harry's
      forehead. "Are you alright? I heard you were not well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The rumors of my illness were greatly exaggerated," Harry
      quipped, as Hermione felt his cheek as well. "I was just having
      some indigestion after lunch with Fred, George and Ron; it's been a
      while since I've had fish and chips — I guess they didn't agree
      with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably from that grease pit across from the Weasleys,"
      Hermione shook her head disapprovingly. "They need another warning
      about their food quality, it seems." She took a small notebook out
      of her robe. "I'll have someone—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a big deal," Harry said, putting a hand over the
      notebook. "None of the others had any symptoms, just me. And I'm
      better now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you want me to make you something to eat?" Hermione asked,
      eyeing him closely. "Or maybe you should lie down for a while
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm fine," Harry waved off the suggestions. "And besides,
      we have a guest I'd like to introduce you to, someone I met in
      Diagon Alley earlier today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Hermione gave him a plaintive look. "I wish you'd
      warned me — I look a mess!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay," Harry said, soothingly. "He and I have just been —
      well, catching up on old times." He turned toward the door and
      called, "James, you can come in now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe entered the room, smiling and nodding toward Hermione.
      "You remember my wife, Hermione Granger-Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't believe we actually met," Monroe said. He put out a
      hand and Hermione shook it, mostly by reflex. "I've seen your
      picture in the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em>, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was giving him a strange look. "Excuse me," she said,
      baffled. "Aren't you supposed to be a <em class="calibre7">Muggle</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought so," Monroe grinned, "until this morning. I woke up
      and suddenly all these memories came flooding into my head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione let go of his hand, her eyes flicking back and forth
      between Monroe and Harry. "Why did you think you were a
      Muggle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Monroe said. "Harry though I —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I came up with a couple of ideas why his memories might have
      been hidden," Harry cut over him. "But we still don't have anything
      concrete to go on, yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Hermione was giving him a sharp look. "Does Malfoy know
      about this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well —" Harry glanced at his watch. "We've been talking for a
      few hours, now, so my guess is, yes, he does. I'm sure someone has
      told him by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both Monroe and Hermione gave him curious looks. "It almost
      sounds like you suspect someone of informing on you," Monroe
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Diagon Alley is full of ears," Harry answered, obliquely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you register at the Ministry of Magic when you entered the
      country?" Hermione asked Monroe. Monroe shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't remember entering Britain as a wizard," he said. "I
      didn't know anything about it at all until today!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Aurors will have a legitimate reason to pick you up if you
      haven't registered as a foreign national living in Wizarding
      Britain within 30 days of entering the country," Hermione told him.
      "You'll have to go in as soon as possible and register."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's one reason why he's here," Harry said. "I'm hoping you
      can grease the wheels down at the Ministry a bit so Malfoy won't
      have any reason to hold him for questioning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe looked startled by the remark. "Questioning?
      <em class="calibre7">Again</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He'll want to grill you for details about how and why you came
      to Britain, your purpose here, and how long you plan to stay,"
      Harry said. "I'm sure he'll suspect some kind of collusion between
      you and me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And with me," Hermione added, unhappily. "If I cut through red
      tape to keep him away from Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing he'll be able to prove," Harry dismissed her concern.
      "After all, he had James Obliviated. The case can be made that it
      went wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I recall," Hermione pointed out. "Mr. Monroe was Obliviated
      <em class="calibre7">several</em> times in the last few days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Every time was justifiable under the circumstances," Harry
      argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head, but Harry was right — at least, as far
      as she knew with the information she currently had. "Fine," she
      sighed, resigned to doing as he'd asked. "I'll have the necessaries
      expedited tomorrow morning. Mr. Monroe, you'll have to come to the
      Ministry tomorrow afternoon to sign the papers granting you status
      as a citizen of Wizarding Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monroe nodded. "Excellent!" Harry clapped him on the shoulder.
      "Hermione and I will treat you to dinner tomorrow night at Mary's
      Place. The food there is quite good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Hermione was shaking her head. "I can't," she said. "I can't
      bypass procedure to make Mr. Monroe a citizen and then be seen
      eating with him right after that. That's too much coincidence even
      for Draco to swallow!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's face fell. "I thought you enjoyed dinner at Mary's,
      love," he said in a disappointed tone. "Malfoy doesn't even need to
      know you're there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gave him a wry look. "How are you going to arrange
      <em class="calibre7">that</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can use the Invisibility Cloak —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes flicked momentarily to Monroe. "Harry, I'm not
      going to sneak around like some thief in the night —!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like that!" Harry objected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it would feel like that to me!" Hermione waved her hands
      as Harry began to argue again. "No, no, no — you and Mr. Monroe go
      and have a nice dinner, you and I can go again some other night."
      She wagged a stern finger at him. "You do <em class="calibre7">owe</em> me for this,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, love. Thank you!" Harry kissed her on the cheek again.
      "James and I are going to make arrangements for him to spend the
      night somewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not here?" Hermione almost looked surprised. "That's probably a
      good idea, actually — Draco would surely suspect something was
      going on if he spent the night here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My thought exactly," Harry agreed. "I'll be back in a little
      while." He and Monroe left the living room, heading to the entrance
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That will be five Galleons," Hannah Abbott said, holding out
      her hand. Monroe dropped the coins onto her palm, and Hannah
      slipped them into a <em class="calibre7">very</em> secure pocket in her robes while
      at the same time extending a key for room 11 toward the unknown
      wizard who'd requested a room with her other hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Checkout time is noon, Mr. Smith," she added, as the man nodded
      and began to turn away ("James Smith" was the name Monroe had
      signed in under). "Breakfast is served from seven-thirty to
      eleven."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Monroe smiled at the woman. He picked up the two
      butterbeers he'd ordered and turned to walk back to a table not far
      from the door to the pub. On his way a small man at a table raised
      a mug as he passed, smiling. Monroe nodded and raised a bottle as
      well, but gave the man a curious look as he continued on to the
      table where he sat across from another man sat, a cloak and hood
      concealing his features.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah was looking at the hooded man as well. There was
      something familiar about him, but the hood and cloak obscured his
      features too much for her to recognize him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who was that?" Monroe nodded toward the small man, who was
      taking large drinks from his mug between raising to each of the
      other patrons in the bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned slightly to look around Monroe. "Oh, that's Dedalus
      Diggle," he said, leaning back quickly so Diggle wouldn't notice
      him and raise another toast. Harry didn't want to be noticed — it
      would also draw attention to Monroe, and they could certainly do
      without that! "An interesting fellow. He's obviously celebrating
      something this evening — I've never seen him drink so freely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, anyway, I'm set for the night," Monroe said as he set the
      other butterbeer he was carrying in front of Harry, who picked it
      up and took a quick gulp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She'll have everything set by lunch," he said, carefully
      avoiding using his wife's name in case Hannah was listening more
      closely than she appeared to be. "You can go in about one. I expect
      there'll be some — discussion — about your status, but it should go
      through."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then?" Monroe prompted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then we can resume <em class="calibre7">our</em> discussions," Harry
      continued. Monroe nodded agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have a good night's rest," Harry said, then tipped back the
      bottle of butterbeer, draining it. "Ahhhh…" His hood slipped back
      for a moment but he pulled it back over his face quickly. He wiped
      his mouth with the back of his hand, grinning at Monroe. "See you
      later, James."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take it easy," Monroe said, and Harry rose and left the Leaky
      Cauldron. Monroe drained his own bottle, then stood and walked up
      the wooden staircase leading to the rooms above the bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah, who had watched both men leave, stood pondering what
      (and who) she thought she'd just seen, then informed one of her
      barmaids she would be in her office for a few minutes and entered
      the small room where she conducted her most important business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sat down at her desk, took a small piece of parchment and a
      quill, and began writing, certain that the person the note was for
      would find it interesting that Harry Potter had just been in the
      Leaky Cauldron with a wizard she'd never seen before. A wizard who
      matched the description of a fugitive the Ministry was on the
      lookout for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">=ooo=</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">Author's Note: For those of you who have been wondering,
      Less Wrong and I are not the same person.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
