<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Philosopher's Red Herring - The Philosopher's Red Herring Chapter 1: Prologue, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Philosopher's Red Herring"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Prologue</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: JK Rowling owns Harry Potter. Nicolas Flamel is kind
      of fuzzy as a fictionalised representation of a real person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Update:</strong> After much consideration, I've decided
      to put this story <strong class="calibre7">up for adoption</strong> and/or
      co-authorship. By this, I mean that I am releasing it to the
      community for anyone who wants to write a continuation,
      sight-unseen, but I am also willing to beta-read or otherwise
      provide input into the continuation, including doing a little bit
      of the writing. I only request that if you choose to continue it,
      you keep it <strong class="calibre7">rated T</strong> and maintain <strong class="calibre7">a
      reliable update schedule</strong>. Please PM me if you are
      interested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The reason I am doing this is that I no longer believe the story
      is a good fit for me. I wanted to make it two or three times
      faster-paced than my other stories, covering 3-5 years of time in
      only 40 chapters, plus I never had any clear outline for the story.
      So while I still like the idea, at the end of the day, I don't
      believe my writing style matches my vision for this story, and I'm
      not keen on yet another Hogwarts years rewrite anyway, so I think
      it's time to give it up. Rest assured that this is
      <strong class="calibre7">not</strong> reflective of my writing in general, but only
      of the unique problems of this story.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry struggled to keep Quirrell away from the Philosopher's
      Stone as the man screamed in pain, and the face of Voldemort on the
      back of his head kept shouting, "KILL HIM! KILL HIM!" His own head
      felt like it was on fire. He felt Quirrell's arm being wrenched
      from his grasp just before everything went dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next thing he knew, Harry was lying on something soft and
      slowly blinking awake. He didn't know what had happened. All he
      knew was that the first thing he saw clearly was a pair of piercing
      blue eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He blinked again. The eyes were not set into the face of Albus
      Dumbledore. In fact, they belonged to a man he had never seen
      before. He was a young man—younger than any of the teachers, maybe
      in his late twenties. He had a round, kindly face, but a rather
      long nose. He had light brown hair that he wore long, but with a
      strange haircut—shoulder-length on one side, but only falling to
      his chin on the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Harry," the man said in a soft voice, leaning over the
      hospital bed. "My name is Nicolas Flamel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes almost popped of his head. "Mr. Flamel!" he gasped.
      "I'm so sorry! It was Quirrell! He got the Philosopher's
      Stone—!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Calm down, Harry." Flamel's voice sounded even more
      grandfatherly than Dumbledore's as the young-looking man reached
      out and laid a hand on his shoulder. "There is something you need
      to know…There <em class="calibre9">is</em> no Philosopher's Stone. There never
      <em class="calibre9">was</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh-wh-what…?" Harry said. His brain couldn't process the words.
      They didn't make any sense. "Th-there's not…? But…but that book
      Hermione found—it said—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That I am well over six hundred years old. Yes, I am, but not
      because of alchemy." He chuckled a little. "Even muggle historians
      will tell you that I didn't become famous for alchemy until two
      hundred years after my supposed death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how—?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Elixir of Life," Flamel said, "is not created by alchemy,
      nor is it commonly known by that name. I would not expect you to
      know of such things at your age, Harry, but there is a potion
      called the Polyjuice Potion, which allows you to take on the
      appearance of another for a period of time. All you have to do is
      add a piece of that person, usually a strand of hair. You will take
      the form of that person <em class="calibre9">exactly</em> as he was when you took
      the hair from his head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded in understanding: "So if you took a hair from a
      young person…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would become young like them for as long as you took the
      potion, yes. And it can do more than that. Not only does it turn
      back the clock, but for many serious injuries, a dose of Polyjuice
      Potion primed by an uninjured person will repair the injury long
      enough to get to a Healer. It's saved my life several times that
      way in addition to my regular usage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, certainly, I could have taken hair from some other young
      man—or woman, for that matter—and I often have, but it always feels
      more natural, and is safer, to be in my own skin. This is my
      original face, in case you were wondering. You see, every six
      months from the time I was twenty-five to the time I was
      seventy-five, I cut my hair and saved it for use in the Polyjuice
      Potion. Polyjuice comes in various strengths, but the strongest
      form lasts for twelve hours. In that case, a full head of hair
      provides enough to last for a century. The only downside is that
      each hair retains a memory of being in the middle of that haircut."
      He motioned to his strange hairstyle, which Harry now recognised as
      being cut on only one side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was in awe, his mouth hanging open. He knew magic was
      powerful, but even so, the Philosopher's Stone and the Elixir of
      Life had seemed like some distant fantasy, not something that could
      be mass produced. If he'd known what could be done with ordinary
      potions, he would have tried a lot harder to work past Snape this
      year. It took a couple of minutes for words to come back to him.
      "You mean, you can live for thousands of years just on your own
      hair?" he said shakily. "Why hasn't anyone else done that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, many have, but most fail. You have to drink the potion
      every twelve hours without fail, never getting a bad batch, never
      losing it or having it stolen, never oversleeping and missing a
      dose, for hundreds of years on end. Changing back to a
      six-hundred-year-old man won't make you turn to dust, but it
      <em class="calibre9">will</em> probably kill you before you can get some more
      potion. Perenelle and I drink the potion every eight hours just to
      be sure, and we always have at least three overlapping batches
      brewing at once, and even then, we have had some very close calls.
      Most who have tried this method died before they reached two
      hundred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That made a surprising amount of sense, Harry thought. If
      cheating death were easy, everybody would do it. Still, that wasn't
      the only thing the Philosopher's Stone was supposed to do. "What
      about the gold?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flamel chuckled: "That was the easy part. I've been investing in
      gold mines since the reign of Louis XIII."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry actually laughed. Maybe he was getting spoilt thinking
      there was a magical explanation for everything. But still, now that
      he could make sense of the situation, something was still troubling
      him. "Mr. Flamel," he asked, "did Professor Dumbledore know there
      was no Philosopher's Stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that, the old man sighed: "I'm am sorry to say that he did,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then he knew—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That there was no danger? Yes. But I am afraid it is worse than
      that. Harry…you were set up from the start."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That threw him for a loop more than anything else "What do you
      mean?" he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The only real protection on the false Stone was the cerberus,
      and Hagrid, bless him, is not good at keeping secrets. He was all
      but certain to tell you how to get past it. The rest of the
      protections could be beaten by any competent fourth-year student
      with a good chess game. The entire dungeon was set up as a lure for
      Voldemort—and for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For me? But why would Dumbledore want to get me and Voldemort
      together?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is a prophecy," Flamel said with great solemnity, "the
      details of which are currently known only to Dumbledore, but which
      says that you are the one with the power to defeat Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"M-me?" Harry squeaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but that was not the plan for this year. Your encounter in
      the dungeons was, as far as I can tell, Dumbledore's ill-conceived
      attempt at <em class="calibre9">training</em> you." Harry got a shocked and
      horrified look on his face. "I quite agree," Flamel acknowledged
      him. "He wanted you to face Voldemort in a controlled environment,
      one where he could step in and help you if need be, but it
      backfired. Fighting Quirrell to keep the false Stone away from him
      nearly killed you. When I confronted Dumbledore, he claimed he
      wanted to help you train whilst still letting you have a normal
      childhood. Instead, he nearly ended it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked in disbelief. People joked about Dumbledore being
      mad all the time, but it looked like he really was. That was about
      the most insane plan he'd ever heard, and after this past year,
      that was saying a lot. He glanced around the Hospital Wing and
      noticed something else: "Where <em class="calibre9">is</em> Professor
      Dumbledore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flamel smiled again and said, "I decided that young man needed a
      time out."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">48 Hours Earlier</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore finished his paperwork and rose from his desk.
      It was time he checked on Harry again. He walked to his office
      door, as usual, and opened it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And came out in his bedroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked back through was should have been the door to his
      closet. He was indeed looking into his office. He stuck his arm
      back through the door frame and waved it, but nothing seemed amiss
      about the door itself. He walked through his apartments the long
      way until he came back to his office and looked through the door
      that ought to lead to the rest of the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was still looking into his bedroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A quick check revealed that every door and window he could reach
      led back around to another one in his apartments. The Floo was
      sealed outright. Albus Dumbledore thought he had seen it all, but
      this was a trick he had never encountered before. And he had no
      idea how to get out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fawkes?" he said tentatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix squawked at him indignantly and flamed out of sight.
      Fawkes hadn't been too keen on his plan for Harry either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore walked through the door to his bedroom again and saw
      something he hadn't noticed before. There was a basket of
      unleavened bread on his bed, and there were three changes of
      clothes laid out for him—all of them robes of coarse, black goat's
      hair of the kind traditionally worn for penance in the middle
      ages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Clearly, Nicolas was more angry than he'd thought—and less
      forthcoming with his lore than he had always believed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll let him out as soon as you get out of here," Flamel told
      Harry, to the boy's amusement. "It's only fair that he suffer the
      same sentence you have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what happens now?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, officially, the Philosopher's Stone has been destroyed to
      keep it out of the wrong hands, and Perenelle and I are setting our
      affairs in order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had heard enough spy movies from his cupboard to guess
      where this was going. "And unofficially?" he ventured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unofficially, Perenelle and I can be anyone we wish. We can
      disappear from the world, but we won't be far. <em class="calibre9">I</em> am going
      to train you, Harry—properly—just as I trained Dumbledore to defeat
      Gellert Grindelwald. It will have to be in secret, though. Baba
      Yaga will have my head if I interfere in the affairs of mortals
      openly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had only a vague idea of what that meant, but it didn't
      sound good. "How, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that is where Polyjuice is such a useful tool. While you
      were asleep, I tracked down a young man who has been misusing magic
      to his own ends, to great harm to others, and I took the liberty of
      relieving him of his identity and his rather impressive hair. This
      summer, that man will suddenly decide to retire from his life of
      adventuring to become your new Defence Against the Dark Arts
      professor—Professor Gilderoy Lockhart."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
