<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Philosopher's Red Herring - The Philosopher's Red Herring Chapter 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Philosopher's Red Herring"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: Calcination of Harry Potter yields JK Rowling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Parts of this chapter are quoted from <em class="calibre9">Harry Potter and the
      Chamber of Secrets</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: I wasn't going to touch this story again for a while yet,
      but I decided to crank out a new chapter just to move it higher in
      my story list and, since I'm planning to eventually continue it in
      long form. Enjoy.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had not received any letters from Master Flamel in the
      stack Dobby had stolen from Ron and Hermione, but he hadn't
      expected to. Flamel had said he would need time to set up his new
      identity, and he couldn't raise suspicions by being in contact with
      him before his official debut. That was unfortunate since Flamel
      probably would have actually done something to investigate if he
      hadn't received replies to his letters. Unfortunately, Harry hadn't
      had the opportunity to contact him for help all summer, and
      instead, he wound up flying halfway across the country with Ron,
      Fred, and George in an enchanted car. At least it got him away from
      the Dursleys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs. Weasley predictably went ballistic and yelled at the boys
      for long enough to impress even Harry, and he'd grown up with the
      Dursleys. She let him know she didn't blame him, which was nice,
      but the others got an earful, a quick breakfast, and were sent out
      to de-gnome the garden as punishment. Harry went along with them,
      partly out of solidarity and partly because he was curious about
      life in a magical household.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">Now, let's see what Lockhart's got to say on the subject—"
      said Mrs. Weasley.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eared pricked up as Mrs. Weasley pulled down a heavy
      book from the mantelpiece. The title <em class="calibre9">Gilderoy
      Lockhart</em><em class="calibre9">'s Guide to Household Pests</em> was embossed in
      fancy gold letters on the cover above a moving photograph of a very
      handsome wizard with wavy blond hair and bright blue eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum, we know how to de-gnome a garden," said George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could I see that, Mrs. Weasley?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, Harry, if my boys think they know better than
      Lockhart. But you won't find a better creature-wrangler than him
      anywhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum fancies him," Fred whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, she was heartbroken when he got married," George
      agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Married?" Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be ridiculous, boys," Mrs. Weasley said, although her
      cheeks turned pink. "It was a beautiful wedding. I saw the photos
      in the <em class="calibre9">Prophet</em>. Very sudden, of course, but you can't
      argue with true love."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was pretty sure that wedding was about anything but true
      love—or <em class="calibre9">new</em> true love, at least. He'd bet good money that
      it was actually to establish Perenelle Flamel's new identity. He
      wondered if she would be at Hogwarts too, and what she would be
      doing if she were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked down at the photo on the book cover. If was his first
      look at the man Master Flamel would be impersonating as the new
      Defence Professor. When he skimmed over it later, the book gave the
      impression of a man with lots of knowledge about magical creatures,
      and from what Mrs. Weasley said, it sounded like he was a powerful
      wizard—someone who would make a good Defence Professor. But Flamel
      said he'd been hurting people by misusing magic, and Lockhart
      sounded very self-important in the book, so Harry wouldn't be
      surprised if he were a big fake. But he couldn't say anything about
      that to Mrs. Weasley. As far as she knew, he didn't know anything
      about Gilderoy Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">De-gnoming the garden consisted of spinning the gnomes around
      and tossing them over the hedge. The RSPCA would probably have
      something to say about that, but the little creatures were tougher
      than they looked. They got right back up and crawled back under the
      hedge if you weren't careful. After that was done, Mr. Weasley came
      home and managed about five minutes sitting at the same table as
      Harry without noticing he was there, he was so excited about his
      job raiding wizards who liked to prank muggles. Ron quickly
      extricated Harry from that situation before Mrs. Weasley could go
      off again about the car. Meanwhile, Ginny was so awestruck around
      Harry that he could barely catch a glimpse of her. The whole Burrow
      seemed like complete chaos, but at the end of the day, he thought
      it was the best house he'd ever been in.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">About a week after Harry arrived at the Burrow, Hogwarts letters
      arrived for everyone, including him. It wasn't much different from
      his original acceptance letter last year—just telling him to catch
      the Hogwarts Express from King's Cross on the first of September,
      but it did include a list of new books he would need:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Second-Year Students Will Require:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2 by Miranda
      Goshawk</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Break with a Banshee by Gilderoy Lockhart</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Gadding with Ghouls by Gilderoy Lockhart</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Holidays with Hags by Gilderoy Lockhart</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Travels with Trolls by Gilderoy Lockhart</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Voyages with Vampires by Gilderoy Lockhart</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Wanderings with Werewolves by Gilderoy Lockhart</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Year with the Yeti by Gilderoy Lockhart</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Students may present this letter at participating bookshops
      to receive a discount on Gilderoy Lockhart</em><em class="calibre9">'s
      books.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That made Harry even more certain of his opinion of the real
      Lockhart. Unless his books really were that good in and of
      themselves—and <em class="calibre9">Gilderoy Lockhart</em><em class="calibre9">'s Guide to Household
      Pests</em> hadn't impressed him—only a <em class="calibre9">really</em> big-headed
      person would make everyone by all of his books when he was teaching
      the class. Flamel was certainly playing the part well in that case,
      although Harry suspected the discount was his own addition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's so nice of Lockhart to offer a student discount," Mrs.
      Weasley said happily. Harry suspected she was more relieved than
      she let on. The Weasleys didn't have a whole lot of money to
      spare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even with a discount, this many Lockhart books won't be cheap,"
      George pointed out, comparing letters. "Look, they want Ginny and
      Percy to get the same books. How does that make sense?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure they're very good references, George," Mrs. Weasley
      insisted. "After all, you use <em class="calibre9">Fantastic Beasts</em> and <em class="calibre9">One
      Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi</em> all seven years, don't
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't see why we need <em class="calibre9">more</em> creature books, then," Fred
      muttered. "Bet it's <em class="calibre9">really</em> 'cause the new Defence
      teacher's a fan." Mrs. Weasley glared at him, and he turned back to
      his breakfast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe Lockhart <em class="calibre9">is</em> the new Defence teacher," Harry
      said, suppressing a smirk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I bet that would be exciting," Mrs. Weasley agreed, though
      doubtless for different reasons. "But I doubt it. I'm sure the man
      has more interesting things to do." Harry couldn't wait to see her
      reaction when she found out the truth.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">They arranged to go shopping in Diagon Alley the following
      Wednesday, at the same time Hermione was going to be there. This
      had less than stellar results, since Harry had never travelled by
      Floo before and came out the wrong grate in a pawn shop in the
      dodgy part of town. He was a little surprised the magical world had
      such things, though he probably shouldn't have been. He was also
      surprised to see someone as posh as Draco Malfoy in there, though
      he shouldn't have been surprised by that either given his family's
      reputation. Luckily, Hagrid was there to lead him back to the
      Weasleys and Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After finishing their other errands, they made it to Flourish
      and Blott's, the main bookshop in Diagon Alley, and they were
      surprised to see a crowd that stretched out the door. A banner
      across the upper floor windows explained why:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">GILDEROY LOCKHART</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">will be signing copies of his autobiography</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">MAGICAL ME</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Today 12:30 P.M. to 4:30 P.M.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, <em class="calibre9">that</em> was quite the coincidence, Harry thought.
      What were the odds he'd be able to see Master Flamel—or at least he
      assumed it was Flamel by now—before he got to school?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">We can actually meet him!" Hermione squealed. "I mean, he's
      written almost the whole booklist!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't tell her the man they were about to meet almost
      certainly wasn't Lockhart and was actually a far better wizard to
      boot, so he kept his mouth shut. Interestingly, the crowd mostly
      seemed to be made up of witches around Mrs. Weasley's age, and Mrs.
      Weasley was just as taken with him as the rest of them. They
      grabbed the requisite copies of <em class="calibre9">The Standard Book of Spells,
      Grade 2</em> and slowly worked their way through the line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, there he is," Mrs. Weasley pointed out, "and it looks like
      he's brought his wife, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gilderoy Lockhart" came into view looking very much like his
      pictures on the book covers, only more so. He was seated at a table
      surrounded by pictures of the original Lockhart's oblivious smiling
      face. His actual smile was so white it must have been maintained
      with magic and looked very self-important and over the top. Harry
      thought he was a really good actor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman who Harry was certain was Flamel's wife lounged
      against the wall behind him and wore a much more natural smile.
      Perenelle Flamel seemed to be wearing the form of a dark-haired
      Italian beauty, which drew the eyes of all the wizards in the shop.
      She looked very young and didn't carry herself at all like she was
      six hundred years old—nor did Flamel himself, for that matter.
      Despite being young-looking, his manner had seemed even more
      grandfatherly than Dumbledore's back in the Hospital Wing, but now,
      both of their masks were flawless. Of course, they'd had a lot of
      time to practice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An annoying little man with a camera started taking pictures for
      the <em class="calibre9">Daily Prophet</em>, and "Lockhart" looked up and noticed
      Harry. <em class="calibre9">Then, he leapt to his feet and positively shouted,</em>
      <em class="calibre9">"It</em> can't <em class="calibre9">be Harry Potter!</em><em class="calibre9">"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He dove forward and grabbed Harry by the arm, pulling him to the
      front of the shop. The crowd applauded for some reason Harry
      couldn't fathom. People had been excited to see him before, but
      never that excited. "Lockhart" shook his hand like he was trying to
      dislocate his shoulder and pulled him in for a photo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice, big smile, Harry," he said. "Alaina, let's get you in the
      picture." His wife joined them on Harry's other side. And suddenly,
      he heard Nicolas Flamel's voice—not as Lockhart, but his original
      grandfatherly voice—<em class="calibre9">in his head</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Sorry for embarrassing you, Harry, but after this, it
      won</em><em class="calibre9">'t look suspicious for us to be seen together. Just
      play along for now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded absently and played along by trying to get away
      like he would have anyway, but Flamel threw an arm around his
      shoulders and held him tightly in place. He addressed the crowd
      again:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">Ladies and gentlemen," he said loudly, waving for quiet.
      "What an extraordinary moment this is! The perfect moment for me to
      make a little announcement I've been sitting on for quite some
      time!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">When young Harry here stepped into Flourish and Blotts
      today, he only wanted to buy my autobiography—"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Are you kidding me?</em> thought Harry. If the real Lockhart
      acted like that, he was glad he was anywhere but here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But he had <em class="calibre9">no idea</em>," Flamel continued, and Harry
      thought he could hear a chuckle in his head, "that he would be
      leaving with my entire collected works, free of charge—and that is
      only the beginning, for he and his schoolmates will be soon be
      getting the <em class="calibre9">real</em> magical me. It is my pleasure to announce
      that I will be taking up the post of Defence Against the Dark Arts
      Professor at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry managed a smile as he found a heavy stack of about ten
      books dropped on him while the crowd cheered again. Flamel made a
      show of carelessly ignoring his predicament. "But I'm not the only
      new teacher Hogwarts will be receiving," he continued. "For ladies
      and gentlemen, my beautiful wife, Alaina, will <em class="calibre9">also</em> be
      teaching at Hogwarts this autumn in her chosen field…of
      History."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his eyebrows in spite of himself. That really was
      news to him. Maybe History class would be good for more than just
      sleeping through with her teaching.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Flamels sent him on his way, slightly dazed as they
      continued to bask in the fame. Harry couldn't stand to play that
      part full time if he had to. He wondered how they managed it. As
      they left, he handed all of Lockhart's books to Ginny, who blushed
      deeply while she struggled with their weight plus her new cauldron.
      That would take a little more pressure off the Weasleys from having
      to buy so many.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rest of the trip was disrupted by a fistfight between Mr.
      Weasley and Mr. Malfoy. Harry wondered if the Flamels would
      intervene there, but Hagrid got there first and pulled them apart.
      Mrs. Weasley was probably happier that "Gilderoy Lockhart" didn't
      see it, anyway.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The end of summer came too soon, and the day they were to go
      back to Hogwarts was especially hectic. George forgot his
      fireworks, and then Fred forgot his broomstick, and then Ginny
      forgot her diary, and they barely got to King's Cross in time to
      catch the train. For a moment, it seemed that they'd just made it,
      but then, just as Harry and Ron were about to go through the
      barrier onto Platform Nine and Three-Quarters…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">CRASH!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both of their trolleys slammed against a solid barrier and
      tipped over, scattering their belongings all over the platform and
      attracting the attention of all the muggles around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre9">Why can't we get through?" Harry hissed to Ron.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno—" Ron replied. "I don't get it. The gateway's sealed
      itself. And now we've missed the train…Harry…what if Mum and Dad
      can't get back? What do we do? Have you got any muggle money?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scoffed and shook his head: "D'you think the Dursleys
      would ever give me pocket money?" He thought to himself about who
      he could go to for help. Flamel would certainly investigate if he
      didn't show up on the train, but would he know to look for him at
      King's Cross, or would he go to the Dursleys' house first? But Mr.
      and Mrs. Weasley would surely do something long before that. "Maybe
      we should just wait by the car," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, the car!" Ron exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can fly the car to Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fly the car? But—?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, we're stuck here, right? And we have to get to school.
      And underage wizards are allowed to use magic in an emergency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But…" there had to be a better way. Could he maybe send a
      message to Flamel? No, he wasn't confident Hedwig could beat the
      train. They could probably walk to Diagon Alley, but what then?
      "How will your parents get home, then?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They don't need the car!" Ron insisted. "They can Apparate!
      They only bother with Floo powder because we're all underage and
      not allowed to Apparate yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wait, could that work? "Hold on, Ron. Can we Floo to
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron stopped short. "I…don't know," he said. "I wouldn't know the
      address or anything—if it's just Hogwarts or if it's something
      else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can someone else here help us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno. Walk to Diagon Alley maybe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All that way with our trolleys and Hedwig and Scabbers?" Ron
      said incredulously. "We're already attracting too much attention.
      Come on." He started pushing his trolley towards the exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ron, wait!" Harry called after him. "Can you even drive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure. It can't be that hard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't convinced. You had to be seventeen to drive in the
      muggle world, and even in the air, this couldn't be that safe. As
      much as it sounded like a great adventure, it also sounded like a
      bad idea. He'd had a lot of time to think over the summer. Master
      Flamel had told him he needed to get more serious about training
      and learning magic, and yet, he always seemed to be running off on
      some dangerous adventure that nearly got him killed. In fact, of
      the half dozen times he could have died last year, most of them had
      been his own fault for charging off on some dangerous
      adventure—often for good reasons, but still in a very foolish
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Did he really expect three first years to be able to do
      <em class="calibre9">anything</em> to stop the dark wizard he'd thought was Snape?
      Or even to get through security features that had stymied a mature
      wizard for months? It was ridiculous, and after Flamel revealed
      Dumbledore's "test" for what it was, he realised it had been
      laughably easy, and he could think of a dozen ways to make it more
      secure without hardly trying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And before that, did he really think it was a good idea to run
      off and warn Hermione on his own that there was a man-eating beast
      loose in the school when there was a prefect <em class="calibre9">right there</em>
      he could have told instead? And now, there was apparently a
      prophecy that he would defeat Voldemort, and he didn't want to die
      trying, much less in some stupid accident before he even got that
      far.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which was why his better judgement was shouting at him that two
      twelve-year-olds trying to fly an enchanted car across the country
      was a <em class="calibre9">really bad idea!</em> He just needed to find a logical
      argument that would convince Ron (and himself, a little bit) that
      it was better to wait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Ron," he said, hurrying to keep up. "There were other
      people on the platform besides your mum and dad. They wouldn't be
      able to get back through either, and some of them had little kids,
      right? I mean, you can't be the only one with a little sister." In
      all honesty, Harry didn't know anyone personally who he
      <em class="calibre9">knew</em> had a younger sibling who wasn't in Hogwarts yet, but
      he'd seen younger kids on the platform before, so it wasn't like
      they all stayed with a sitter or something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron slowed down and tilted his head. "Yeah, I suppose," he
      admitted. "So I guess hopefully one of them knows what to do—or at
      least can Apparate to the Ministry and ask for help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like your dad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, yeah," Ron said, embarrassed. "In fact, he's probably done
      that already by now. I mean, he knows everyone there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So they'll probably have it sorted pretty soon," Harry said.
      "We'd better get back before they get through…And besides, flying
      the car's probably a bad idea," he noted. "Your Mum already got mad
      when you took the car <em class="calibre9">once</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron turned a very pasty shade and nodded quickly. "Yeah, we'd
      better get back," he agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were none too soon getting back to the barrier, for just
      minutes after they did, several wizards in official-looking robes
      walked up at a brisk pace and started casting spells Harry didn't
      recognise on the whole area, including the passing muggles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, good, the Ministry's here," Ron said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are they doing?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obliviating the muggles—making sure they don't remember
      anything weird. They always do that when magic stuff happens where
      they can see it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh…" Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A man in a brown robe that resembled a trench coat walked over
      to them. "You boys missed the train?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, yes, sir," Harry said. "The barrier sealed itself right
      before we went through."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we'll get you taken care of as soon as we unseal the
      platform," he assured them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A man whose nametag read Cattermole was running his wand over
      the barrier. A moment later he gave a shout and jumped back, and
      suddenly, several witches and wizards came tumbling out of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got it?" the man in the trench coat asked him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, the barrier unsealed itself, Auror," Cattermole replied.
      "There was definitely some kind of seal on it, but it vanished
      almost as soon as I started poking it. I didn't even get a good
      look at it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, stay here until we get the platform cleared out, just in
      case," the Auror told him. "If it doesn't come back, we'll just
      have to chalk it up to magical vandalism, I suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley came rushing back
      through the barrier. "Ron! Harry!" Mrs. Weasley exclaimed and
      hugged them conspicuously so that Ron was decidedly embarrassed.
      "Thank goodness we found you! We thought you were right behind
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were, Mum," Ron insisted. "The barrier sealed itself on us.
      We would've been on time if it hadn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened? Why couldn't you get through?" Mr. Weasley
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No idea," Harry said. "But how will we get to school,
      though?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no need to worry about that, Harry, dear," Mrs. Weasley
      said. "We'll drive you to the Leaky Cauldron. It's just three
      sickles to take the public Floo to Hogsmeade. You can take a
      carriage from there with the rest of the students who live in the
      village."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned. He didn't like the sound of that. "The Floo?" he
      said. "That didn't go so well last time. What if I come out in the
      wrong city?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll never get any better unless you practice," she insisted.
      "Come along."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately, Harry didn't botch the Floo and successfully came
      out in the Three Broomsticks like he was supposed to. Mr. Weasley
      came through with him and Ron and explained to the landlady, Madam
      Rosmerta what had happened. She agreed to hold their trunks in the
      back room and make sure they got on a carriage to make it to the
      castle in time for the Welcome Feast. And after that, they were
      left to their own devices, as Mr. Weasley had to go to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, this is nice," Ron commented as they sipped a pair of
      gillywaters (Mr. Weasley had told them no butterbeer). "Students
      don't normally get to come here till third year—you know, unless
      they live here. It's too bad Hermione's not here, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it's nice," Harry said absently. He was busy jotting down
      a message to Master Flamel. He figured he would want to know about
      the strange goings-on he'd experienced this summer. Harry rose and
      opened Hedwig's cage, holding the note out to her. "I want you to
      take this to Professor Lockhart," his whispered to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hedwig barked in a tone he took to be annoyance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, <em class="calibre9">Gilderoy</em> Lockhart—that is, the man pretending
      to be him. You know who I mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She barked approvingly and held out her leg for him. He tied the
      note to it, and she flew off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who're you writing at a time like this, Harry?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned at him: "You're gonna think I'm mad, mate. It was
      Gilderoy Lockhart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lockhart? You <em class="calibre9">are</em> mad. What're you doing writing that
      git?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a lot about him you don't know, Ron," he replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">About half an hour later, "Gilderoy Lockhart" swaggered into the
      Three Broomsticks. He winked at Madam Rosmerta (despite playing the
      part of a newly-married man), ordered some kind of expensive,
      fruity cocktail, and sauntered over to Harry's and Ron's table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, Harry, Harry," he said with a patronising grin. He
      ignored Ron's glare. "I heard you had a spot of trouble with the
      train this morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Professor," Harry started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mind if I join you?" Flamel said even as he sat down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't mind if I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, this is my friend, Ron Weasley, Professor," Harry cut
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flamel only spared Ron a casual glance, but Harry caught the
      intense look in his eyes and was sure he was taking in every
      detail. "Yes, of course," he said carelessly. "So let's hear about
      this trouble with trains. I'm sure it's a fascinating tale."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry explained, with some grudging help from Ron, about how the
      barrier sealed itself and what happened when the Ministry officials
      arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the Auror said it was probably vandalism," he finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very interesting," Flamel said. "It definitely sounds like
      someone was targeting you—either with a spell keyed to you or
      lurking in the shadows. Did you notice anyone around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I—I wasn't really looking," Harry admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Always be aware of your surroundings, Harry. That's lesson
      one," Flamel replied. "You never know when trouble is going to find
      you." Ron perked up and paid attention now that "Lockhart" had said
      something practical for once. "Now, we can't rule out a prank, but
      it's definitely suspicious. Do you know of anyone who would want to
      keep you from getting on the train?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No—well, there's Dobby…But he must have known I'd get to
      Hogwarts some other way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's this, now? Who's Dobby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the other thing I wanted to tell you about, Professor.
      You see, on my birthday, this mad house elf showed up in my bedroom
      and tried to convince me not to go back to Hogwarts because there
      was a plot to make something really bad happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aha, a fiendish plot!" Flamel said eagerly. "Sounds like
      something that's right up my alley. Come, now, Harry. Spare no
      detail."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron actually started to get into it as Harry told his tale,
      though he'd only heard most of it secondhand. Harry mentioned how
      he'd first seen Dobby staring at him from the hedges and ran
      through as much of the conversation in his bedroom as he could
      remember, Ron filling in a couple of things he'd forgotten. Dobby
      was—or at least claimed to be—coming to him without his master's
      permission. He strongly implied that his master was the one behind
      the plot to "make terrible things happen" at Hogwarts. It was
      pretty clear that his master treated him very badly to the point
      that he had to regularly punish himself. Unfortunately, he couldn't
      tell who his master was. Flamel acted dismissive of that, but he
      made particular note of what Harry thought was a hint to who was
      behind the plot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He said it wasn't Voldemort with emphasis on
      'He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named'," Harry explained. "It sounded like a
      hint, but I don't get what he was driving at, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No…Very odd…" Flamel agreed. "If I had to guess, I'd say he was
      trying to tell you it was one of Voldemort's followers. Of course,
      that category includes most of the people in the country who
      <em class="calibre9">would</em> do something like that, so it doesn't help us much.
      But never fear. Gilderoy Lockhart is on the case. I'll riddle it
      out before you can say <em class="calibre9">Peskipiksi Pesternomi.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That made Harry feel better. Later, as he finished his story,
      Flamel raised an eyebrow at him getting a warning letter for
      Dobby's Hover Charm, but didn't comment on it. However, when Harry
      mentioned in passing getting in big trouble with his relatives, he
      pressed him to explain further. Then when Harry told him about the
      Dursley's locking him in his room and half-starving him ("We had to
      rip the bars off his window with the car," said Ron), Harry saw the
      man's facade crack for the first time—as Flamel or as Lockhart—and
      start to look genuinely angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, Harry, Harry," he said, sounding calm, though Harry knew
      he wasn't. "It's too bad I wasn't there. I could've set things
      straight. I don't suppose you could've got a letter out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Professor. Even if Dobby hadn't been stealing my letters,
      the Dursleys kept Hedwig locked in her cage all summer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. The classic mistake. A word of advice, Harry: if you ever
      need to get hold of someone in the magical world, you can usually
      send a letter through muggle post, and it'll go through. Even if
      you don't know their address, you can write 'Care of the Muggle
      Liaison Office, Ministry of Magic', and they're supposed to deliver
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry said in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, it's their job to help us all navigate the muggle
      world after all. That would be a good place to start…Or what about
      your little friend, Granger. She's a muggle-born, isn't she?
      Doesn't she have a telephone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smacked himself in the forehead.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry! Ron! Where <em class="calibre9">have</em> you been?" Hermione scolded
      them when they met her at the carriage stand. "We couldn't find you
      anywhere on the train. Fred and George said you were right behind
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The barrier sealed itself so we couldn't get through," Harry
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, Dad had to go get the Ministry and everything," Ron
      added. "Then, we came to Hogsmeade by Floo and hung out at the
      three broomsticks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why was the barrier sealed?" Hermione demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dunno. Harry even sent a note to Lockhart, and he came and
      asked us about it, but he didn't know either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You talked to Professor Lockhart?" Hermione said excitedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. I told him about Dobby, too," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's not too bad," Ron said. "Mind, I still think he's a git,
      but at least he's a smart git."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked scandalised. "Well, I should <em class="calibre9">hope</em> so,"
      she said. "Just look at what he's done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They argued good-naturedly until they got to the castle. The
      Sorting went by without incident, although the Sorting Hat sang a
      different song than last year. Ginny was the last to be Sorted,
      joining them at the Gryffindor Table where she sat next to a
      hyperactive muggle-born boy named Colin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore then introduced the Professors Lockhart. Harry was
      almost certain that Dumbledore knew their true identities, but he
      didn't show it. "Gilderoy" made a boastful, but mercifully short
      speech in which he blathered on about his accomplishments—and some
      about "Alaina's" as well—and how excited he was to start teaching
      the next generation of adventurers, and then, they were sent to
      bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A new history teacher," Hermione said. "That'll be interesting.
      Hopefully she'll be better than Professor Binns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's already got that," said Harry. "She's actually
      breathing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to mention easy on the eyes," Fred pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione scoffed at him: "Boys." But she didn't sound angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the end of the day, Harry was really glad he and Ron hadn't
      flown to Hogwarts in the car. Who knew <em class="calibre9">what</em> kind of
      trouble they would have got in if they had?</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
