<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 42 Nurmengard Interlude Ukraine, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 42: Nurmengard, Interlude, Ukraine</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">8:10 am, July 19th, 1993 (Kiev Time)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a small country villa outside of Kiev, Leonid Nikolayevich
      Smirnov twitched uncomfortably in the single person couch, his eyes
      jumped from furniture to furniture in the living room, and
      decidedly avoiding the direction of the fireplace. He swallowed
      down hard, regretting his decision to join the group of wizards who
      profited from selling Soviet Union's secret - an instant death
      might be easier than his current status, being the weakest and most
      dispensable member of the group, and assigned with the most
      dangerous task, which was to face the dangerous buyers, and to tell
      the secrets of powerful wizardry. Smirnov had no idea whether he
      would be tortured this time, or maybe either the buyers or the
      other wizards in the group might kill him afterwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov knew that ever since Soviet Union collapsed, every
      sensible country in the world, and a lot of intelligent
      self-aspiring wizards who wanted to walk the walks of great
      wizards, had tried their hands in this land. The United States had
      gotten the cream of the crop - they had directly recruited the best
      magical researchers, and two or three former Comrades (with a
      capital "C") were rumored to have been bought by the Americans. As
      for nations not as attractive as the United States, or individuals
      with deep pockets, buying secrets was a reasonable thing to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In most other countries, secrets of powerful wizardry were only
      known to powerful wizards. However, in the former Soviet Union,
      things had been a little different.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Long before the Great October Socialist Revolution in 1917,
      powerful Russian wizarding lords and ladies had a tradition to be
      heavily involved in Muggle politics. Lord Grigori Rasputin, the
      most powerful Russian wizarding lord at that time, had taken this
      tradition to an extreme: he had publically served as a healer and a
      top counselor in the Tsar's court, and had involved heavily with
      Muggle politics. Some of his advice, such as "don't go to war with
      Germany", was quite perceptive and sensible in hindsight; however,
      for the most part, he just enjoyed himself too much with alcohol
      and females (Muggles, witches, and magical creatures alike), gave
      irrational advice, and led the country into deeper and deeper
      disaster. Some magical historians had suspected that he was a true
      seer - after his attempts to prevent Russia from participating in
      World War I had failed, Lord Rasputin had foreseen the fall of the
      Romanov Dynasty and his own demise, and had thus lived every day as
      his last day on Earth. Lord Rasputin's acts had earned him
      well-deserved hatred from Muggle serfs to Muggle nobility, and from
      wizards to goblins. By the end of 1916, both Muggle aristocracy and
      other wizarding lords couldn't suffer him anymore, so they ganged
      up and assassinated him. It was said that before his assassination,
      Lord Rasputin had written to the Tsar, stating that in case he
      arrived at Serbia safely, then the Tsar had nothing to worry about;
      if he was killed by the commoners, the Romanov Dynasty might still
      have a few years; if he was killed by the nobles, then the Dynasty
      only had three months, and the Tsar's family had at most two years
      to live. The fates of the Romanovs soon proved Lord Rasputin's
      Prophecy, that after he was assassinated in December, 1916, the
      February Revolution in 1917 overthrew the Romanov Dynasty, and the
      Tsar's entire family were executed by the communists in July,
      1918.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Lord Rasputin's infamous example, the Comrades in Soviet
      Union chose to take a less conspicuous position in Muggle politics,
      yet they were still heavily involved in almost everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Comrade Mikhail Andreyevich Shakhov, the most powerful Russian
      wizard after Lord Rasputin, was an ardent believer of communism. As
      a contrast to Lord Rasputin, Comrade Mikhail Andreyevich (as he
      liked himself to be called) led an almost impeccable personal life
      - much more of a "saint" than "Father Grigori" ever was. Though
      Comrade Mikhail Andreyevich had wielded extraordinary power and
      influence in both the Muggle and wizarding Russian for more than
      sixty years, he lived an almost saintly life: mild, polite and
      modest toward his comrades, always helping out young wizards in
      need with his own money, only having an apartment in Moscow and a
      villa outside Moscow that was not much larger than the one Smirnov
      was currently in, and leaving behind a heritage less than a year's
      wage of a common worker when he passed away in 1982. Over the
      years, countless wizards had seen him and his wife joining the long
      lines in front of regular shops, waiting to buy food and supplies.
      According to the few times that Smirnov met Comrade Mikhail
      Andreyevich, Smirnov felt the aged wizard was quite sincere in his
      way. Not even his political enemies could accuse him of nepotism,
      avaricious, adultery, or even the most common sin for Russian
      males, alcoholism.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for Comrade Mikhail Andreyevich's political life, that was a
      complete other matter. He was known to be as ruthless as winter in
      Russian toward the "Enemies of Soviet Union" - be them White
      Russian Army, Trotskyists, Grindelwald's Army, or political
      dissidents. After killing and ousting powerful wizards and witches
      who supported the White Army, Comrade Mikhail Andreyevich had
      single-handedly restructured Russian wizarding society. One of the
      result was that the majority of the wizarding working population
      had become members of Cheka, which was the predecessor of KGB and
      GRU.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Many wizards in the Soviet Union admired the level of freedom
      wizards in other countries enjoyed, and resented Comrade Mikhail
      Andreyevich for this reason. However, being a member of the KGB had
      suited Smirnov just fine - he wasn't much of a wizard anyway, and
      he just loved the bureaucracy and paper-pushing in the much larger
      Muggle government.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov's talent in bureaucracy, officialese, flattery, and
      choosing the right side - instead of his weak magic and
      average-level intelligence - had promoted him fast on the ladders
      of the KGB. By 47 years old, Smirnov had made himself a colonel,
      and had a clearance level that ranked just below the Comrades with
      a capital "C". Though Smirnov could hardly actually practise or
      even understand most of the secrets he had access to, they still
      made him feel quite good about himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, there came the biggest blow in Smirnov's professional and
      personal life: the collapse of Soviet Union. Although Smirnov, like
      more than 70% of Russian people, had voted to keep the Soviet
      Union, the Muggle politicians and a few Comrades on the top of the
      ladder still managed to dismantle the largest country in the world
      against people's will.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In December 1991, for the first time, Smirnov realized how
      powerless he was without the protection of the system: one of Lord
      Isaac Yodov's students, a relatively powerful witch whom he used to
      boss around for various official trivialities, kicked him out from
      the newly founded Ministry of Magic without a word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With his savings going down fast in the hyperinflation that
      followed the collapse of Soviet Union, Smirnov really missed
      Comrade Mikhail Andreyevich: if the power Comrade hadn't died of
      old age in 1982, Soviet Union probably wouldn't have collapsed.
      According to rumors, Comrade Mikhail Andreyevich had helped the
      Muggle politicians in their effort to oust Khrushchev. Therefore,
      Comrade Mikhail Andreyevich might just oust Yeltsin, Gorbachev and
      their lot as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without any useful skills in the new world, Smirnov doubted
      whether he and his family could survive the winter in 1992.
      Therefore, when the group of wizards who sold top magical secrets
      of the great country to anyone with a deep pocket approached
      Smirnov, he didn't have much of a choice (and they wouldn't give
      him any). Smirnov had everything they desired: dispensable, easily
      manageable, weak in magic, three kids to be threatened with, and a
      suitable identity to convince the buyers the secrets were
      authentic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov sighed, and dearly hoped that the two wizards who
      claimed that they were from Canada wouldn't kill him afterwards; or
      if they try, the relatively powerful wizards in the group would
      promptly come and help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fireplace suddenly flared up, and two blurry figures wearing
      black robes walked out from the green flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As both of them walked toward the sofa, one of the figures spoke
      with a distorted sound: "Good morning, Mr. Smirnov. Let's begin by
      what you learned after you graduated Koldovstoretz Magical
      School."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Obviously, neither of those two even considered the courtesy as
      giving pseudonyms of themselves to a nobody such as Smirnov.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If the KGB school Smirnov attended after Koldovstroretz had
      forced him to learn one thing, that would be foreign languages -
      another reason why the group chose him to face the buyers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov swallowed, and nervously replied in English with some
      Russian accent, "My name is Leonid Nikolayevich Smirnov. After
      Koldovstroretz, I received two years of education in Shakhov
      Vocational School, which actually taught us wizards things about
      the KGB and GRU. After that, I joined the KGB. Ever since my
      graduation, I worked in the Administrative and Regulatory
      Department of the Twenty-third Chief Directorate - or, you can call
      it the Secretive Magical Chief Directorate. My main responsibility
      was on the regulatory authorizations of magical researches. I had a
      rank of colonel, with a Clearance Level 3."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I heard, every Russian wizard had to learn how to serve the
      Muggle government?" The figure on the left asked. Even the
      distortion charm he or she applied on his sound couldn't mask his
      incredulity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes." Smirnov swallowed. "We also had to swear to be loyal to
      Soviet Union, and never reveal its secrets. - No, we didn't take
      the Unbreakable Vow, because it was impossible to find enough
      wizards to sacrifice their magic to make the Vow stand for
      everyone. Comrade Mikhail Andreyevich, I mean, Comrade Mikhail
      Andreyevich Shakhov, had made a Hammer. The Hammer had similar
      functions to the Goblet of Fire, or maybe it was a little weaker.
      We just needed to write down our oath, and punch the parchment with
      the Hammer to make our oath stand. And, and, I can only release the
      secrets to you now, because -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov choked a bit as he said the next sentence: "Because
      Soviet Union doesn't exist anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although this probably wasn't the first time Smirnov had said
      it, he was still submerged by a wave of sadness. He missed the
      decent job, the generous salary, the government car, the decent
      apartment in Moscow, his villa outside Moscow, government-paid
      heating bills, the government-paid vacations to the beaches by
      Black Sea and to Yugoslavia, the privileges he had…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And what am I now? A foreigner in Kiev. Ukraine. Kiev, for
      the sake of Merlin, the Holy Lady, or whoever! Kievan Rus, the very
      place the Slavic people originated. Isn't this ridiculous?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, Smirnov did miss the Soviet Union, and it was not only for
      monetary reasons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, the two "Canadians" obviously didn't care much about
      Smirnov's sentiments. Their interest was completely on another
      matter: "You claim that Shakhov had made a Hammer, that is similar
      to the Goblet of Fire. Do you know how it is made? Do you know the
      secrets of it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov shook his head: "No, it was beyond my clearance level.
      Only the Comrades with a capital 'C' know that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm, interesting." The figure sitting on the left tapped his
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov almost screamed: "Don't torture me! You can use
      Legilimency on me, and look for it yourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't panic yet. Legilimency can wait for a while. Now go on."
      The figure on the left side demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What we learned from Koldovstroretz and Shakhov Vocational
      School was rather basic. There was nothing that was forbidden by
      the Interdict of Merlin. I have copies of my textbooks from Shakhov
      Vocational School here, you can take a look." Smirnov pointed to
      the stack of books beside him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The figure on the right summoned the books, and began to check
      them for any hostile magic. When he or she was done, these two
      figures began to flip through the books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The figure on the left exclaimed, "Ah, you Russians have
      measured the speed of travel by Floo, Apparition, and Portkey?
      Fascinating. And the travel time for all three methods is - what
      does it mean here?" The blurry figure pointed to something, and
      asked the figure on the right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The figure on the right explained to his partner in several
      double blurred sentences.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Doesn't every modern wizard already know about this? It is
      so simple that even I remember it, "t = a+d/c", where t is the time
      used, a is a method specific constant, d is the distance between
      two points, and c is the speed of light. Is the one on the left
      from Canada, or is he or she from a cave?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a while, Smirnov heard the left figure said: "Have the
      Russian magical researchers measured the speed of travel by
      phoenix?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov answered: "No, the only Russian witch who had a phoenix
      died in the war against Grindelwald, that was before our
      measurement instruments were accurate enough to do such
      measurements."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pity." The left one commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The right one asked: "Here, the textbook claimed that the
      absolute magic level of a wizard can be measured by the average
      random noise one induces while sleeping in a special room hooked
      with certain Muggle electronic devices. Can we get the design of
      the room and the electronic devices somewhere?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov hoped that this would bring him some bonus from the
      group, and answered: "I don't have the design at hand, but we can
      surely give you one, for a proper price. As for the Muggle devices
      and magical materials needed, we can get them for you as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The right one replied: "Good. Since you Russians have used
      Muggle electronics to measure the amount of magic in a wizard, have
      you figured out why magic interferes with Muggle electronics?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov finally heard a question that he knew from his work in
      KGB, and answered: "No, but some magical researchers have doubted
      that it was an artificial effect caused by some half-failed
      Interdict."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interdict? By who? What's the content of the Interdict?" The
      left one asked agitatedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The right one added: "What do you think you know, and how do you
      think you know it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov had a strange feeling about the right one's question. He
      had been trained to ask such questions in the KGB while
      interrogating suspects (though he had never actually interrogated
      anyone), and few wizards had asked such questions - not that he
      could remember much. He replied: "I learned the information from an
      internal seminar presented by one of our magical researchers, - I
      think he and his whole research group are in the United States now.
      He stated that extensive double-blind experiments had shown that
      the presence of strong magic in or around non-magical animals and
      Muggles had almost zero effect on any physiological parameters of
      the test subjects, or the sense orientation of non-magical
      migrational birds, magic most likely doesn't have any effect on the
      electrochemical reactions, signaling of neurons, and, err, and
      things like that. It seemed that magic only affects manmade - OK,
      as well as goblins and other magical beings made - electronics.
      This can hardly be anything natural. Their conclusion was that most
      likely some powerful wizard in the beginning of the Second
      Industrial Revolution imposed this effect onto the world. You know,
      the whole 'development of technology or magic can destroy the
      world' thing, quite popular with the old-fashioned Brits, I heard.
      Anyway, if that was the aim of the one who imposed this on the
      world, his or her work was probably partially botched, for the
      Muggles still developed very powerful electronics and nuclear
      weapons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sound Smirnov heard became double-blurred again. After a
      while, the one on the right asked: "Has anyone figured out a way to
      mitigate the effects of magic on electronics?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov answered: "Not to my knowledge. However, some have
      suspected that the effect is only limited to the Earth, or the
      surface of the Earth. I heard that according to some non-conclusive
      data, if they put some magical devices and some signal generating
      Muggle electronics together in a satellite, the signal received on
      the ground gets better as the satellite gets away from the ground.
      There are rumors that the Americans wanted to try this in their
      missions to the moon, but the first trial failed spectacularly,
      killing several astronauts, so neither they nor we have tried this
      with any manned mission - or any mission too important -
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." The left one exclaimed, but the sound soon became blurred
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov was never too keen on magic, but even he knew this meant
      that the Interdict of Merlin can be bypassed by going to the moon -
      that's what some magical researchers had claimed, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a while, the figure on the right asked another question:
      "What do you know about very intelligent magical creatures, such as
      veelas, goblins, acromantulas, etc.?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was another question that Smirnov knew the answer from his
      work in KGB. "A lot of our researchers thought they are human
      beings with inheritable curses. Or, at least, a group of
      researchers managed to transfigure a quintaped to a sapient man,
      very violent, though. You know, when powerful wizards can
      transfigure stones to the body of human beings, but the
      transfigured thing was never intelligent. Therefore, the man-eating
      quintapeds must be intelligent on their own accord, and the rumor
      that the reason they are like this was a curse is probably
      true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, there came another round of blurred sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next question came as: "Polyjuice potion, does it change the
      brain structure of the drinker to that of the person whose hair is
      used?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and other internal organs as well." Smirnov replied, but
      he quickly added, "Grindelwald's people did this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As one question lead to another, they finally asked Smirnov the
      ultimate question: "What is magic? Where does it come from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smirnov had no idea where magic had come from, but he had some
      answers to the first question: "Before Gorbachev cut down our
      research funding, one of our research groups claimed to have some
      preliminary data to show that magic might be, err, wave-particle
      duality, - that's the phrase in English, - just like light. They
      applied for funding to construct instruments to verify their
      theory, but their funding application was denied. Now, the whole
      group are in the United States."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After some prolonged blurred sound, Smirnov heard the familiar
      incantation: "Legilimens."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
