<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 45 Space Travel II,Possibilities, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 45: Space Travel Pt II, Possibilities</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">6:13 am, July 21st, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On and around Harry's desk in his trunk, stacks and stacks books
      on astronomy, astrophysics, history of space exploration, science
      fiction, and other related topics scattered all over the place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Harry copied down yet another equation that they might use
      later, he glanced at his mechanical watch, and wondered if this
      would be an acceptable time to wake everyone up. A bright ball of
      light appeared in front of Harry at this time. With the power of
      Severus' locket, there were only a limited number of people whose
      names were on a whitelist that could approach Harry with their
      Patronus, so this got to be something urgent. In Mad-Eye's raspy
      voice, the Patronus said: "Son, Lucius Malfoy requested an
      immediate meeting with you, stating that he thought of something
      rather important, and he refused to let me know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced down at his draft on the possible route to the
      Moon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Lucius can't guess out that we should go to the Moon, can
      he? No, shrewd as the ex-Lord Malfoy is, he is not sharp on this
      kind of stuff. Something about Grindelwald, then.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry replied: "Send him in, my headquarter office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Hopefully, this isn't something about how Grindelwald might
      also know a Prophecy. Err, since Hermione and I decided not to
      reveal our guess to the rest of them, especially, not to someone
      meets Grindelwald on a daily basis, so if Lucius has thought of the
      same thing, he has every reason to consider this an important
      secret that he should only tell me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Geez. However, I do have to listen to what Lucius has to
      say, just in case that he has thought of some other important
      matters.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reluctantly packed up his space travel plans, and sighed.
      Keeping so much secrets from almost everyone could be a burden,
      mentally, physically, and now, on his limited time budget as well.
      It was at these times, Harry understood why Dumbledore might appear
      to be a bit insane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry trudged up the stairs, and left his trunk. He quickly
      washed, changed, and Floo-ed to his headquarter office with the
      Auror trio that was protecting him. Once in his office, Harry
      worked on the fireplace a bit to allow Mad-Eye and Lucius to come
      through, and the two quickly entered from the green flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Mad-Eye was reluctantly applying protection and privacy
      charms around Harry and Lucius while excluding himself out, Harry
      sized up the blond who grew a special preference for the holding
      cell in DMLE ever since he guessed out that Grindelwald saw through
      their pretence of Dumbledore being around, and Voldemort might be
      among the guards. Harry couldn't help but to hold some distain upon
      the nobleman who cherished his own life so much, yet had
      cold-bloodedly killed at least seven others. However, since Lucius'
      mind was still useful now, and since he was Draco's father, Harry
      kept the feeling to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Mad-Eye was done with the spells, Lucius began in
      Parseltongue: "<em class="calibre8">Lord Potter, ass I thought of Grindelwald'ss
      behavior yessterday, hiss urgentnesss jumped up a bit after he ssaw
      the advanced Patronuss. Thiss indicatess it had ssomething to do
      with the Patronuss, posssibly the powerful life magic in it. And
      hiss biggesst ssecret, whatever it iss, should be death magic.
      Maybe, the advanced Patronuss can block or interrupt the ritual
      that made him invincible.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mouth slightly opened: <em class="calibre8">Ahh, that - that is another
      possibility, actually. And the chances aren't bad. This is indeed
      why we need a human expert on our side. On another thought, the
      true Patronus, plus Hermione's almost infinite vitality, should be
      able to block most death magic. Hmm, this is why I should always
      listen to my subordinates - they do come up with ideas that I have
      not thought of. I suppose, Lucius wouldn't dare to wake Voldemort
      up at 6 am, and tell him such important secrets.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry replied: "<em class="calibre8">Thiss iss a very good guesss indeed, Mr.
      Malfoy.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Harry's slight surprise, Lucius continued to reveal another
      important guess: "<em class="calibre8">And the Elder Wand, which iss alsso called
      the Death Sstick, might have gained itss name for a
      reason.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some human part of Harry instinctively wanted to reject the
      indication that the wand made by his ancestors could be used in
      something that evil, but the other parts of Harry knew better, so
      he kept his mouth closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius hissed: "<em class="calibre8">After I learned the Patronuss, Sseveruss had
      asked me a riddle, 'what cannot be killed?'At that time, it sseemed
      to me that the ansswer wass death. However, I don't really have the
      mental capacity to conquer death ass you and the Lady do.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a mental note to himself that he should tell Severus
      to be more discrete with important secrets with his best friend, no
      matter how much that black-haired man might want Lucius to live.
      And then, Harry's exceptional vivid imagination depicted a scene
      where he himself had to decide whether or not to reveal a secret to
      Hermione that could potentially save her life, and Harry found
      himself unable to withhold the information. Harry wasn't that sure
      whether he should lecture Severus anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">In a sense, Severus had been a very lonely man, just like I
      was before I met Hermione. The friendship from the Malfoys might be
      the best thing ever happened to him since, err, since my mother
      broke up with him. Moreover, Severus has saved Lucius a couple
      dozen times, which might also contribute to his protectiveness
      toward Lucius.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Harry remembered what happened when another man forced
      Severus to face the possibility of his best friend's death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt cold sweat running down his spines: <em class="calibre8">Thanks to
      Hermione, I am NOT Voldemort, and I will not become
      Voldemort.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' words continued without Harry's input: "<em class="calibre8">Lasst night,
      as I thought over it, I realized that people might think there iss
      another thing that could not be killed - ssomeone or ssomething
      between life and death, for example, a wizard without a pounding
      heart.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Harry got it. From the tale of <em class="calibre8">The Warlock's Hairy
      Heart</em>, a powerful wizard could survive without a pounding
      heart for quite a while. From what Antioch Peverell understood of
      life and death, someone without a heart yet still breathing and
      thinking could be considered "between life and death". Probably,
      Antioch took out his own heart, made it into the core of the Elder
      Wand. Considering himself incapable of being killed, Antioch used
      the Elder Wand to challenge Death, and failed - the killing curse
      could kill everything with a brain, not everything with a
      heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' guesses added another layer to the story: "<em class="calibre8">If the
      taless about the Peverell brotherss are true, then the brotherss
      musst have dessigned powerful magic to conquer Death. Probably, the
      wand with the core of a breathing human'ss heart can alsso be
      conssidered ass ssomething between life and death, and wieldss the
      power to transsform death magic into other typess of magic. In
      thiss way, Antioch Peverell could utilize the almosst infinite
      magic from Death, he also thought that he couldn't be killed by
      Death, and he tried.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh wait, Voldemort knew how to summon Death with a rope
      which has hanged a man and a sword which has slayed a woman. He
      might have gained this knowledge from Slytherin's pet snake, and
      Salazar might gain this knowledge from his ancestors, the Peverell
      brothers. It all fits.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry briefly imagined the sad scene that his powerful and
      brilliant ancestor made the Death Stick with his own heart, how he
      summoned Death himself, how he bravely dueled with the last enemy
      of any sapient being, and how his misconception about life and
      death became the fatal error in his plan. However, since Death
      didn't devour all human beings more than one thousand years ago,
      probably Antioch had sent Death back to wherever it belonged before
      he died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius stayed silent for a while, as if mourning for Antioch
      together with Harry, and then continued: "<em class="calibre8">Grindelwald might
      have ussed the Death Sstick to transsform the death magic produced
      by the killing of Muggless to hiss own magic, and hence made
      himsself invincible.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to admit, Lucius' deduction made a lot of sense.
      Actually, his deduction made too much sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Is this the advantage of having a genuinely dark wizard on
      our side? Or is it another incident with the "Protego
      Vitamaxima"?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">However, if this is Voldemort again, why did he tell us
      this? Learning to be nice?! No, this is way too nice.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">On the other hand, Lucius is indeed a human expert, and it
      is this man who came up with the original idea about the Elder Wand
      and the Malfoy's family wand before.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry searched the blond wizard's face, and found that Lucius
      looked at him in an expectant way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, right. I have promised him that I would negotiate a one
      hundred years deduction in prison sentence if he finds out what
      Grindelwald's secret is.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Don't tell me that Voldemort told Lucius the secret,
      because he wanted Lucius to have a shorter prison sentence. That is
      simply ridiculous!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ah, I know someone with this motive. Severus Snape. Severus
      might have left hints in Lucius' mind, memory charmed Lucius, and
      probably also memory charmed himself.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't quite know what to do with the black-haired wizard
      who was probably too loyal to his best friend by this point. Harry
      breathed in, and breathed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Mr. Malfoy, if everything you ssaid -"</em> Harry glanced
      at Lucius who was about to protest, and changed his sentence,
      "<em class="calibre8">If the gisst of thiss iss verified, I will hold my sside of
      the bargain.</em>"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
