<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 46 Space Travel III, Salazar, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 46: Space Travel Pt III, Lord Slytherin's Favorite Morning
      Radio</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">7:22 am, July 21st, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his new secret chamber in Hogwarts, tuned in for his favorite
      "radio channel (as the current wizards called it)" from "Harry
      Potter's" headquarter office, Lord Salazar Slytherin sat in a couch
      whose comfort level just didn't exist in his time, and enjoyed his
      breakfast: a roasted tomato, baked potatoes, and fried eggs.
      Salazar found the novel food items, - such as tomatoes and
      potatoes, which were unknown to the Europeans back in his time, -
      quite pleasant to eat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again, Salazar felt that locking himself up in the Mirror was
      the best decision he had ever made. Of course, Salazar didn't just
      mean the food and furniture, he was primarily referring to the
      powerful magic he learnt in this new era - for example, the one
      that "Harry Potter" was currently telling the unicorn girl what
      Lucius revealed to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Salazar was dissatisfied by Lucius' failure in Draco's
      linguistic education, he did have to credit Lucius for his
      intuition and human skills for figuring out the hypothesis that the
      improved Patronus could interrupt the death magic that had once
      made Grindelwald invincible. However, the need for a magical item
      that transcended life and death as an intermediary was definitely
      not Lucius' original idea. Salazar was quite sure of that, because,
      well, he himself was the one who actually thought of it during the
      so-called "brainstorm" with Severus last night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After guessing out this important secret, Salazar wanted to test
      whether it was true as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, Salazar
      didn't have any wand that was made of the heart of a human being at
      hand, but he knew where to get one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To be honest, it was a bit embarrassing for Salazar to
      temporarily borrow a gift that he gave to his descendants without
      notifying the rightful owner, especially, when another descendant -
      who also happened to be the owner's godfather - was watching.
      Salazar had to hiss to Severus to promise that he would return the
      wand to little Draco the moment he was done, so that Severus would
      stop looking at him in that way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy-Who-Lived had kept two dementors in Hogwarts as a
      Voldemort killer, so these unpleasant creatures became safe and
      convenient lesser substitutes for Death himself. Salazar and
      Severus slipped into the room where the dementors were guarded by
      two Auror trio, and Salazar knocked down all the Aurors in one
      blow. Salazar grabbed one of the cages containing the dementors,
      and Apparated back to his new secret chamber together with
      Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With Severus getting ready to block the dementor anytime if
      things went wrong, Salazar tried to give the dementor mental
      commands. After a number of failures, Salazar observed a horrified
      magical twitch from the dementor when he was determined that he
      would protect the world from being destructed by the Muggles, as if
      the shadow of death was trying to refuse this possibility. Salazar
      thought for a while, and then tricked his mind into another
      mentality: <em class="calibre8">Shadow of Death, you know the advanced Patronus can
      banish you, so help yourself by lending me some of your power, or
      you won't exist.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar did feel a bit of death magic the dementor was
      reluctantly streaming toward his way then. However, even if Salazar
      knew he could transform the death magic into neutral magic with
      Armand's heart, still fresh and sort of "alive" after so many
      years, contacting such dirty magic was still highly
      uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar signaled to Severus to let him use his Patronus to block
      the dementor for a while, so that Salazar would be able to think.
      With Severus' bright ball of Patronus, the death magic the poor
      shadow of Death was still streaming toward Salazar was blocked.
      Severus seemed to be uncomfortable upon the contact, while the
      empty cloak representing death rolled and twisted painfully in the
      air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ah, the stream of death magic can be blocked by our version
      of improved Patronus. Therefore, the better Patronus wielded by my
      crazy descendant and the unicorn girl must be more powerful toward
      this kind of magical streaming.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar thought for a while, then signaled Severus to stop.
      Salazar pointed the Malfoy family wand toward the death magic
      stream, and willed it to absorb the death magic. Salazar felt death
      magic entering the wand, and the wand - or Armand's heart -
      screamed that it resented the dirty magic. Salazar waved the wand
      to cast "Lumos". A bright light ball larger than the head of a
      troll rushed out of the wand, and Severus quickly dodge away from
      the should-be-faint light ball dashing like a cannon shell. The
      light ball smashed into the opposite wall, and several pieces of
      shattered stone slabs flew out from the surface of the magically
      reinforced solid stone wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus asked in disbelief: "<em class="calibre8">Iss that a Lumoss?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar mentally willed the dementor to stop, and looked down at
      the wand in amazement, and, err -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' eyes also turned to the Malfoy family wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Salazar's great embarrassment, the oak wand carefully
      maintained by generations of Malfoys over the past one thousand
      years had developed quite some visible cracks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Damn it! Oak is for life and affinity to magic, while yew
      is the proper container for death.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar quickly examined the core of the wand, and found that
      Armand's heart was luckily unhurt. Realizing Severus also noticed
      the cracks, Salazar hissed awkwardly: "<em class="calibre8">I am an exceptional wand
      maker. Shall repair and improve it before returning it to little
      Draco. Wrong type of wood. I shall not usse it again.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus paused for a while, and then commented: "<em class="calibre8">Impresssive
      magic.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Salazar was busy repairing and improving the Malfoy family
      wand with magic that he invented after he made this particular
      wand, he started to wonder if he had been too soft to his
      descendants.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">I have probably told Severus too much, and Draco may later
      discover that the wand becomes better. Maybe the Stone can't fix
      softness caused by old age.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sso, iss thiss the ssecret?</em>" Severus examined the
      wall, asking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar was glad that Severus was clever enough to omit the
      awkward part of tonight's experiment, so he explained to the
      descendant whom he was determined to memory charm soon:
      "<em class="calibre8">Probably the German guy ussed a different mentality, making a
      deal with Death through a life eater or ssomething like that,
      while</em> I <em class="calibre8">threatened it.</em> <em class="calibre8">I ssupposse, having a
      trade can render the magic flow more controllable, while my method
      would drain a dirty creature out of exisstence in sseveral
      minutess. I need to work on the detailss of thiss for a while, in
      casse I need a power boosst for a short period ssometime
      later.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Salazar properly managed the dementor and the Auror trios,
      he and Severus turned the Time-Turner twice and sneaked toward
      Draco's bed chamber. All this time, Severus seemed to be in some
      sort of emotional conflict.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What?</em>" Salazar asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus reluctantly answered, "<em class="calibre8">The Boy-Who-Lived hass
      promissed to reduce Luciuss' prison time by one hundred yearss, in
      casse Lucius figuress out the ssecret. I know Luciuss deservess
      every minute of hiss ssentence, but -</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You want to tell Luciuss thiss ssecret?</em>" Salazar asked
      in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was quite embarrassed, "<em class="calibre8">I -</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar sighed inwardly: <em class="calibre8">I do hope my descendants are
      friendly toward each other, but this is too much. Did Lucius treat
      his bastard brother so well, that after Severus brought Lucius back
      from death, Severus still feels that he needs to get a shorter
      prison sentence for Lucius? Although I think Lucius should be
      rewarded, instead of being locked up for killing Muggle-lovers,
      this -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar then realized three things that he needed to do:
      <em class="calibre8">First, I need to get a heart willingly taken out from someone's
      chest; second, I'd better undermine Severus and Lucius' loyalty to
      the so-called "Boy-Who-Lived", so that they won't stick to this
      crazy descendant after I reveal the truth to them; and third, I
      have to test and see if this crazy descendant would try to make a
      deal with Death, and I shall kill him the instance he prepares the
      ritual.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Hmm, I should put something on the Death Stick, so that I
      shall be notified if it absorbs any death magic.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-No, to be safe. I should link the Death Stick to my set of
      triggers on the Mirror, so that once my crazy descendant tries to
      sacrifice a lot of lives, and to transform death magic to other
      types of magic with it, all Riddles would be locked up in the
      Mirror.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Yes, this would be Riddle's first and possibly only test.
      If the younger Riddle - or anyone else, for that matter - decides
      to kill a lot of Muggles to gain infinite power, according to what
      Severus explained to me several times, and what I now conjecture,
      may lead to Muggles to use the ritual weapon. Therefore, I should
      modify the trigger on the Mirror, so that if any wielder of the
      Death Stick tries to make a deal with Death, they would be locked
      in Time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, another idea came to Salazar: <em class="calibre8">As a matter of fact,
      since the younger Riddle already incorporated the Shadow of Death a
      part of the set of triggers to lock himself up (with my help, of
      course), by threatening them, I should further threaten the
      dementors, so that if anyone tries to make a deal with Death by
      mass sacrifice - not only restricted to the use of the Death Stick
      - he or she would be locked up in Time. Hmm, this magic would take
      me a few days to perfect, but it is definitely doable.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Alright, let'ss go to the sso-called Ministry of Magic
      after returning the wand to little Draco, and talk to
      Luciuss.</em>" Salazar hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' eyes opened wide in amazement and gratefulness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With Severus leading the way, Salazar breaking the sham of
      magical wards in the Ministry of Magic like a breath (with a few
      exceptions in DMLE, which took Salazar a few minutes), they sneaked
      into the temporary holding cell in no time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After stunning Lucius - in case the blond made some unwise moves
      - Salazar woke him up. Lucius seemed to be first confused and
      horrified by the situation, but after Salazar removed his previous
      memory charm, realization began to show on Lucius' face. All of a
      sudden, Lucius shot Severus a grateful look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar didn't want to pander on the question that how much the
      blond had guessed out. He cursed his softness again, and asked with
      a straight face: "<em class="calibre8">Luciuss, what do you think of the matterss of
      yessterday?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar knew Severus was mouthing "speak truth" behind his back.
      Since this would help with their conversation, Salazar ignored
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius then revealed what he thought of before he fell asleep,
      that Grindelwald's eagerness jumped up after he saw the Granger
      girl's Patronus, and the ritual might be tempered with the powerful
      life magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Salazar's amazement, what Lucius got from reading Grindelwald
      was quite accurate, while Severus and Salazar himself only got this
      point from experiments with a dementor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Good boy, Lucius. Grandpa Salazar shall reward you for
      this.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar pulled out a newly made hat from his pouch, and put the
      hat on his head. Salazar could feel the excitement and happiness
      flowing out of the wizard behind him the moment he took out the
      hat, and Salazar annoyingly admitted that he was spoiling his
      descendants again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar sighed inwardly, put the hat and a gold coin on the
      ground, and casted "Avada Kedavra" toward the hat. A few
      incantations later, Lucius became much harder to kill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Salazar packed the hat and the gold coin up, he allowed
      Severus to explain the situation to Lucius. Of course, Salazar
      interrupted at the last part, and only revealed the proper segments
      of the secret to Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Salazar's delight and slight embarrassment, Lucius proved
      that he was much sharper in human stuff than Severus was. The blond
      took in a breath, and said: "<em class="calibre8">Lord Sslytherin, there iss no word
      that can expresss my gratitude. If there iss anything that I can do
      for you, pleasse do assk. For example, I ssupposse, a new wand
      might prove handy for the tassk? It would be my great honor, if my
      heart can be ussed for thiss great purposse.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, Lucius is clever. I didn't insinuate that oak was not
      proper for the ritual, nor did I mention that I broke and repaired
      Malfoy family wand in my experiment. Hmm, I suppose Lucius wants to
      make sure that Draco always has the Malfoy family wand at hand, so
      he proposed that I should make a new one with his heart. And he
      probably also wants me to feel guilty.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The irritating part of the matter was, although Salazar had made
      sure that Lucius couldn't be killed by something such as losing a
      heart, one of his initial aims to be here was to obtain Lucius'
      heart, and he knew exactly what game Lucius was playing, Salazar
      still felt a bit of guilt toward this sneaky descendant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Wha-</em> "Severus hissed in horror, and then quickly said,
      "<em class="calibre8">Ssalazar, you have made me a horcrux ass well, sso I
      -</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Salazar did predict that Lucius had the highest
      probability of getting maimed or killed by either Grindelwald or
      one of the Tom Riddles, he couldn't rule out the possibility that
      either Severus or himself would be in a better position to undergo
      the unpleasant process of handing out the heart before Lucius did,
      so he said: "<em class="calibre8">Nah, don't fight for thiss now, whichever of the
      three of uss here needss the usse of the Sstone for other reasons
      firsst winss. And now, Luciuss, I shall memory-charm you, sso that
      you would reveal certain ssecretss to the Boy-Who-Lived, and ssee
      if he keepss hiss promisse.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And to see how "Harry Potter" treats the friendship between
      his subordinates.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few hours later, Salazar was in his new secret chamber,
      listening to the younger Riddle's moral dilemma.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The "boy" said: "Hermione, I need to tell you more about what I
      think happened with Lucius, before I can tell you what occurred to
      me around 3 am this morning, so that you won't be overwhelmed by my
      grand plan. I think the 'Patronus can interrupt the death ritual'
      part is probably Lucius' original idea. Actually, it is quite
      obvious in retrospect, and Lucius is an expert in reading human.
      However, I suspect that Severus told Lucius the second part, or at
      least he gave Lucius hints on it, then he memory-charmed both of
      them, so that Lucius can get a reduction in prison sentence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The self-righteous unicorn girl replied with some moral
      nonsense, just as Salazar expected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young Riddle sighed: "Hermione, the problem is, we don't
      have any evidence, and Lucius did figure out the similarity between
      the Malfoy family wand and the Elder wand himself, so my guess
      isn't really well grounded. I would only assign it with at most
      seventy percent probability. And OK, Hermione, you can scream to me
      now, for I - , err, maybe I have read too much books with the high
      level villains giving orders to their subordinates in elusive ways,
      and while dealing with Lucius, I subconsciously lead myself into
      it. Well, when I talked to Lucius about his mission to weasel out
      Grindelwald's biggest secret, I asked Lucius to 'by any means that
      neither endangers the world, nor carries a prison sentence more
      than two years, figure out why Grindelwald had been invincible'.
      Back then, I was thinking on bribery, Confundus, or some other
      minor infringements of law. Therefore, even if my guess is correct,
      Lucius has figured it out by being friends with Severus - which is
      entirely legal - I am still responsible for getting him an
      one-hundred-year deduction in prison sentence. And by the way, I
      have also promised Lucius that in case he figures out Grindelwald's
      secret, I will not allow anyone to charge him with any other past
      crimes that didn't involve the death or permanent mental damage to
      sapient beings. Yeah, I am trapped by my own words this time. I
      should have realized that someone like Lucius Malfoy will
      definitely abuse any loopholes, and next time, I would be more
      careful with my promises with anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the self-righteous half-unicorn uttered more nonsense,
      Salazar thought: <em class="calibre8">What? The younger Riddle does feel obliged to
      keep his words?! Hmm, judging from Severus' and Lucius' first
      interactions with me, I thought Tom Riddle was entirely unworthy of
      a leader of any kind. Is the younger Riddle acting this way,
      because he thinks this fits his current mask? This is madness
      beyond my imagination.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The younger Riddle accepted the Granger girl's critic, and said:
      "My major concern is, how should I treat the friendship between
      Severus and the Malfoys? Whether Severus is innocent in this
      incident or not, he probably did give the riddle containing the
      secret of the true Patronus to Lucius. I realize that Severus is
      probably more loyal to the Malfoys than to me, and he probably has
      some problems with withholding information from people he really
      likes. I suppose, from a human perspective, there is nothing wrong
      with holding your friends and godson in a higher position than the
      leader you serve because, err, because you don't want the world to
      be destroyed by the leader, I guess. And since I have never
      announced any rules, nor has Severus ever formally sworn loyalty, I
      can hardly call it betrayal even if Severus did leave some hints to
      Lucius. Hermione, when I made up a hypothetical scene in my head,
      that by not telling you some secret, you are, say, ten percent more
      likely to die, I would probably tell you some hints about the
      secret even if I know the secret might be dangerous. And in another
      entirely hypothetical scene, - Hermione, I know you would never do
      what Lucius did - say, you are found guilty for, err, causing
      severe head injuries to innocent bystanders in an unavoidable
      situation, I would definitely cheat the system in order to get you
      out of jail sooner. Hermione, I know this might be unfair to you,
      but you are the reason that I am not You-Know-Who, and we both know
      You-Know-Who's decision to dismiss Severus' request for Lily's life
      to be spared had lead to, could you tell me what should I do with
      Severus and Lucius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ha, tossing your hard decision to your subordinates? What a
      sham! Godric never did this. However, what does "you are the reason
      that I am not You-Know-Who" mean? Does this horcrux of Tom Riddle
      really think that he is an independant character? Did Tom Riddle
      make some original discoveries with horcrux that he didn't tell
      Nagini? Could he really cut off only pieces of his character from
      himself as some religious mudbloods suggested, that making horcrux
      was splitting your soul, and you could cut some characters off from
      yourself?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar remembered that Severus once said Tom Riddle grew up in
      a Muggle Catholic orphanage, therefore Tom Riddle did know Muggle
      religion, and he could very well shape his inventions according to
      some ideas he learnt when he was young.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Salazar began to wonder what would happen if this
      younger Riddle did contain most of the "good" characters of the
      original Tom Riddle (which the original one clearly didn't have
      much), the unicorn girl finished her hesitation, and said: "I am OK
      with the fact that Lucius and Severus are friends. And since you
      said you probably would do the same things for me, I guess I
      shouldn't raise my moral bar too high for Severus. Telling Lucius
      the riddle on the true Patronus might be acceptable. However, if
      your guess is right, this means Severus' moral standards aren't
      that high. Severus Snape joined the Death Eaters when he knew they
      were evil, and I am sorry Harry, he only abandoned his cause
      because the life of the woman he loved was threatened. He might
      have changed during the years he served Dumbledore, but he left us
      the first instance he thought Lily's death was revenged, to seek
      power of his own - not that there is anything wrong with it, you
      even encouraged him to do so. I don't want to raise the moral bar
      too high, but on the other hand, Mad-Eye stayed, - even after he
      regained his youth and his leg. Mad-Eye probably has never thought
      of resuming his dream to become a top wizard, he just stayed and
      protected us and the Stone. And I know, with the Russian textbooks
      and secrets, both of us agree that Severus is probably more useful
      than Mad-Eye. If Severus did leave hints to Malfoy, then Mad-Eye is
      definitely more trustworthy than Severus. Mad-Eye serves you
      because he is doing the right thing, while as you said, Severus
      serves you because he doesn't want the world to be destroyed. I
      don't mean that Severus is serving you for a <em class="calibre8">wrong</em> reason,
      but his reason isn't as <em class="calibre8">right</em> as Mad-Eye's, neither are
      his moral standards. Therefore, my suggestion is, first, let's try
      to find out what indeed happened. If that isn't possible, well,
      although due procedures call for us to assume that people are
      innocent unless proven guilty, we do need to observe Severus and
      Lucius more closely. As for Malfoy's prison sentence, let's defer
      the decision until we know what happened, or after we know it is
      impossible to know the answer, or, at least, after we know whether
      they are the true secrets of Grindelwald's invincibility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar almost seethed in fire: <em class="calibre8">To "know it is impossible to
      know the answer"? You can use this excuse to defer it forever. What
      a detestable power-hungry mudblood bitch! You know the world is
      safe only when all Riddles are locked in Time, while you and Draco
      are assigned to be in charge. If Draco is going to hold you
      responsible for the younger Riddle's words to get Lucius the
      reduction in prison sentence, you may use the younger Riddle's
      guess today as an excuse to drive Draco out of power! And, is this
      why the younger Riddle ask this self-righteous Mudblood
      half-unicorn? So he has an excuse not to give Lucius his
      commutation? Or that he</em> wants <em class="calibre8">the Mudblood to have a
      weapon to deprive Draco of his power and/or his Father? Probably,
      this younger Riddle isn't the embodiment of the good characters of
      the original Riddle after all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The younger Riddle hesitated for a while, and then said:
      "Hermione, yeah, you are right in a way. We do need to try out
      Lucius' ideas, and try to figure out what indeed happened, before
      deciding anything. I don't assume Grindelwald has left a written
      instruction manual lying anywhere, so we need to figure out the
      details ourselves. By 'ourselves', I mean Severus, Mad-Eye, you,
      and I. Unfortunately, Severus and Mad-Eye have quite a long list of
      things to figure out now. Moreover, I will have more urgent matters
      that would occupy their time very soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Hmm, deferring difficult decisions. I guess he is just
      pretending to be good.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, still on the current matter. From what might or might not
      happen yesterday, I notice that there is some severe problems with
      our current organization. First, our organization doesn't have any
      formal rules besides 'don't destroy the world' and 'obey Harry
      Potter', so that everyone is running on the rules of their own.
      This seems to be the general condition for most wizarding groups,
      but you and I should know better. And I suppose, Mad-Eye's rules
      are quite different from that of Severus', and that may be one of
      the reasons why they fight so much. Hermione, you and I need to
      make up some rules. Since Lucius is so good at abusing any
      loopholes, Draco and Lucius should be the ones to examine the rules
      for loopholes, and I can hold them responsible if anyone abuses the
      rules in ways that they should have thought of; Mad-Eye is good at
      security stuff, so he should be the one to safety-check everything;
      you should check on the moral stuff; and I should check the sanity
      of the rules."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar listened to Harry's analysis of his organization, and
      found it quite reasonable. Lord Slytherin had lead wars against
      enemies many times, but he had never quite thought the
      organizational stuff as thoroughly as this younger Riddle did.
      Abusing the loopholes by subordinates? Sure. Salazar clearly
      remembered what an expert Armand was at this - even better than
      Salazar himself. However, Salazar had never thought of letting
      Armand criticing all the possible loopholes of the rules to be
      made.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued: "Moreover, we are in severe shortage of
      manpower - we rely on Severus and Mad-Eye on almost anything of
      real importance. I know we can trust Professor McGonagall's
      integrity, but since she is not a perfect Occlumens, so I can't
      tell her much of anything. The same goes for Professor Lupin.
      Kingsley Shacklebolt is a perfect Occlumens, but we don't know him
      much beyond Mad-Eye's words, and his current job to protect the
      Muggle Prime Minister is of vital importance as well. Besides them,
      the Order of Phoenix doesn't have any competent and clear-thinking
      wizards. I mean, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley are relatively powerful, but
      they are more like, you know, Ron, instead of the twins. Mrs.
      Malfoy and the Tonks are potential allies, but none of them is a
      perfect Occlumens, either. In the long run, we need to set up a
      training program, probably lead by Severus and Mad-Eye, so that we
      can train our people to be perfect Occlumens, while I can teach
      them on the rationality stuff, and you on the morality rules. More
      importantly, in the rules that we are about to make, we need to
      include how to recruit new blood into the Order of Phoenix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar found that he had never thought methods to train and
      recruit new bloods as thoroughly as the younger Riddle did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Riddle's previous organization, the Death Eaters, was not
      organized any better than what Godric and I did back in the old
      days. How come that this younger Riddle has so many better ideas?
      Oh, of course, Comrade Shakhov had gotten some thirty thousand
      wizards working for the same Muggle government organization , and
      it didn't collapse until nine years after his death, which
      performed much better than the Death Eaters did after the older
      Riddle disappeared for the first time. Shakhov might have left some
      hints on how he ruled Russian wizards in the textbooks. I haven't
      finished reading the textbooks yet, there are too many new concepts
      there. Severus is reading that stuff faster than I do, and I
      constantly need him to explain things to me. Hmm.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Moreover, by "rules", does the younger Riddle mean the oath
      that you throw into the Goblet of Fire, or hit with the Hammer? It
      surely sounds like it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar decided that he needed to read the Russian textbooks
      faster, and to gain access to either the Goblet of Fire or the
      Hammer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Salazar began to wonder whether the Hammer was still in
      Moscow, the younger Riddle changed the topic, and revealed a great
      idea that almost made Salazar jumping from the couch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Going to the Moon, so that you can bypass the Interdict of
      Merlin?! I shall definitely help with this cause.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the Boy-Who-Lived continued to reveal another great idea:
      "As for the origin of magic, Grindelwald has indicated it might
      have something about the Mirror and the Stone. I formulated some
      guesses on this subject this morning. Muggles and wizards alike
      have pretty much searched the entire planet, but nobody has ever
      found any ruins of a civilization that is greater than ours.
      However, there is the Mirror and the Stone, both are definitely way
      beyond Merlin's power. After I thought of the Moon idea, I just
      began to wonder if the Mirror and the Stone were from an alien
      civilization, that was millions or even billions of light years
      away from us, or even from another Universe. And when that
      civilization collapsed, the makers of the Mirror sent the Mirror
      and the Stone toward the stars, and they somehow landed on Earth
      many years ago. Since there are wizarding folks in almost every
      race, and legends from every civilization talked about lost
      civilization, I suppose they landed before homo sapiens left
      Africa. Well, since there are both magical plants and magical
      animals, they might arrived when all lives on Earth were single
      cells, and the Mirror and/or the Stone managed to 'tell' the story
      of a lost civilization to human beings afterwards. And there is
      also the possibility that our Earth is not the only planet where
      the Atlanteans left messages, and there might be other Mirrors and
      Stones on other planets - or still drifting in the Universe. Or
      maybe, the Atlanteans left other forms of messages somewhere -
      leaving everything to a single Mirror or a single form of messenger
      was way too risky. Therefore, by developing magic that can send us
      to the space, to explore other planets, suns, and galaxies, we
      might collect more relics, and know more about the Atlantis in
      general."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Oh, this is such a wonderful idea. I shall spare the
      younger Riddle's life just for this contribution to all wizarding
      kind.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Ah, wait, there is a test that I can run along the way.
      Hmm, I need to plant some hints in Severus' head now.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
