<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 47 Space Trave IV, Phoenix, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 47: Space Travel Pt IV, Biases of the Phoenix</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">9:48 am, July 21st, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have already asked Fawkes, and he has agreed to take this
      mission - thank Atlantis, Fawkes wasn't locked up in Time together
      with Headmaster Dumbledore." Harry petted the bird of fire perching
      on the armrest of his couch, and said to wide-eyed Draco, Severus,
      and Mad-Eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus slowly nodded: "I will go to Kazakhstan, then.
      Hopefully, Baikonur Cosmodrome is as badly managed as the rest of
      the former Soviet Union is. More importantly, I think I should be
      the one to go up to the Moon, instead of Miss Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, this is indeed a proposal that is entirely in
      character with Severus, self-sacrifice, and things like that. But,
      how should I phrase "I don't trust you enough for this
      mission"?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry could respond, Hermione said: "Professor Snape, as
      you already know, I am quite hard to kill, and I am probably
      blessed with a lot of luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Miss Granger, we can't risk your life. Grindelwald and
      other top wizards in the world may not attack you, and a lot of
      them would even go as far as to personally protect you from harm,
      for they do not want the world to end by the retribution from the
      Universe. However, I am afraid that the vacuum, extreme
      temperature, meteoroids, and other things up there may not be as
      reasonable as the top wizards." Severus rebutted reasonably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye also spoke up: "I agree with Severus on this. It is way
      too risky to let the lass go up there. However, I think I should be
      the one." He gave Severus and Draco a pointed look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed that Severus wanted to scoff, but that black-haired
      man checked his tongue as he had previously promised Harry that he
      would. Severus said instead: "I think there is a rather practical
      reason for me to go: I can understand or semi-understand written
      materials in fourteen different languages. I know this number is
      quite unimpressive when comparing to the records of the top wizards
      in the world, or even that of Crouch Sr., but this is the largest
      number among us. I think Minerva knows seven or eight, and how many
      do you know?" Severus politely glanced at Mad-Eye, as if it was an
      entirely innocent question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye sent Severus an embarrassed and angry look, but he
      checked his tongue, and mumbled: "Four."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry remembered some of the notes he got from Albus and the
      Line of Merlin Unbroken. Those notes seemed like complete gibberish
      and doodlings to him. He couldn't even tell if the notes were
      written in English, Latin, Greek, Hebrew, or whatever languages -
      although Harry knew the letters of some of the possible languages
      looked quite different from that of English or Latin, he literally
      couldn't tell the difference from the notes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">This is a very reasonable concern. We can't pre-select what
      notes to send up, so many of them might be written in languages
      that Hermione can't understand. If this can bypass the Interdict of
      Merlin, eventually, we have to send someone else up. For all I
      know, a lot of languages use Latin or Cyrillic alphabet, and it
      would be hard for someone without proper knowledge to tell the
      difference. Geez, I've heard that the current top wizards all speak
      hundreds of languages, do they even have time for anything else? Is
      this the reason that the development of magical society is so slow?
      Is it because all the clever people spend most of their time
      studying languages?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wondered if he could trust Severus on such a mission, and
      he needed to buy some time before he figured out what to say.
      Therefore, Harry said instead: "Professor Snape, you must have
      realized, err, it is very dangerous up there, and, err -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">For the sake of Atlantis, how should I properly phrase "you
      can't tell your best friend what you find up there, even if his
      brain depends on it"?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Mr. Potter. The consecutive disasters with the
      Apollo 1 and the Soyuz 1 are considered to be the reason why
      neither the Soviets nor the Americans tried to send any wizards up
      to the space again. I suppose, it is much better to be the third
      wizard to die in a space mission than to die by the hands of
      You-Know-Who." Severus replied with a white face and a straight
      back, as if he was going to die the next moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to admit that Severus had his points. Harry suppose,
      getting killed by Voldemort would be a long and painful process,
      while death in a failed space mission would be much quicker, and it
      would involve much less pain. Moreover, to sacrifice your life in
      the mission to explore the Universe indeed carried much more
      meaning for the entire human race than getting yourself killed in
      some pathetic war among wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did a quick mental re-check on the information he just
      glanced over this morning: <em class="calibre8">The failure of Soyuz 1 mission in
      April, 1967 sounded really like a series of electronic malfunctions
      caused by magic: the solar panel failed first, the orientation
      detectors followed, then stabilization system was gone, the
      parachute didn't unfold, and finally, the reserved parachute got
      entangled. As for how the Apollo 1 failed, err, I need to look it
      up.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-However, Severus probably has some misconceptions about the
      danger involved in space traveling. Well, according to information
      available to Severus, the two previous trials to send wizards up to
      the space both failed with disastrous results, so he expects
      himself to die as well. What he hasn't realized is that, in this
      mission, we do not rely on Muggle electronics, so it is much
      safer...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's head turned quickly toward the large window in
      Harry's office first, and then followed by Mad-Eye's magical
      eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the f-" The old Auror murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The unfinished F-word from Mad-Eye pretty much expressed the
      same feeling Harry was experiencing, because he saw some red-golden
      fire appeared besides the sun, and it was dashing toward the
      window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">A phoenix?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired man also seemed to be stunned by this
      unexpected development. He stood there like a statue for a whole
      second, before he dashed toward the window to remove the
      anti-phoenix charms placed there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ahh, the phoenix doesn't want to take Severus to the Moon
      immediately, does it? For that would mean instant death for
      sure.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wanted to warn Severus, but he couldn't, for the same
      reason that Albus Dumbledore couldn't tell Harry before he made the
      decision to refuse his phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus opened the window, and gazed at coming fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The golden phoenix entered, letting out a piercing cry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">COME!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bird of light and fire said, and everyone in the room
      understood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired man stared at his phoenix, opened his mouth,
      and closed it again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry dearly hoped that the bird wouldn't fly away when it heard
      some completely reasonable statement such as "I need to get a
      spacesuit and a space capsule first".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus took in a deep breath, and said: "Let's go to Baikonur
      Cosmodrome and get start with the preparation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix grabbed Severus' shoulder, and they both disappeared
      in flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All parts of Harry was screaming: <em class="calibre8">What? That's unfair! I
      only asked my phoenix to wait for six months, and it left! Did I
      just need to say that "let's get a preparation that may last six
      month going" to retain my bird?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And by the way, why was there no bird coming to Hermione
      before she went to Azkaban? I didn't even tell her that she had a
      horcrux back then! Is it just because she knew she had unicorn
      blood in her, and she was less likely to die? Or is it because I
      turned down my bird for the same mission? Is there a one phoenix
      per mission thing?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Judging from Hermione's expression, she was probably thinking
      along the same line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the semi-interposed space of Lady Rowena Ravenclaw's chamber,
      amongst mountains and mountains of trash, at the back of the Mirror
      of Noitlov, Lord Salazar Slytherin had a wide grin on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Yes, phoenixes are indeed from the Mirror. And as for my
      two guesses - one, the Atlanteans have a preference for people to
      explore other stars; or two, you have to believe you have a more
      than seventy-five percent of chances to die - either one of them,
      or both of them, must be true. Too bad that I can't test these two
      separately this time.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
