<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 50 Space Travel 7, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 50: Space Travel Pt VII, Domestic Problems</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">1:13 pm, July 24th, 1993 (London time)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a very wide smile as he emerged in Stella's phoenix
      flames together with Hermione and Severus in his headquarter
      office. He had just had the greatest book raid ever - Severus had
      just led them for a tour to the British Library. With the help of
      Severus, Mad-Eye, three Auror trios, a number of bewitched Muggle
      librarians, and several duplicated Stones, they now had an extended
      library with approximately eight hundred thousand books on
      mathematics, physics, chemistry, material science, biology,
      medicine, engineering, psychology, history, linguistics, and
      archeology, among other fields. According to Severus' and Mad-Eye's
      estimates, the duplicated Stone could at least stabilize the
      duplicated non-magical books for a couple dozen years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the past five hours, the adult wizards duplicated shelves
      and shelves of books, while Harry and Hermione were responsible for
      pointing out which subject they needed to duplicate, applying the
      duplicated Stone on the duplicated shelves, and transferring the
      duplicated shelves into the many trunks they brought there. Harry
      and Hermione had wanted to duplicate more books - they hadn't even
      got anywhere near the science fictions region yet. However, all the
      adults - including Severus, who had a phoenix to sustain him - had
      shown signs of magical exhaustion by 1 pm, and the three Auror
      trios had already drank several bottles of magic-replenishing
      potions, so they had to come back for security reasons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although not <em class="calibre8">completely</em> satisfied, for you could never
      have enough books, Harry had already rated today among one of the
      top ten days in his life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After landing, Harry turned around and cheerfully thanked
      Severus: "Professor Snape, thank you so much! Duplicating the
      British Library - this is one of the top fifty most brilliant ideas
      that I ever know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smugly smiled, and tilted his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noted to himself that Severus seemed to enjoy praises, and
      exclaimed happily: "Now we can continue our work on the space stuff
      with answers in almost any field of Muggle science. After Draco, my
      father and Hermione's parents get here, I guess we can start
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As house-elves began to serve them with lunch, and Harry started
      working on the fireplace, Severus used this time to test Hermione
      on the written Parseltongue they had learned yesterday. "Miss
      Granger, please use this time to write down the all letters of
      Parseltongue in the correct order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hermione began to draw the snake-like letters, Harry had a
      strange feeling. This was one of the few times that Harry had
      learned things faster and better than Hermione did. For Harry and
      Draco, the twenty-eight letters of Parseltongue seemed something
      resembling Greek letters, which were definitely different from the
      English letters, but not that difficult to learn or to recognize.
      Once they knew the letters, to spell out Parseltongue words and
      sentences according to a number of simple phonetic rules felt like
      a breeze - Parseltongue didn't even have any letter or combination
      of letters that should be pronounced differently under different
      circumstances. However, for Hermione and Mad-Eye, it was another
      story. Harry had already tried to teach Hermione Parseltongue
      before this, but even with Hermione's advanced auditory system, she
      still said that all the hisses sounded almost identical to her. As
      for the written form of Parseltongue, although Hermione's memory
      was better than anyone Harry knew, the Parseltongue letters still
      looked like doodling and sprawling snakes to her. She could
      remember the shapes of the letters that Severus wrote down, but if
      the same letters written by Harry and Draco were presented to her,
      or if Severus wrote down the letters again a little bit
      differently, it was still hard for her to recognize them. As for
      poor Mad-Eye, Harry couldn't help but to feel sympathy for the old
      Auror who seemed to prefer dueling Voldemort than learning
      Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hermione was one-third of the way done with the letters,
      Mad-Eye appeared in the green flames, followed by Dad and Draco.
      Mad-Eye nodded to Harry, and disappeared in the flames again,
      probably going to the Grangers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dad exchanged greetings with Severus, nodded to Hermione who was
      struggling with some letters, and the delightly asked: "How is your
      day, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could see that Dad's mood was better than he had been for
      quite a while. It seemed that having a student again, even if it is
      just Draco for a few hours, had done a lot of good to Professor
      Michael Verres-Evans .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff sadly said: <em class="calibre8">You know, we should have thought of
      this earlier. We shouldn't wait until Hermione and we were
      discussing about the trajectories of satellites, while Draco knew
      little about Newtonian physics to think of it. We should have cared
      more about Mom and Dad earlier.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin untimely suggested a possible explanation: <em class="calibre8">I know
      why we did it - until yesterday, we didn't think Mom and Dad as
      someone useful. As a matter of fact, for the most part of the past
      year, we were trying to keep everyone away from Muggle science,
      just in case some idiot would consider transfiguring antimatter as
      a good idea.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hid his thoughts from the surface of his persona, and
      happily answered: "One of the best days ever!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really? Should you tell me about even this?" Dad joked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Actually, we shouldn't. We need to let Mad-Eye erase this
      part of his memory afterwards.</em> Slytherin said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew Slytherin was right to a certain extent, but the
      Harry under the mask couldn't help but to feel overwhelmed by a
      wave of sorrow. On the surface, Harry grinned and answered: "You
      bet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dad laughed, as if this little bit of sharing of his son's life
      was enough for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff almost cried: <em class="calibre8">What have we done?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I think you should let more of your friends learn
      science, or is that prohibited as well?" Dad jokily said, and
      nodded to Severus, "Young Mr. Malfoy and I had quite a delightful
      morning. And your godson is quite a bright and charming young man,
      Professor Snape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco smiled with a hint of shy and awkwardness, as a proper
      thirteen-year-old should do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could see that Draco had won Dad's heart within a few
      hours - Dad even began to praise Draco to his godfather, instead of
      showing off Harry, but -</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wow, see how good Draco is at satisfying Dad's desire for a
      "normal" child prodigy? If he is not useful for other stuff, we can
      at least use him to entertain our parents.</em> Slytherin
      commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' smile was quite sincere as he replied, "Thank you,
      Professor Verres-Evans. Your son is the most extraordinary young
      man that I have ever known."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry still had some problems with this kind of "normal" talk
      between guardians of child prodigies. However, he was way better at
      controlling himself by this point, and he decided that he could at
      least indulge Dad this much. As for Severus Snape, that man
      probably had little idea about how to actually raise a child, but
      he had enough experience talking to his students' parents. And
      being an extraordinary Legilimens, Severus definitely knew what
      most parents wanted to hear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And Severus probably wants to secure Draco's position, just
      in case that he dies in space exploration.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this time, the ultimate nightmare that represented disastrous
      "normal" parenting appeared in green flames in the form of Roberta
      and Leo Granger. The very idea that he might end up with
      <em class="calibre8">them</em> as his parents-in-law could crush most of Harry's
      romantic thoughts about Hermione at a time of this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a brief moment, Harry regretted having including Dr. and Dr.
      Granger in this project, but Slytherin quickly reminded him that
      Dr. Roberta Granger was the only one who had some scientific
      upbringing and could understand Russian. Spending her youth years
      in the turbulent 1960s in Cambridge meant that Roberta had once
      been a fan of Trotsky. Harry supposed, he should be grateful that
      Roberta grew out of it after graduation, and she didn't end up like
      the Cambridge Five.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moreover, Hufflepuff demanded: <em class="calibre8">We have already caused them
      enough worries. If Hermione can deal with their parenting, we can
      deal with it as well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin agreed: <em class="calibre8">Just eat your sandwich, and let them have
      small talks with Severus and Draco. Draco is an expert in
      entertaining idiots in the way they prefer, so they will be less
      troublesome to us.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Mad-Eye finished applying privacy and security charms
      around them, and Severus had given a perfect grade on Hermione's
      recitation of Parseltongue letters (which led to some horrible
      gloating from Leo Granger), Dad became Harry's hero: "So, what is
      this thing that you need our help, and then erase our memories
      with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, Dad, I love you so much.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gratefully began his explanation about their plan for
      space travel. Of course, he just mentioned that by going to the
      Moon, they might reduce the interference between magic and Muggle
      electronics, and conveniently omitted anything about the Interdict
      of Merlin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dad's eyes sparkled and he laughed when he heard about this
      morning's raid of the British Library. It seemed like Dad would
      like to become best pals with Severus within the next second.
      Somehow, this effect was lost on Dr. and Dr. Granger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Harry's great relief, the part that Severus was going to the
      Moon was enough of an excitement to Dr. and Dr. Granger, which
      proved that their Muggle science education hadn't completely
      failed. Harry briefly wondered if they would be this excited when
      they knew that Harry's first choice of wizarding astronaut was
      actually their daughter. However, Harry found that he had gotten so
      much better at controlling his tongue than he was one and a half
      years ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad, could you help us figure out a proper landing spot on the
      Moon?" Harry asked, and then turned to Dr. and Dr. Granger, "Uncle
      Leo, would you try to figure out how the life support system works
      in the spacesuits? And maybe also try to figure out how much
      oxygen, water and other things we need. Aunt Roberta, there are
      quite some plates in Russian on the space capsule, and I am afraid
      Professor Snape is not familiar with the technological terms, would
      you two work on that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Leo Granger gave Harry a strange look, as if wondering why
      Harry, instead of Severus or Mad-Eye, was giving the order.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, right, I haven't established my dominance in front of
      the Grangers, and Hermione probably has a hard time conveying this
      idea to them as well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dad became Harry's savior again, as he happily answered: "Of
      course!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Harry's relief, Dr. Leo Granger hesitantly followed suit with
      a nudge from his wife.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
