<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 53 Space Travel 10, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 53: Space Travel Pt X, Expansion</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">8:50 am, July 27th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In Harry's headquarters office, Harry observed the ex-Lord
      Malfoy who was again "brought back to give testimony", and
      estimated how much influence this man would have on Severus Snape
      as the blond continued to speak: "Lord Potter, there is another
      matter that I have to report to you. According to the Russian guard
      whom I recently bribed, Grindelwald spoke to Dimitrov in private
      three times in the recent two days. I think they are up to
      something, maybe an escape plan, or something more sinister in
      nature. I think Grindelwald might be trying to show us that if we
      don't agree to his request, he will make it happen anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Great. Now, not only the second most powerful dark wizard
      in the world is planning an escape, but also his accomplice may or
      may not be Voldemort.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed inwardly. He would really like to spend all his
      time on the space stuff, but there were always so many petty
      squabbles between human beings that might lead to instant world
      destruction. And Harry's current deadline for gaining power that
      most wizards could understand was in the middle of September, when
      Grindelwald would receive his Stone treatment. Harry dearly hoped
      that Severus' trip to the Moon would result in something on how to
      save Dumbledore from Time. Otherwise, Harry would have to either
      come up with some new schemes against the "nice (aka, less
      predictable)" Voldemort, or rely on Lucius'
      probably-not-that-reliable diplomatic skills until someone on their
      side became a top wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Malfoy, if Grindelwald escapes, and in the worst case,
      allies with You-Know-Who, who can help us?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed that Lucius had already thought of this matter, for he
      immediately answered: "Lord Potter, I am afraid that the rest of
      the world has some misconceptions on the potential danger of our
      enemies, and they also wonder what we can do. I suppose, if we
      continue our current policy, the majority of the top wizards in the
      world would hold back their hands and watch, as what they had done
      in the late seventies and early eighties. They would very much like
      to let the two most notorious dark wizards rob the Stone from us,
      and then they themselves would become the hero who save the day,
      and study the Stone and the Mirror as a reasonable reward for their
      great contribution for humanity. Of course, unless we promise a
      limited number of them that they and they alone can have the
      privilege to study the origin of magic while others cannot. Lord
      Potter, if you desire the later approach, I have a list of names
      who have reasonable good reputations for your consideration."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed: "Mr. Malfoy, please write down the names, and
      their advantages and disadvantages, and I would have a background
      check on them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Potter, there might be something about the majority of the
      top wizards that could be a good news to you." Lucius' face twisted
      into a bitter smile. "If the rest of the world knows who has the
      Stone, the holder of the Stone would have to share its service with
      wizards around the world - I don't suppose anyone dares to face the
      wrath of the entire world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err, OK, this IS actually a good news for humanity. The
      problem is, we don't know what would happen if someone who is NOT
      that rational becomes the holder of the Stone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry supposed, he needed another alternative plan, but he
      couldn't think of anything <em class="calibre8">safe</em>. "Mr. Malfoy, please keep
      thinking what other alternatives we have. And there is another
      matter that I need to tell you, so that you can ponder on its
      implications."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry observed Lucius closely, and then revealed the space
      mission to Lucius, with the potential danger exasperated a little
      and the part about Baikov omitted. As Harry had expected, Lucius
      showed shock, excitement, and also concern after he heard that
      Severus would be the astronaut. Harry knew Lucius could be an
      amazing actor if he wanted to, but Harry thought the concern for
      Severus' life was real to a certain extent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After flattering on how smart and creative Harry was (Lucius was
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> good at this), Lucius said: "If Severus can find
      anything that may save Dumbledore from Time, then most problems we
      have will be solved. If there is only regular Interdicted magic in
      our collection, and the news about this mission leaks -" Lucius'
      face turned a bit whiter, "Then, we - or at least Severus - will be
      in graver danger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was temporarily confused, and then he realized:
      <em class="calibre8">Capturing and torturing Severus for information wouldn't be
      that dangerous or hard as robbing the Stone, and it surely wouldn't
      cause the same level of wrath and endless hunting from the rest of
      the world. And in Severus' folly, he has leaked the information to
      Baikov. On another hand, since Lucius can think of the danger
      Severus would be in so quick, the ex-Lord Malfoy must care about
      Severus a lot. Moreover, Lucius is indeed genuinely quick on dark
      things.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Harry was considering how to reveal the Baikov matter to
      Lucius, the blond wizard continued: "However, even if this mission
      fails to provide us instant security, it might be a way to solve a
      long term problem." Lucius hesitated a bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius delivered another matter that Harry hadn't thought of
      before he provided the service of the Stone to the world: "A side
      effect caused by the Stone is the blockage of the upward mobility
      of the youth. Even before the Stone, the problem has been there in
      the wizarding society. For example, Madam Griselda Marchbanks
      became a member of the Wizengamot at the age of one hundred and
      twenty-one, after her father passed away at the age of one hundred
      and fifty-seven. And now, since Madam Marchbanks has regained her
      youth, her eldest son may never become a member of the
      Wizengamot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that." Harry already knew a plan to solve that problem, "We
      can give a term to Wizengamot seats and any other posts like that,
      something like you can't serve more than x years in a y year
      period."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius raised an eyebrow, as if asking Harry, how long Harry's
      leadership term would be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">To be honest, Harry wanted to lead the humanity
      <em class="calibre8">forever</em>, which meant that <em class="calibre8">Harry</em> would become the
      one who blocked the way for others. Harry didn't really want to
      imagine the horrible scene where Harry was fighting with someone
      who was as smart as Harry for power. However, if the time scale was
      long enough, this someone would eventually turn up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff wanted to assign a term for their own leadership, but
      Slytherin was against the idea: <em class="calibre8">Hey, we need to make sure that
      the humanity is safe, right? We may never fully anticipate where
      the danger might come from. And if it suddenly comes, and we are
      not the Leader, we may not have the authority and resources needed
      to stop the danger. According to Prophecies,</em> we <em class="calibre8">are the
      only hope humanity has, remember?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Excuse!</em> Gryffindor roared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ravenclaw said: <em class="calibre8">I think we just need to know all the
      important knowledge. With knowledge, comes power. And that's enough
      for me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Harry was debating in his own mind, Lucius continued as if
      the eyebrow was raised for nothing: "If we can expand to other
      planets, there would be a lot of opened vacant seats, and the
      problem is partially solved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin thoroughly agreed: <em class="calibre8">Yes! We can send the young
      aspirants to far-away galaxies, or even other universes, so that
      they won't fight for power with us.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Harry knew Hermione would scream at him for this, he
      still felt a bit relieved upon the prospect that he could hold the
      power for a tad longer, and -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">In the name of Atlantis, the Malfoys are really good at
      serving their Lords.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">I apologize for such a long time without an update. In the past
      year, I failed to win the H1-B lottery for the second time. For
      those who don't know, H1-B is a type of working visa to legally
      work in the US, and you have to enter a lottery in April to have a
      chance to get it. The chance of winning was ~30-50%. And since I
      failed twice and expired my OPT-allowed working period, I had to go
      back to China.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As a matter of fact, I am quite lucky to be from China, where
      there are quite some job opportunities where my knowledge and
      skills obtained during my PhD and postdoc years are highly valued,
      and my US-earned PhD would help me to move up the work-place ladder
      quicker. I know in a lot of parts of the world, not only there is
      practically no such position available, but also hard to survive
      for most people.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
