<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 54 Space Travel, Part 11 Loyalty, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s23" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 54: Space Travel Pt XI, Loyalty Problem</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">11:09 am, July 27th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the Boy-Who-Lived's headquarter office, Lucius watched as
      Mad-Eye Moody disappeared in green flames to do background checks
      on the list of top wizards that Lucius provided. Lucius hoped this
      mission could keep the old Auror busy for a while. And as the
      Boy-Who-Lived and the Girl-Who-Revived went to the newly conjured
      neighboring room to do some experiments, there were just Severus
      and Lucius left in this headquarter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius looked at Severus, who was noting down numbers on the
      experiment of how much "oxygen" Stella consumed while resting in a
      sealed transparent box. Lucius didn't quite know what to do with
      his best friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the Boy-Who-Lived told Lucius about the whole Baikov
      matter, Lucius was almost speechless at the lack of tactfulness on
      Severus' part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lack of loyalty exhibited in Severus' dealing with Baikov
      wasn't a problem for Lucius at all - Lucius himself wasn't that
      loyal to the Boy-Who-Lived, either. He served this new Light Lord
      because he didn't want the world to end, and because he wanted
      Draco to secure his position in the new power structure. To be
      honest, if there was another powerful lord who could ensure the
      safety of the world, Lucius had no problem switching his loyalty
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, the lack of true loyalty to a leader didn't mean that
      you let the leader knew about it before you could kick your
      previous master to hell; especially, you shouldn't let your current
      master knew about it before you even get yourself a new one. And
      Severus, in his naivety and stupidity, had exactly done that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">In the name of Merlin, how did Severus Snape survive
      serving both the Dark Lord and Albus Dumbledore?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Or does Severus think that he will die in the Moon mission,
      so he simply doesn't care? And that's why Severus has a phoenix on
      his shoulder now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This hypothesis brought quite some horror to Lucius' heart.
      Lucius knew that Severus was the most powerful wizard that he could
      cling to, and both the length of his prison sentence and the level
      of privilege that he would have in Nurmengard depended on Severus.
      Strangely, Lucius found himself caring about Severus' life for
      reasons beyond that. Lucius knew true life debts might lead to
      unknown bonding between the two parties involved, and Lucius had
      almost lost count on how many life debts he owed Severus. Moreover,
      Severus had treated Draco and Lucius with friendship and loyalty
      that Lucius didn't quite expect and couldn't repay in the
      foreseeable future. Now, Lucius found himself caring that
      mannerless halfblood more than he had realized, at the time that he
      might lose him. Suddenly, Lucius was glad that Severus made a deal
      with Baikov behind Potter's back - the Boy-Who-Lived might veto the
      deal for security reasons, and Mad-Eye would surely object this
      deal with all means possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, this didn't mean Severus had to do it so tactlessly -
      Lucius could name hundreds of ways to make the whole matter look
      better in the eyes of the Boy-Who-Lived. He really needed to teach
      the halfblood some maneuver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An hour ago, under Potter's inquiry, Lucius could only let the
      Light Lord know that Severus had problems seeing dangers unless it
      was imminent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">What else can I say? Severus showed disobedience because he
      thought he would probably die? Or Severus doesn't want to die, but
      you might veto his plan to increase his chances of
      survival?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius didn't assume the Boy-Who-Lived was satisfied with his
      answer, for now he was left alone with Severus. Potter didn't
      exactly ask Lucius to help him align Severus' loyalty, but the
      indication was clear enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius pondered his words, and then asked: "Severus, how
      dangerous is the Moon thing? Muggles went there and came back
      alive, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired man started warding the place. After Severus
      was done, the black-haired wizard sighed, "I have no idea, Lucius.
      Both Americans and Soviets had tried to send wizards to the space
      by Muggle rockets, and both wizards were killed. We are trying to
      do it with magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Severus, my brother -" Lucius let emotions run into his vocal
      cords, and heard his own voice tremble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sat down across the table from Lucius, and briefly
      avoided Lucius' eyes: "I am sorry, Lucius. If I were to know that I
      may make Draco lose someone again, I - I probably wouldn't be so
      close with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was a bit baffled by Severus' train of thoughts, but he
      quickly replied: "Oh, Severus, you don't need to worry about this.
      Or if you have to, just come back safely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smiled bitterly: "Lucius, I am truly sorry that my
      certain actions had put you and Draco into a hard position, I
      should have been more thoughtful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This sentence from Severus horrified Lucius: <em class="calibre8">Does he really
      expect himself to die?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius tried to smile, and proudly announced: "Severus, you
      don't have to worry about us, we are the Malfoys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus looked at Lucius as if looking at some naughty but cute
      kid, which annoyed and horrified Lucius on some unspeakable
      level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Why is he looking at me as if I am a child asking for
      icecreams? This isn't a good sign.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired man then smile: "Lucius, I've started to feel
      all the petty squabbles between normal wizards quite pathetic, and
      I don't care about those things that much. For example, the rivalry
      between me and Mad-Eye, it wouldn't even be there if either of us
      wields real power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' jaw slightly dropped. He didn't expect this from
      Severus. He knew wizards like Grindelwald cared more about the
      origin of magic than an unpleasant Unbreakable Vow, but Grindelwald
      still cared about mundane matters enough to start a war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">If Severus feels the rivalry between normal wizards
      pathetic, then what use can the Malfoys be to him?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus rubbed his temple, and smiled with some
      self-deprecation: "Yeah, who am I to say such things? I am not a
      Lord, - at least, not in five to ten years. However, when I heard
      Oleg Baikov talking about his suicidal plan to Apparate multiple
      times to the space, just for a chance to know whether the
      Interdicts could be bypassed, and to be able to read Comrade
      Shakhov's collection of notes, I was really moved, and let my
      judgement slip." Severus blushed a little, and sighed, "Now, I know
      I should think more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, Merlin, Severus wouldn't take this Baikov as his new
      best friend, would he?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius suddenly felt his position as Severus' best friend
      shaken. He needed to formulate a rescue plan, <em class="calibre8">fast</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was glad that they didn't conduct this conversation in
      Parseltongue, for he was saying "Severus, I understand", while as a
      matter of fact, Lucius didn't quite understand this mentality.
      "However, you need to be careful, and you need to remind Baikov to
      be careful as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Lucius began to exaggerate the danger that Severus might
      face after he came back alive, in case the news of his mission got
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, it was Severus' turn to drop his jaw. Obviously,
      before this point, the black-haired Lord-wannabe hadn't thought of
      that possibility at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, Lucius began to understand why all the top wizards he knew
      cared about mundane matters: <em class="calibre8">Those who didn't care about such
      matter were all killed before they got a chance</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius had to prevent his eyes from sparkling: <em class="calibre8">Merlin, this
      can be my position to Severus! Oh, and my position in the world,
      too! Hmm, Draco and his Lord are friends, and I should learn how to
      serve a Lord who is also my friend as well. It would be ideal that
      if Draco's Lord and my Lord are allies.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the ex-Lord Malfoy, helping a potential new lord who was
      currently in alliance with the Light Lord that both of them were
      serving didn't even constitute betrayal. Lucius was pretty sure
      that he could still claim his loyalty to the Boy-Who-Lived in
      Parseltongue, but he had to check on it in private.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius fought down his impulse to smile, and started selling his
      service at mundane matters to the black-haired wizard who had twice
      defeated a Comrade-to-be.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
