<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 56 ST13, Draco's Position, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s25" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 56: Space Travel Pt XIII, Draco's Position</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Many thanks to Kuilin and Dan, who helped edit this chapter, and
      saving this story.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">9:56 am, July 30th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beside the newly named and magically enlarged "Star Lake" in
      Malfoy Grange in Wiltshire, Draco watched keenly as the modified
      space capsule disappeared in phoenix fire. Draco hoped that
      Godfather would have a soft landing in his farm in Nevada, United
      States. According to the plan, Godfather would go to Nevada, check
      on how the landing went and equipment worked, tie himself up in the
      space capsule again, and come back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco then turned his eyes towards Harry, Hermione, Harry's Dad,
      and Hermione's parents, who were in some heated discussion that
      Draco couldn't even understand half of. Draco supposed, he should
      make himself useful in the discussion now. However, his heart
      wasn't quite in it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco could feel that his position as the right-hand man of the
      new Light Lord had become more marginalized ever since this space
      mission came up. Draco knew very well why this mission could be the
      most important thing that wizards have ever done after the
      Interdict of Merlin, but the fact that he couldn't understand much
      of it made Draco feel rather insecure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moreover, Harry had been talking about re-organizing the Order
      of Phoenix, and recruiting new blood. If Draco had really been
      Number Two or Number Three in a group of ruling elites that he
      could understand, this would be a great opportunity for him to
      grasp more power. Unfortunately, Draco was faced with the challenge
      of "making rules for a modern ruling organization". And what was
      worse, Draco had little authority over <em class="calibre8">anyone</em> in their
      current core conspiracy: Harry was his Lord, Hermione was the Lady,
      Mad-Eye wanted to throw him into Nurmengard, Severus was his
      Godfather, and Father was, well, Father.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">OK, to be fair, after talking with Father, Godfather has
      agreed to consult with me on political matters if Father's advice
      is not available. Somehow, I have a feeling that Godfather is only
      doing this so that Father and I won't be in a difficult position,
      while he himself doesn't care much about what Harry thinks. No
      matter what, Godfather is still the most powerful wizard in our
      small conspiracy, and he is the one to go on the greatest mission
      in wizarding history. Therefore, in any power structure that makes
      sense, Godfather should have privileges, at least, more privileges
      than me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco remembered a lesson that Father taught him long ago by
      heart, that Draco should respect people with real powers, be it
      magic, knowledge, or intelligence. And Father recently said, and
      Draco agreed, for the safety of the world, they should make sure
      that everyone respects people with real power as part of the rules
      which they were helping to make. For whatever weird reason,
      sometimes, the most powerful wizards in certain societies - such as
      Dumbledore in Great Britain, and Shakhov in Russia - might make
      themselves meek servants of the society, and accepted ridiculous
      rules made by lesser people. Only in societies like that,
      good-for-nothing bureaucrats such as Fudge and Smirnov could bully
      powerful wizards around. However, there would always be powerful
      wizards who didn't like the role of meek and harmless servant - the
      Comrades had overthrown the Soviet Union, the Dark Lord tried to
      challenge Dumbledore's orders, and for all Harry's pathetic
      pretence, the Boy-Who-Lived thought the world should be his own
      playground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, could you come here for a moment?" Harry's voice
      interrupted Draco's train of thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond boy showed a bright smile: "Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, Dad just raised a question that I need to ask you. Do
      you know if there is anyone who is rumored to be a phoenix
      animagus?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Animagus was one of the few fields of magic that Draco grasped
      better than Harry and Hermione - maybe because their supposed
      animagus meditation session was interrupted by the house-elf thing,
      while Draco was the only one who got private lessons on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father had told Draco that the gift of animagus passed down in
      families, and both the Malfoys and the Blacks had long lists of
      animagi in the bloodlines. Secretly, Draco thought Godfather's
      persistence in teaching him the arts of this advanced
      transfiguration had more to do with Draco becoming one at such a
      young age. Draco failed to turn into an animagus in his first
      animagus meditation, for he was unsure whether he should be a
      dragon or a snake. Ever since Draco could remember, he loved
      dragons. Draco knew all kinds of dragons in the world by heart when
      he was three years old, and he always considered the trip that
      Father took him to the Romanian Dragon Sanctuary when he was six
      years old as the best vacation. However, no matter what Father
      said, the man Draco had alway looked up to was a Blue Krait; and
      for some reason, Godfather also seemed to have a preference for
      Draco to become a snake. Draco supposed, becoming a snake animagus
      would make the learning process of Parseltongue like a breath. In
      his second animagus meditation, Draco decided to choose a
      snakedragon, which was a rare crossbred between dragons and snakes.
      That time, Draco successfully adopted an animagus form that had
      never been recorded in history.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco supposed, his rare form of animagus was the reason that
      Harry asked him the question on phoenix animagus. Draco searched
      his memory, and answered: "There is no known phoenix animagus.
      However, Dumbledore's Patronus is a phoenix, and there is some
      correlation between the Patronus form and the animagus form.
      Therefore, if Dumbledore were a secret animagus, he is likely to be
      a phoenix animagus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry replied: "Yeah, we've discussed that possibility. I'll ask
      Mr. Moody if he knows anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco briefly regretted his lack of involvement in the
      discussion among the "scientists", and offered more information as
      he could: "If you are asking about lores and stories about animagi
      in general, I think I've heard a bedtime story, where Merlin and an
      evil sorceress named Madam Mim had an animagus duel, and they
      turned into many different animals to beat each other. I think both
      of them seemed to be able to become any animal as they pleased. And
      in the same story, Merlin could teach King Arthur how to
      transfigure into both a fish and a bird. Actually, I think there
      are a number of stories where people could adopt a number of
      animagus forms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Hermione seemed to be excited about this story. Harry
      asked: "In the rumors, lores, bedtime stories, or anything like
      that, is there anyone who can become more than one type of animal,
      say, in the past two hundred years?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't think so." Draco answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Harry sounded a bit disappointed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Draco formed the resolution that he should spend more
      time with Stella, so he might have a chance to become a phoenix
      animagus to surprise his Light Lord with how useful he was, Harry
      said to Hermione: "Hermione, maybe you should spend some time with
      Fawkes, you have the braveness and light in your heart, so you may
      become a phoenix animagus. - Oh, and Draco, you may have more
      opportunities to spend time with Stella."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco wanted to roll his eyes upon this comment. Two days ago,
      after Harry concluded that Stella could gain energy from several
      different types of chemical reactions (Draco wasn't sure what that
      meant yet), he wanted to try to if Stella could utilize electrical
      energy. Draco was sure Stella didn't know what the black box named
      "car battery" was, but she was already quite annoyed by the rocket
      fuel that Harry fed her. Unfortunately for Harry, Stella partially
      understood Godfather's reply: "Mr. Potter, if I am not mistaken,
      things related to electricity don't work well with magic.
      Therefore, I don't assume the benefits of electrocuting Stella
      would outweigh the potential risk it brings to Stella."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Harry had eventually been convinced by Godfather, Draco
      thought Stella probably still considered Harry - and by
      association, his best friend and their parents - as people who
      wanted to hurt her. Stella had been avoiding the Boy-Who-Lived, the
      Girl-Who-Revived, and their family members since then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco guessed, he had been useful in telling Harry that he
      shouldn't try to run the experiments that Stella disliked on
      Fawkes, for if both phoenixes avoided the Boy-Who-Lived and the
      Girl-Who-Revived, it would be bad for public relations and become a
      very negative indicator of their characters in front of potential
      allies. Draco knew the Boy-Who-Lived could handle
      <em class="calibre8">political</em> concessions pretty well, but the boy brought up
      by a Muggle scientist didn't like it when politics hindered the
      great process of <em class="calibre8">science</em>. However, giving Harry political
      advice was Draco's value in the core conspiracy, and he had to do
      the right thing to keep the world safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco suppressed his impulse to roll his eyes toward the
      <em class="calibre8">scientists</em> who came up with idea after idea, and shared
      his experience of becoming an animagus with his Lord and Lady as if
      nothing had happened: "The animagus meditation potion tastes like
      some food your potential animagus form likes. For me, it tasted
      like rare steak. After drinking it, I entered some sort of trance,
      my vision was both blurred and sharpened -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A splash of water from the Star Lake broke Draco's sentence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone turned their head toward the lake. A conical shaped
      space capsule floated up from the lake, at a position that was two
      or three meters away from the marked designated point of
      landing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A phoenix flame later, the space capsule appeared again on the
      lakeshore. After a few seconds, the capsule was opened from the
      inside, and Godfather climbed out with Stella on his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Godfather appeared a bit clumsy in the spacesuit. He clicked
      something, and the back of the spacesuit opened. Godfather climbed
      out from the back of the hard-shell spacesuit, and said: "As tested
      previously, with me alone, Stella could land within centimeters of
      the designated spot. However, when I was strapped into the space
      capsule, Stella was in her bird space suit, and grabbed her handle
      inside the capsule, the landing location was no longer that
      precise. In Nevada, the capsule was 1.9 meters above the ground,
      and 2.3 meters from the center spot; and for this return trip, the
      measurement globe said that the bottom of the capsule was 2.4
      meters from the water surface, and 2.8 meters from the center of
      the designated landing spot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stella pecked on Godfather's ear, and croaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know it is difficult." Godfather petted Stella. "We need to
      practise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was a bit surprised, for he didn't think Godfather was
      such a pet person, and Godfather had never shown so much patience
      for him. During the private sessions, even though Godfather had
      treated him much better than any Slytherin in the Potion classroom,
      Draco still had experienced quite some snide remarks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Godfather wordlessly checked the space capsule for any damage
      and water leaks, and said: "We need to improve the wand holding
      sheath on my spacesuit - my wand almost fell out when the capsule
      hit ground in Nevada. The moisture adjustment charms in it might be
      malfunctioning, for it felt very dry inside the spacesuit. And by
      the way, Draco, where did your father get his gloves? I wonder how
      his gloves can transduce magic so well, while the gloves on the
      spacesuit can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco supposed Godfather was also curious in how the
      snake-headed cane could transduce magic so well. While outsiders
      were present, Draco only replied: "Twilfitt and Tattings. The Crimp
      family has been making quality magical accessories for generations.
      I have quite a few pairs of gloves from them, and I'll have a
      house-elf bring several pairs here now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Godfather nodded in thanks, and continued to check on the parts
      on the capsule loaded with cushioning spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco noted to himself that he should order several more pairs
      of gloves for Godfather from Twilfitt and Tattings - actually, he
      should order two sets of clothing for every occasion from Twilfitt
      and Tattings for Godfather. Draco quickly summoned parchment and
      quill from his pouch, and wrote down the orders, and gave the note
      to his new personal elf, Sparky. On the other hand, Draco dearly
      hoped that the Malfoys wouldn't become nothing but a deep pocket in
      their conspiracy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Harry explained the phoenix animagus idea to
      Godfather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Godfather seemed to be quite excited about it, and nodded to
      Harry's Dad: "Yes, a great idea indeed, Professor Verres-Evans. It
      would definitely be very handy in space. I should try to see if I
      am capable of adopting a new form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Godfather then paused, as if trying to remember something, and
      then said: "There is another little-written nuance in animagus
      transformation, that people may be able to transform only part of
      their body into their animagus forms. It actually comes from the
      fact that when people change back to their human form after their
      first successful animagus meditation, most people have some parts
      of their bodies still in animal forms. It is possible to
      consciously produce this phenomenon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth, as if he wanted to ask something, but he
      closed his mouth again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco remembered that Godfather seemed to know what was
      happening behind him lately. One year ago, Draco had seen
      Gryffindors silently making nasty gestures toward Godfather behind
      his back in corridors, but Godfather didn't catch them every time.
      Draco supposed, Godfather learned or perfected this bat-related
      trick during the past year, when he was away pursuing power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can teach you all this trick later." Godfather sternly
      examined the facial expressions of Harry, Hermione, and Draco, and
      changed the subject with a straight face, "Oh, and the capsule
      seems to be in good condition from my spells. I'll check for any
      gas leakage with the Muggle equipment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled out several strange-looking objects that Draco
      couldn't fully understand from the experimental equipment pouch,
      and asked."Professor Snape, do you think Stella would be able to
      haul the entire capsule out from rocks, in case the capsule ended
      up landing several meters below the ground?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was another moment when Draco found himself stupid. Harry's
      question was quite obvious retrospectively, but Draco had never
      thought of it, even after the capsule ended up several meters below
      water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stella, can we give it a try?" Godfather asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stella threw Harry an annoyed look, and cawed in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And as if getting beaten by Harry's intelligence was not enough,
      Hermione's father asked another seemingly obvious question:
      "Professor Snape, I'm still not so sure about how phoenix
      transportation works. Do we need to check for possible gas loss
      after phoenix transportation? I mean, when Stella takes the space
      capsule, does she also take the majority of air inside it? I guess,
      the capsule not getting soaked when it landed in water was a good
      sign, but we need to be sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, everyone with some Muggle science background - which was
      everyone besides Draco - began planning the improvements needed,
      and what the next set of experiments should be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Draco cooled down a bit from the initial sense of defeat,
      he found the fact that Hermione's father was able to ask a question
      that he hadn't thought of was actually good news: <em class="calibre8">Hermione's
      father isn't as smart as Harry. Therefore, his advantage over me on
      this kind of stuff must come from learning science.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young Lord Malfoy silently let out a breath, and decided:
      <em class="calibre8">I really need to learn Muggle science well. Moreover, I wonder
      if Muggles have developed the science thing on politics.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
