<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 57 ST14, Time Pressure I, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s26" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 57: Space Travel Pt XIV, Time Pressure I</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I want to thank Dan for beta-ing this chapter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">4:31 pm, August 3rd, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his headquarter office, Harry sat behind his desk, and
      practised his confident and soft smile to Mad-Eye: "Mr. Moody,
      could you take a look at these notes, and see if there is anything
      that you can read?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye shot Harry a very suspicious look, as if he wanted to
      say something, but decided to start flipping through the large
      stack of duplicates of doodling notes instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed inwardly for his failed experiment on pretending to
      lead in another style - Draco had suggested that Harry should at
      least give it a try.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">OK, I wouldn't be surprised if Mad-Eye suddenly throws
      several spells at me. Actually, Mad-Eye is probably using wandless
      and wordless checking charms on me now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was another moment when Harry's practise of secrecy, and
      the distrust between Mad-Eye and Severus, might cost him time.
      Harry knew some of the notes Mad-Eye was skimming through were
      things Harry had shown Mad-Eye and Severus while they were trying
      to figure out how to lock Harry and all the Riddles in Time by the
      Mirror. Back then, Harry handed over Dumbledore's unreadable notes
      during the past two years, plus anything in his Line of Merlin
      heritage that was chronologically near to readable notes containing
      the concept of "Mirror". At that time, neither Mad-Eye nor Severus
      claimed that they could understand any magic related to the Mirror
      from the notes, but neither of them commented on whether they could
      understand anything <em class="calibre8">else</em> on those notes in the presence of
      each other. And afterwards, well, Harry let them erase each other's
      memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">I should have asked them separately what they had
      understood. However, since neither of them felt the need to give me
      any particular hint to speak to me privately, I guess none of the
      stuff would be all that important or concerning. Unfortunately,
      neither of them is very sharp on certain matters.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A certain part of Harry felt pretty good about being the
      smartest person in their conspiracy, but sometimes, even that part
      got a bit tired, and he hoped someone else, - say, Hermione, -
      would catch up with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye's hands stopped on a page about one fifth through the
      stack, and said: "This is Albus' draft years ago, on the techniques
      of Time-Turner making." Mad-Eye paused, gave Harry a glance, and
      continued, "I think a number of people in the Department of
      Mysteries and Aurors who are authorized to investigate crimes
      related to Time-Turners know how to make a common one, and this
      improvement doesn't contain any additional layer of Interdicted
      magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes lit up, and glanced at the page again, which still
      looked like nonsense lines and drawings to him, and he felt a
      headache upon the ignorance of wizards: <em class="calibre8">Since a bunch of
      Ministry employees plus probably a number of other people know the
      secret already, Mad-Eye didn't consider the making of a</em> Time
      Machine <em class="calibre8">important enough to bring up when we were working on
      the Mirror!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Admittedly, Severus was present during the whole time, which
      might mean Mad-Eye did consider this piece of information very
      important, which would also lead to the conclusion that the
      mistrust between his two most powerful subordinates was causing him
      <em class="calibre8">time</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was always up to the challenges of more secrecy, but
      somewhere in the back of his brain, he felt as if he was missing
      something - again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While a significant portion of Harry's brain was trying to
      figure out the question "what I think I know, and how I think I
      know it", another part of Harry who worked on autopilot had to ask:
      "I have already formed several guesses on that. Is it timeless
      physics? That time is an illusion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye was obviously confused by Harry's sentence, but Harry
      could see the old Auror might have relaxed a bit upon hearing
      something that was very "Harry".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the page again, which still failed to show any
      sensible word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">OK, maybe timeless physics is too advanced for the ancient
      wizards or witches who invented Time-Turners. Let's go down a
      bit.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry asked again: "Is it that Time is another dimension,
      similar to Space, and only with a limited capacity for going
      backwards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a look at the page again, and saw a description in
      plain English in Dumbledore's handwritings:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Time is a river that runs downstream, and we only have a
      limited ability to wade against the flow. After Professor Saul
      Croaker's improvements on the Hour-Reversal Charm, - very ingenious
      indeed - we can use cheaper materials such as gold, silver, and
      quartz to make Time-turners, instead of expensive and rare
      materials such as mithril and adamantine. I also have some thoughts
      on the Hour-Reversal Charm, or maybe it should be called
      Time-Reversal Charm, since the time reversed would no longer be
      restricted to full hours…</em> "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Harry had owned a <em class="calibre8">Time Machine</em> for almost two
      years now, he was still happy beyond himself to actually know how
      to make one - and an improved one, no less. Harry always considered
      it ridiculous that the Time-Turner could only reverse Time in whole
      hour increments, and it was very unlikely that Time could only be
      reversed six exact hours. There had been some arguments in magical
      history books on the inventor of Time-Turners, but all books agreed
      that it was invented after Merlin, and before the foundation of
      Hogwarts. From all Harry knew, back then, hours were defined by
      1/24 of a day. Although the inventor, -or inventors,- might think
      differently, it was extremely unlikely that 1/24 of the average
      rotation cycle of an unimportant planet in a remote area in the
      Milky Way somehow coincided with one exact quantum amount of Time
      that could be reversed, and the maximum number of quanta that could
      be stretched in each twenty-four quanta was exactly six. Harry
      thought he had read it somewhere that the apparent solar time each
      day was different every day, and varied from year to year. Even if
      the maximum Time that could be stretched per twenty-four hours was
      something like six hours plus one millisecond, Harry would still
      like to know it, for that might relate to something fundamental for
      the entire Universe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye handed that page and three pages after that to Harry,
      and Harry immersed himself into <em class="calibre8">Advanced Time Machine</em>
      making.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the meanwhile, Slytherin noted: <em class="calibre8">hey, Mad-Eye seems to be
      happy about me showing the notes to him first, and Severus later.
      If Severus is similar to Mad-Eye on this issue, he may feel
      alienated. Unfortunately, Severus might not even care
      anymore.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed inwardly. If he were going to form an alliance with
      some powerful lords and ladies from other countries, he'd better
      learn how to interact with an ally with an easy case - such as one
      Severus Snape, who had a phoenix as his proof of character, and
      could speak only technically true statements if asked in
      Parseltongue. Moreover, everyone Severus cared about was already
      sort of in Harry's charge - that man had even handed Harry a small
      strand of hair from his deceased mother, Eileen Snape when he
      returned a lock of hair from Lily to Harry a few days ago. Harry
      knew a certain level of manipulation might have been involved here,
      he still felt quite personally responsible for everyone in Severus'
      family, and Harry had strengthened his resolution on reviving every
      sapient being that had ever lived. As for the thirty-something top
      wizards in the world, there was no definitive proof of character;
      there was no guarantee that they would tell even partial truth; not
      only were their family and loved ones not by Harry's side, they
      could also be used by dark wizards to force the lords and ladies to
      stand against Harry; and every one of them could defeat the
      combined forces of Severus, Mad-Eye, plus a bunch of Aurors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry really resented the potentially grim prospect of having
      allies who were less intelligent yet more powerful than he was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From a very dark corner in Harry's mind, a voice quietly
      suggested a very "creative" idea: <em class="calibre8">Although it is hard to gain a
      lot of magical power in a short time, it is possible to - well, you
      know, if we can gather all the top wizards together, and construct
      a carefully calculated timed antimatter bomb…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone else - including Slytherin - gasped in horror, yelled
      in righteous fury, and started throwing punches on Dark Harry, for
      all of them knew it was <em class="calibre8">WRONG</em>, and the disappearance of
      all top wizards would definitely lead to instant chaos - if not
      World War III.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided to shut down his dark mode for as long as possible
      - or at least until the next crisis really called for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dark Harry sneered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Harry was trying to get his dark side under control,
      with a twist in his lips, Mad-Eye, who had been observing Harry for
      a while, brought out a colored paper copy of a yellowish
      black-and-white magical photo of - <em class="calibre8">a bearded Severus Snape with
      a hole in his chest?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">WHAT?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's brain wanted to deny the possibility of Severus' death,
      then the parts that were still functioning as they should realized
      that the corpse couldn't be Severus Snape: <em class="calibre8">for the sake of
      Merlin, the photo is too old, and Mad-Eye is too calm.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Mad-Eye and Severus fought like cats and dogs everyday,
      Harry didn't think the no-longer scarred Auror would so calmly show
      the Boy-Who-Lived a photo of a deceased Severus. The Mad-Eye Moody
      in Harry's head should be snarling "constant vigilance" and
      summoning members of the Order of Phoenix to protect Harry and the
      Stone six hours before he found Severus dead - whether the
      black-haired wizard was killed by Voldemort, some other dark
      wizards, or even Mad-Eye himself -</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Unless this isn't Mad-Eye Moody…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry was pretending to be in shock, while inwardly grinding
      his brain to figure out an escape plan, the man in front of the
      Boy-Who-Lived snarled with a raspy voice: "Shocked? Me too. I
      recently did some diggings of the top secrets of the former USSR,
      and got this rare photo of our old Ivan Pokrov - or at least that's
      the so-called real name I can get - commonly known as Lord
      Rasputin, after his death and with all his magical disguises worn
      off. Well, one can never know enough about dead dark wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Rasputin, oh, of course, the powerful Russian Lord and true
      seer, would and should change his appearances, and adopt a new
      identity, before meddling with muggle politics.</em> Harry
      reasoned. <em class="calibre8">Somehow, his disguise magic failed after his death.
      But why does Severus resemble him so much?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's imagination was quick in generating a number of
      explanations for the amazing resemblance, ranging from the most
      innocent one such as Severus was Rasputin's descendant, to the
      possibility that Severus was born/made as a magical clone for the
      purpose of the Russian lord's revival, and to ones that sounded
      really familiar: as a true seer who had foreseen his own death,
      Rasputin might have made a horcrux before he was assassinated, and
      this horcrux somehow wanted to make baby Severus a living horcrux,
      but the magic botched and imprinted Rasputin's looks and parts of
      his character on the baby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Part of Harry really resented the last possibility, for that
      would mean Harry wasn't that special.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But hey, what you don't like doesn't have to be true.</em>
      Part of Harry offered. <em class="calibre8">Rasputin was famous for his fondness for
      any breathing female. Severus might just be his descendant.</em>
      Before other parts of Harry could sneer, Harry's Ego continued,
      <em class="calibre8">you know, rumor says the Malfoys jinxed their own bloodline so
      that all the male descendants would look like their ancestors,
      which makes a lot of sense when they expect their ancestors to
      revive someday -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Harry got it: <em class="calibre8">Lord Rasputin expected himself to rise
      again - no, he probably foresaw his own revival.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew that true seers couldn't remember the Prophecies they
      told, but this didn't mean they couldn't know through other means.
      Considering the fact that Merlin threw away his life and magic to
      make the Hall of Prophecy, which recorded all the Prophecies made
      in the world, magical sound recording devices must have been
      invented during or before Merlin's time. And for a cunning true
      seer like Lord Rasputin, it made a lot of sense for him to carry
      several such devices with him all the time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry secretly smiled to himself, as this could be a good sign
      for his plan to revive every sapient being that had lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye's next sentences diverted Harry's train of thoughts:
      "One of the major difficulties of revival through a horcrux is to
      create a perfect body for oneself. There is no guarantee that your
      servant would willingly sacrifice his or her flesh after your
      death, and your father's bone could be tampered with - Snape and I
      had put quite some interesting stuff to the supposed tomb of Tom
      Riddle Sr., which obviously didn't serve its due purpose. However,
      it might not be too difficult for really powerful wizards to put a
      curse onto themselves and all their descendants, and I am wondering
      what the so-called Lord Rasputin might have tried in that
      department."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye's normal eye shifted slightly, as if he was not
      comfortable implying matters of a certain nature in front of the
      thirteen-year-old Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Being a Ravenclaw who had read too many books that he was not
      supposed to read, Harry had fully understood Mad-Eye's
      implications. In the back of his mind, Hufflepuff gasped in horror,
      Gryffindor wanted to track down the evil lord's horcruxes and put
      all of them in eternal fire, Ravenclaw tried to point out the fact
      that a male's mitochondria couldn't be passed down to his
      descendants, but Slytherin sneered and pointed out that Rasputin
      might have cursed his sisters - if he had them - as well. And in a
      dark corner, someone suggested that the Russian lord might actually
      have had kids with his sisters - or even his mother - to maximize
      his chances of success.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The no-longer old Auror's lips twisted in regret and anger.
      "I've checked up on Snape when Albus took him under his wings - but
      not enough, - you can never be vigilant and paranoid enough, as it
      turned out. There had been a rumor among the pureblood families
      that Eileen Prince's supposedly maternal grandfather, Serpens
      Lestrange, was sterile; and her mother, Virgo Prince nee Lestrange,
      was the illegitimate daughter of some wizard in Europe. I really
      should have tracked her true grandfather back then, but I was
      distracted by Voldie and all that. Although I've checked muggle
      public records, and the earliest record that I could find on the
      Snape family was in 1918, somehow I failed to make the Russian
      connection, until the lad gained too much power too quickly after
      his trips to the former Soviet Union. Albus had always told me to
      read more Muggle newspapers; if I did as Albus told me, I might
      have known that the rich Muggles fled Russia several years before
      Comrade Shakhov ousted his wizarding enemies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This news should be way more alarming than it was if there was
      not a phoenix on the shoulder of Severus. Stella was probably a
      good living proof that Severus had not been occupied by someone's
      horcrux.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moreover, there was another question that had been circling in
      the back of Harry's mind for a while -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Moody, what do you think on how you obtained this
      information?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye was probably expecting this question, for he quickly
      answered: "I greased a few palms, and a bunch of memory charms were
      also involved. But for whether the photo is real - well, I assume
      everyone with half a brain knows the Snape lad is related to the
      protection of the Stone, and a number of cunning ones might have
      noticed the Russian connection. And there it was, an old top-secret
      photo lying there among piles of old files, waiting for my
      discovery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This did sound quite suspicious regardless of whether Severus
      was indeed a result of a powerful wizard's curse onto his
      bloodline. If it were true, some ex-Comrade, or some other powerful
      and cunning wizard or witch who had access to top secrets of the
      former USSR, might have noticed the resemblance, plus Severus' role
      in the protection of the Stone, and devised a scheme involving
      Mad-Eye obtaining the photo; if it were false, well, someone must
      have faked the photo, and planted it there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As a matter of fact, there was a test that could prove or
      disprove the kinship between Severus and Rasputin, one that many
      wizards probably didn't know about: a DNA test. And if Harry
      remembered it right, the male part of Rasputin was soaked in
      Formalin, and on display in a museum - though there was no
      guarantee whatsoever of its authenticity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry could suggest the idea, Mad-Eye drew out another
      two photos, a magical photo of a sullen looking young witch in
      silver and green trimmed Hogwarts robes, and an old Muggle mugshot
      of an angry-looking middle-aged man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't need to read the fine lines on the bottoms of the
      photos to realize that these were Severus' parents, who both
      resembled Severus a lot, and more importantly, resembled each
      other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The photo of the young Eileen Prince is less likely to be fake,
      for many people in the wizarding world knew her, and the memories,
      photos, and paintings are consistent; as for Tobias Snape, well, at
      least the memories of the Muggles whom I have checked did not tell
      me anything differently." Mad-Eye said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a surge of sadness. It didn't take a genius to figure
      out that Severus' parents were unhappy as a couple, but they didn't
      choose to divorce, or in Eileen's case, just took their child and
      went to somewhere that Tobias could never find, for if a clever and
      evil lord cursed his own bloodline to inbreed according to
      <em class="calibre8">Prophecies</em>, the same curse would ensure they try to make
      more babies no matter what.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only thing that came sort of as a comfort was that Severus
      had loved Lily for many years, even though Lily didn't return his
      favor. This meant Severus could still fall in love when the
      influence of the possible curse was absent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">- <em class="calibre8">On another thought, Severus' ill fate might be determined
      by Prophecies all along. His birth, for example, was very likely to
      be one.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">- Moreover, Dumbledore probably wrote things on Lily Evan's
      Potions textbook according to a Prophecy. That act caused a great
      fight between Severus and Lily, increased the chance for Lily and
      James' marriage, ensured that Lily knew how to make her sister
      beautiful, and finally, led to the birth and proper upbringing of
      Harry Potter.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">- Not to mention, Dumbledore had also arranged for Severus
      to overhear one of the Prophecies, so that particular one would be
      delivered to Voldemort, the one which would later cause Severus to
      defect to the Light side.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff suggested sadly: <em class="calibre8">since Dumbledore was definitely
      acting on Prophecies for matters related to us, we might have
      wrongly reproached him for using Severus in a harsh way. For if he
      had relieved Severus' burden of guilt and grief, or ended Severus'
      infatuation for Lily earlier, there might not be an evil Potions
      master for us to publically defy, and the other Tom Riddle wouldn't
      teach us the valuable lesson on how to lose.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Harry's mind helpfully remembered the hysterical laughter
      that Dumbledore had after Harry blackmailed him: <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore
      might have just realized why Prophecies demanded an evil Potions
      master in Hogwarts until that day, and how all the sufferings of
      both the students and Severus himself served to properly motivate
      the hero. Moreover, Dumbledore might have already pondered on the
      comprising solution that Severus left the younger students alone,
      yet still was abusive towards students in their fifth year and
      above, for quite some time. There might even be Prophecies about
      that as well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wanted to bang his head against his desk. He still had a
      problem accepting that <em class="calibre8">Time</em> and <em class="calibre8">the Universe</em>
      worked that way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">On a positive note,</em> Slytherin said, <em class="calibre8">Severus'
      above-average level of intelligence and magical power might also
      come from Lord Rasputin. Otherwise, he wouldn't get the chance to
      become the first wizard to go to the Moon, and possibly bypass the
      Interdict of Electronics and the Interdict of Merlin. The personal
      happiness of one particular human being that we happen to know,
      plus that of a handful of Rasputin's other descendants, plus that
      of the former students taught by Severus, is just a small price to
      pay to save every sapient being on the planet, isn't it? Don't
      forget, our parents' lives have been sacrificed for this
      goal.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the reasonable parts of Harry accepted Slytherin's logic,
      yet he all of a sudden understood the reason Merlin constructed the
      Hall of Prophecy, so that the ones involved in Prophecies would be
      aware of their fate: <em class="calibre8">it was simply too sad to be manipulated by
      Prophecies your whole life without knowing anything.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's Slytherin side split into two parts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin Number One sneered: <em class="calibre8">hey, are you sure that your
      desire to let Severus know isn't because you see the similarity
      between Severus and ourselves? Dumbledore must have felt guilty
      about manipulating us to the level of smashing our pet rock, yet
      that good man was wise enough to keep his mouth shut until his
      departure. We should do the same.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Hufflepuff and Gryffindor began their protest, Slytherin
      Number Two offered an effective counter argument: <em class="calibre8">what if
      Severus runs into a Russian witch, or a female magical creature
      while he is running all over the former USSR? I can't see how
      starting a family under the influence of Rasputin's magic could be
      good for our mission.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Moreover, there is a decent chance that Shakhov would have
      some notes from Rasputin. Do you want to imagine what Severus might
      find out while that man was</em> on the Moon<em class="calibre8">?</em> Ravenclaw
      added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin Number One conceded: <em class="calibre8">I don't think Severus is
      sharp enough to connect himself with Rasputin if he comes across
      something on how to curse your own bloodline, though it is possible
      that Shakhov might have left a note or a sketch to be watchful for
      witches and wizards with a particular look. OK, just the Rasputin
      part, then.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry breathed in, and breathed out. "We have to notify
      Professor Snape about this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's note:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan Rickman was the actor who played Severus Snape in <em class="calibre8">Harry
      Potter</em> movie series. His performance in <em class="calibre8">Rasputin: Dark
      Servant of Destiny</em> won him a Golden Globe. My fabrication of
      the kinship between Severus and Rasputin here was not only a part
      of the theme on the pursuit of eternal life (through good,
      not-so-good, and evil means), but also a tribute to Alan Rickman,
      who passed away in 2016.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
