<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 58 ST15, Time Pressure II, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 58: SpaceTravel Pt XV, Time Pressure II</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I want to thank Dan for beta-ing this
      chapter.</p>
<hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">5:40 pm, August 3rd, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry observed Severus carefully as the black-haired man's
      knuckles whitened on his wand, his black eyes glittered, and his
      face twitched and un-twitched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stella on Severus' shoulder looked both confused and tense. She
      looked like she wanted to coo a comforting song, but was silenced
      by a glance from her master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes, who had been summoned by Harry upon Mad-Eye's request,
      stopped eating chocolate frogs scattered on the small table the
      moment Mad-Eye pulled out Rasputin's photo and Severus began to
      tense up. He looked back and forth with his black beady eyes
      between Mad-Eye and Severus, unable to grasp the rising emotion
      from the master of the other phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could feel there was magic building up around the man each
      time his cheeks jumped, and it was like water rising, rising, and
      rising, like the gushing Congo River in the rainy season held back
      by nothing but a thin string pretending to be a dam. The magic
      didn't exactly go wild, but <em class="calibre8">not going wild</em> somehow became
      more frightening by the second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The magical fire burning in the fireplace in Harry's headquarter
      dimmed and quivered, shuddering as if it, too, was afraid of what
      might happen if the black-haired wizard lost control over his
      magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had experienced Severus' emotional unrest in close range
      before, and he had told Mad-Eye to allow Severus time to calm down
      by himself. However, this time, the magic tensing up around Severus
      was way more frightening than the time Harry unwisely told Severus
      why Lily did not forgive him, but offered James Potter forgiveness
      generously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry racked his brain, trying to figure out something truly
      wise to say. None of Harry's mentally prepared scenarios matched
      this level of intensity - the magic in air began to resemble that
      radiating from Dumbledore when the ancient wizard was in his
      righteous fury. And apparently, Stella couldn't comfort her master
      who did not desire comforting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stole a glance at Hermione, who was definitely better at
      this sort of thing than Harry, but it seemed that the
      Girl-Who-Revived didn't have much to say, either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lad -" Mad-Eye began in a sympathetic tone that was quite rare
      for this rough auror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Shut, up</em>!" Severus seethed through his teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye's lips closed at once, and almost before Harry could
      realize, Mad-Eye's normal eye widened, and his wand was already
      pointing toward Severus -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry could do something to stop Mad-Eye and Severus from
      killing each other - or rather stop Severus from killing Mad-Eye,
      the black-haired man grabbed Stella, and vanished in a burst of
      flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't think it would a good idea for Severus to be alone,
      going who knows where in this emotional state, but he didn't know
      if getting someone to console Severus would be a good idea, either,
      for the man might not want his godson or his newly-found best
      friend to know about his family tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This is just the Rasputin stuff. We have not even begun with
      the other Prophecies, such as the one with the Potions textbook.
      Have you all seen why Dumbledore kept his mouth shut yet? End your
      useless moral dilemma, and keep your secrets from now on.</em>
      Seethed Slytherin. <em class="calibre8">Oh, and by the way, with Severus'
      intelligence, he might also figure out that he had been manipulated
      by Dumbledore his whole life on a deeper level than he had known.
      Guess what, he might even figure this out during his trip to the
      Moon, and he might conveniently destroy the scrolls containing
      magic on how to save Dumbledore, and Obliviate himself.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He wouldn't do that! He has a phoenix!</em> Protested
      Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin scoffed: <em class="calibre8">yeah, why are you so sure that Stella
      won't be convinced by her master, and think that it is for the
      greater good? Fawkes didn't leave Dumbledore when he purposefully
      sacrificed our parents.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Harry noticed something: Mad-Eye pointed his wand toward
      his own lips, and cast something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew magical children had accidental magical outbursts,
      but Severus was too old for accidental magic to seal Mad-Eye's
      lips, or was he?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had always wondered how magic worked. Most spells used in
      western wizarding society nowadays were in magical pseudo-Latin,
      while spells taught in magical schools in Asia were in words
      resembling their own native languages. Therefore, though within a
      certain pseudo-language system, the exact wording and wand
      movements did matter, a particular language was not required for
      magic to serve certain functions, such as stunning someone. Now it
      seemed that Severus could seal Mad-Eye's lips just by a strong
      desire without words in the magical pseudo-Latin that the ex-Head
      of Slytherin had been trained to use.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If not for Fawkes still liking the lad, I would be sure that he
      is occupied by Rasputin. Severus shouldn't gain so much power so
      quickly even if Shakhov and Grindelwald are mentoring him together.
      I could only somewhat verify Perenelle Flamel's body, though; I am
      not sure if the heap of ash was actually Master Nicolas Flamel..."
      Mad-Eye's sound trailed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When first hearing of the news on the condition of the Flamels'
      "bodies", Harry had thought that was because there was actually
      only one Flamel. However, there might be another possibility:
      <em class="calibre8">Lady Baba Yaga and Perenelle had really loved each other, so
      the Dark Lady decided to quit her career, and took on the identity
      of Nicolas Flamel. And while dueling Lord Voldemort and/or his
      pawn, the Dark Lady managed to escape, leaving the pretense that
      there was actually one Flamel. And that was why the senior Tom
      Riddle thought Perenelle, as a teenage girl, managed to kill Lady
      Baba Yaga.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">If Lady Baba Yaga is still alive…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-That explained a lot, actually. Lady Baba Yaga probably has
      some fondness for Hogwarts, so she might kill the acromantulas,
      plus the dark wizard behind the acromantulas. Moreover, she might
      teach Lucius the advance shielding charm, not as being particularly
      kind, but in the same way that she parceled out secrets and
      powerful magic to Dumbledore when she saw that Lord Voldemort was
      winning. Just this time, she parceled out one of her secrets to all
      of us, and Lucius was just a conduit.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Come to think of it now, the knowledge that the secret of
      Grindelwald's invincibility and the role of the Death Stick might
      be from Lady Baba Yaga as well. I might have wronged Severus on
      this.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-And the matter with Severus. Lady Baba Yaga might want to
      raise someone again, the same way she raised Dumbledore. And within
      our small circle of conspiracy, Severus is probably the only one
      who might have the potential to hold off Voldemort for a while
      before Hermione or I gain enough power that she could understand.
      And since Lady Baba Yaga is not arrogant, she might consider me to
      be too clever, and Hermione to be too moral.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry heaved a sigh. This was probably the second time that a
      really powerful Dark Wizard decided against taking him as an
      apprentice. He couldn't even tell if this was a good sign.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Harry's Slytherin side and Hufflepuff side began to
      debate whether he should let Mad-Eye know about Lady Baba Yaga, a
      bright light ball appeared in the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the ex-Head of Slytherin's tired voice, the patronus said:
      "Mr. Potter, please let me in your place by phoenix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Parts of Harry were relieved that he got a good excuse to
      postpone a decision for a difficult problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly waved his wand, and allowed Severus to come back.
      He was glad that Severus managed to calm himself down within, err,
      six hours or less.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flame later, Severus was back in Harry's headquarters. His new
      expensive robes were littered with spots of mud, his black eyes
      were slightly bloodshot, the wrinkles around his eyes might have
      grown a bit, and his face was otherwise blank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before anyone could say anything, the black-haired man took out
      a black metal box from his pouch, and handed it to Harry. "Mr.
      Potter, the box contains locks of hair from my father, my maternal
      grandmother, and my paternal grandfather. Oh, well, at least I
      think the bodies in their respective graves are my ancestors'.
      Please run your scientific test with them, and see if Mad-Eye's
      theory is true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded gravely to the man in distress, and asked: "Is
      there anything I can do for you, Professor Snape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus looked as if he wanted to give Mad-Eye a deadly glare,
      but in his currently exhausted status, it was just a roll of his
      eyes. Severus sat down on the sofa, and said resentfully: "You may
      ask Mad-Eye to show some respect by not digging up graves. And by
      the way, if any of the remaining Lestranges outside prison alert
      the authorities about the burglary in their family cemetery, you
      know which Auror to send to conduct this so-called investigation.
      If I am not mistaken, Mad-Eye probably has already run DNA tests in
      several Muggle labs. However, ever since I knew about the role
      father's bones play in a revival ritual, I did some cover-up on the
      graves of my recent ancestors, and I am glad my work was not
      completely wasted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gasped at the implication, and her brown eyes darted to
      Harry as if pleading with him to do something, or to prevent
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't remember exactly whether tampering with one's
      ancestors' graves called for blood or death challenges in the
      etiquettes of the Most Ancient Houses, but to tamper with fake
      graves might not require such revenges.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Or maybe Mad-Eye did find the true graves, and he just did
      a great cover-up, so Severus wouldn't have an good excuse to kill
      him for the offence.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-On another thought, maybe Severus did find out that Mad-Eye
      tampered with the true graves, and he just pretended that he didn't
      figure this out, so that he would have an excuse not to kill
      Mad-Eye for family honor - probably not wanting to cause world
      destruction, or to make it easier to escape punishment after
      assassinating Mad-Eye. Remember, Severus didn't say it in
      Parseltongue.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Oh, great. Now the most powerful wizard in our conspiracy
      has found a justified reason to kill the second-most powerful
      one.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhere else, a non-plotting Harry still felt pretty sorry for
      Severus, for Harry would feel upset if anyone tampered with James
      and Lily's monuments, let alone digging up their graves without
      Harry's consent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin tried to soothe Harry: <em class="calibre8">hey, we know that is what
      Mad-Eye has to do. Mad-Eye would definitely ask us if he needs
      something from our parents' bodies, and he would also ask Minerva
      for similar matters. Plus, Severus himself and Mad-Eye had put
      interesting stuff into the supposed tomb of You-Know-Who's father.
      Tom Riddle, Sr., who was probably innocent, lost protection to his
      calm in death because of his son's conducts. We considered that act
      completely justified. Similarly, Severus joined the Death Eaters by
      his own free will - we have not asked Severus how many people he
      killed before he defected to the Light, have we? By the same logic,
      the tampering of Severus' ancestors' graves is just an unfortunate
      collateral damage as well. Back me up here, Hufflepuff?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff was almost in tears, Gryffindor was in dilemma, while
      Ravenclaw argued that trying to figure out whether your ally was
      under a curse did not constitute as good a reason as trying to stop
      a dark lord from crawling back to life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Hermione in Harry's mind or the real Hermione could say
      anything, Severus continued: "More importantly, I think
      <em class="calibre8">Time</em> is pressuring us. We really need to speed up our
      space travel schedule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The possible descendant of a true seer sighed, and said to the
      Boy-Who-Lived and the Girl-Who-Revived in bewilderment: "If the
      school schedule is similar to the schedule when I was here, the
      pre-semester staff meeting should be held within two weeks, by
      which time the professors for the next school-year should be
      determined. Minerva is begging Lupin to continue teaching Defense
      class, and she is committing a slow suicide by teaching
      Transfiguration and being the Headmistress at the same time. In the
      meanwhile, we have a list of extraordinarily qualified witches and
      wizards - including Lord Grindelwald - applying for various staff
      positions. I wouldn't be too surprised if some mishap happens to
      any of our current staff members before the next semester starts.
      Even if we are lucky enough to keep all the staff of last
      school-year, Mr. Potter, I do not want to imagine the scene when
      Minerva meets Trelawney after the summer break, let alone the many
      occasions that our beloved Divination Professor would have meals in
      the Great Hall. And as I now reflect on it, Mr. Potter, Albus might
      have been actively preventing you from knowing more
      Prophecies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Trelawney's hallow icy voice from Harry's first year
      began to echo in Harry's mind: ""<em class="calibre8">HE IS COMING</em>, <em class="calibre8">THE ONE
      WHO WILL TEAR APART THE VERY -</em>" And then, Dumbledore dragged
      Trelawney away in mid-sentence by phoenix fire. And there were also
      the words in Dumbledore's letters confirming that Harry should not
      learn more Prophecies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And this time, the presence of the new phoenix owner himself
      might trigger a Prophecy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed inwardly. "Yes, we definitely should speed up."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
