<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 35 Return of Salazar Slytherin, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 35: The True Return of Lord Salazar Slytherin</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank Kuilin, my beta.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">4:29 pm, July 14th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While packing his things for his upcoming trip for Ukraine the
      next morning in his suitcase-bedroom, a sudden sense of approaching
      danger prompted Severus to reach for his wand, and to activate the
      defensive magical items on himself. However, before Severus' bright
      blue Protego Vitamaxima shield was properly raised, a red bolt of
      light shattered the forming blue hemisphere and hit Severus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Better, but not enough." A comment came from an invisible old
      man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a wave of daze associated with memory charms, Severus began
      to recognize the speaker, for the eleventh time. The dark-haired
      wizard swayed a little bit, grunted inside, and remembered where he
      was planning to go this very afternoon: South Africa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Because even Lord Salazar Slytherin found it was almost
      impossible to sneak into the Room of Requirement and use the Stone
      without anyone knowing. Hooray, Mad-Eye!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Am I passable for the role?" Salazar revealed himself in front
      of Severus, and asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus noticed that Salazar even managed to slip some Afrikaans
      accent into his South African English, and was secretly astonished
      by the ancient lord for his amazing speed at learning new
      languages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">At the age of one hundred and fifty, yet he learned the
      simple verbal parts of a new language within two to three weeks!
      Well, perhaps this isn't particularly surprising for someone like
      Salazar Slytherin, or Albus Dumbledore. Those lords all master
      hundreds of languages. I have such a long way to go.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The linguistic question aside, Severus examined his ancient
      ancestor's appearance closely, and determined that Salazar's
      clothes tonight was passable for a dejected fifty-something South
      Africa wizard clinging desperately on old glories: outdated
      wizarding robes that were a bit too tight, made with fine material,
      yet the elegance of the robes was marred by signs of wear and tear;
      dragon-hide boots that had been fashionable some twenty years ago,
      now spotted with slouchy attempts to magically repair the patches
      of ruptured leather; an ancient-looking snake shaped brooch that
      was carefully cleaned, which could easily be considered as a family
      heirloom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus silently commented: <em class="calibre8">nowadays,</em> <em class="calibre8">what kind of
      wizard wears brooch besides one Lucius Malfoy? But this suits the
      snobbish character Salazar is going to play quite well. By the way,
      certain characteristics of Salazar suits his role quite well,
      too.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus hissed, "<em class="calibre8">Yess.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar nodded, grabbed Severus, applied concealing charms on
      both of them, and activated a portkey that could only be made by
      someone with higher security clearance level than the current
      headmistress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A portkey and several Apparitions later, Severus and Salazar
      landed at the supposed residence of one Claudius Gamp, a
      laughingstock in the South African wizarding society after Severus
      sabotaged his final grand show in his haughty and pathetic
      life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Around this time of 1992, the Ministry of Magic of South Africa
      welcomed its first black minister, plus eleven more black high-rank
      officials. A number of white wizards were quite unhappy about this
      change in the predominately white ministry, and about similar
      changes that was taking place in the Muggle side of the country.
      Amongst the racist wizards was one Claudius Gamp. Although the Gamp
      family began to go downhill over thirty years ago, the last Scion
      of the Gamp House still reasoned that his failure was entirely due
      to the rise of black wizards. After imbibing too much alcohol into
      his system in a bar with a dozen or so other white supremacists,
      Claudius announced to the cheering crowd that he would sacrifice
      his life in a ritual to bring South Africa back to its course. When
      Claudius staggered out of the bar, Severus secretly followed him,
      interrupted the sacrificial ritual which, according to Severus'
      estimation, would only blow up the Gamp House and things within a
      mile. Besides saving possibly several hundred Muggles in the nearby
      village, Severus mercifully helped Claudius to think that he had
      accomplished his plan, while he actually only managed to achieve
      part of it - which was, of course, the suicide part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the third day, Claudius returned to that bar in the form of a
      brown pebble in Severus' box, while polyjuiced Severus was mocked
      by Claudius' obnoxious friends, who were too cowardice to actually
      do anything themselves, yet felt perfectly entitled to jeer the one
      who had claimed to do something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Maybe they are just in need of a dark lord with passable
      motivation skills to actually start something.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus made a sarcastic mental note to himself, and staged a
      spectacular fist fight with Claudius' friends for being insulted.
      After Severus landed several of the highly incompetent wizards into
      Cape Town Magical Hospital for bruises, Severus successfully made
      sure that the poor brown pebble in his box lost his remaining
      social ties.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nowadays, Severus just needed to occasionally sell some of
      Claudius' old clothes and family collections, and to place some
      large owl orders of Firewhiskey afterwards to make this identity
      alive in the eyes of the magical world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say, it took Severus quite some efforts to find and
      obtain this convincing false identity, yet the powerful magic that
      Salazar already gave him hints on really paid off for Severus' best
      cover. Moreover, if it were not for the ancient-looking scrolls
      fabricated by the authentic medieval wizard, and the hints he left
      in Severus' mind, Severus and Mad-Eye might still be busy trying
      various wild ideas proposed by the Boy-Who-Lived in front of the
      Mirror this very day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus did hold some small grudges toward Salazar over one of
      his hints. Severus knew that Salazar only left him the idea that he
      should try to probe the procedures of people being transported to
      the Hospital. Salazar had never indicated in any way or form that
      Severus should endanger Draco in doing so. However, Severus still
      ended up giving Mad-Eye a chance to do things to Draco. Severus
      knew the young Malfoy brat needed to encounter some real danger to
      get rid of his illusion and contempt of false safety created by
      pureblood security protocols, yet Severus should use one of his own
      "kill-a-pureblood-creatively" methods, instead of handing Mad-Eye
      the opportunity that the old Auror had definitely yearned for in
      the past one hundred years. Severus knew it was unfair to blame
      Salazar for the affair, which only proved what a horrible godfather
      Severus was, yet Severus couldn't help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In front of his clear failure as a godfather, Severus didn't
      want to put too much emphasis on the bit of success he had. Severus
      managed to slip a note to his subconscious thoughts before Salazar
      temporarily blocked his memory by the end of their second meeting,
      in which he told himself that he needed to teach Draco how to
      become an animagus very quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few days later, although several hundred pieces of undisclosed
      gold donated to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement ensured
      that Draco would never be charged for the offense, the new Lord
      Malfoy had become a criminal in the eyes of magical Britain, for
      the offense of being an illegal animagus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus amused himself each time he thought of his godson's
      animagus form: <em class="calibre8">one can hardly believe how attached that boy is
      to his snake-ish Father - the boy with a name of dragon and wyvern
      symbols on his pajamas became a snakedragon, a hybrid between a
      wyvern and a snake! And the endless not-so-subtle gloats from
      Lucius, simply unbearable! I wonder, if I should thank Merlin that
      Draco's animagus form doesn't have blue stripes. True, this rare
      form of animagus did solve the problem of Parseltongue, snakedragon
      hide and scales are resistant to a lot of curses, its fangs contain
      deadly poisons similar to that of basilisks, the body is resistant
      to most poisons and infections, and it can fly pretty fast, yet the
      twenty-foot long creature with shining light-gold colored scales is
      hardly any form of hiding.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Hopeless Malfoy show-offs!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moreover, Severus could hardly suppress his smile each time he
      thought of the snakedragon's funny Parseltongue accent due to his
      dragon part, where a "<em class="calibre8">yesss</em>" would become a
      "<em class="calibre8">yesshh</em>", and "<em class="calibre8">ssit</em>" would turn into
      "<em class="calibre8">sshhit</em>".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed that Salazar had not realized that neither the Malfoys
      nor Severus were natural Parselmouths, and Severus didn't plan to
      do anything that might lessen Lord Slytherin's grandfatherly
      thoughts on the younger Malfoy – after Salazar learned that Draco
      couldn't even master ancient Greek, the old lord blamed Lucius for
      Draco's poor accent and substandard linguistic education in
      general, and he had planned to teach Draco himself when he had
      time, which worked exactly according to Severus' plan. And for some
      strange reason that Severus didn't really want to ponder upon,
      after discovering that Severus was not a stutter in modern English,
      Salazar also blamed Lucius for not providing Severus proper private
      linguistic education, and began to teach Severus the correct ways
      to move his tongues and vocal cords in Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was sure poor old Lucius would understand. To be honest,
      the imaginary scene of a teeth-gritting Lucius reluctantly thanking
      the unkempt half-blood for getting his son a great tutor offered
      Severus endless entertainment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Entertainment and annoyance that were commonly associated with
      the Malfoys aside, Severus knew the advantages he gained from
      Salazar all required payment. And if Severus wanted Salazar to
      continue his grandfatherly feelings towards Draco, Severus probably
      needed to pay for Draco's share as well, in which providing Salazar
      with a proper false identity was the least he could do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For their plan to work, Salazar needed more than a false
      identity, proper garments and phrasing in commonly used sentences.
      Salazar needed to be able to act the role of an obnoxious twentieth
      century wizard, and that had proved to be the difficult part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizarding world had moved slower than the Muggle world
      during the past several hundred years, however, there was still no
      way that Severus and Plumpton's portrait could teach Salazar
      everything about the twentieth century within a few days. Severus
      could make sure that Salazar wasn't too surprised when he
      encountered a wizarding radio or a magical moving photo, and the
      ancient lord was quick in picking up the proper use of current
      dining utensils, yet it was impossible for Severus to introduce
      something such as toilet tissues that was so common for him that he
      didn't even consider the need for explanation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This rolled parchment is so soft and þynne. What skin is it
      made from? Why do you put such things in the toilet?" Salazar had
      once asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus began to explain that "þynne" was pronounced as
      "thin" these days, and since current Muggles and wizards used
      chopped wood to make paper, paper became so cheap that people even
      used paper for bathroom needs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting. I have heard -" Salazar paused, then hissed,
      "<em class="calibre8">what iss the current pronunciation for Chinesse?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Here was when Severus drew out a map and named every major
      country in the world to Salazar. Then one question led to another,
      and Severus ended up explaining the prominent wizarding schools
      founded after Salazar's time, drew out his collection of
      <em class="calibre8">Uagadou, A History,</em> and showed Salazar the moving pictures
      of the headmaster and professors during Claudius' school years in
      Uagadou School of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, and the admission letters to the school are by a dream
      messenger. As far as I have heard, the dream messenger put a token
      into your hand while you were sleeping some night between your
      eleventh birthday and the start date of the school year." Severus
      showed Salazar the well-kept token he found at the Gamp House.
      "Moreover, both English and French were used as teaching languages
      in Uagadou, and blacks and whites were separated into different
      classes back when you were a student."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus twisted his lips in disapproval, and continued, "Culture
      wise, it is noteworthy that although we British abolished slavery
      almost two hundred years ago, and Shacklebolt is even considered as
      a Noble and Most Ancient House, it is not the case in every part of
      the world, especially, not in Africa. I suppose, the adoption of
      Muggle racism among the white wizards migrating to Africa was
      somewhat understandable, because they needed some kind of moral
      justifications for colonialism, and few people wanted to consider
      themselves as the bad guys. Going back to your education, since you
      were educated in the White-English House, in which the majority of
      your classmates were white, - except one Japanese and two Indians,
      who were honorary whites, - the majority of your supposedly
      classmates were descendants of British colonists. The majority of
      them were only racist, not blood purists; since you were both a
      racist and a blood purist, and never hesitated before voicing your
      viewpoints, you were not that popular at school. Here is Claudius'
      school yearbook - lucky that they have these in Uagadou, otherwise,
      it's hard to find the names and faces. Oh, and this girl, Claudius
      still kept some love letters from her, let me get the
      letter..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took Severus four five-hour time-turned sessions to cover the
      basics that Salazar might encounter en route to the Hospital as
      Claudius Gamp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, the two ex-Heads of Slytherin House spent quite some time
      in and around Cape Town Magical Hospital to observe how patients
      were diagnosed and transported to the only real Hospital in the
      world. Things there appeared to be quite similar to what Severus
      observed one year ago: the hostility between whites and blacks, and
      the rift between wizards of British descendance and that of Dutch
      descendance, had made South African wizarding society extremely
      convenient for outside wizards with unspeakable motives. The safety
      rules were intentionally badly made, and even more poorly observed;
      communication between different departments in the hospital and the
      ministry was somewhere between highly ineffective and nonexistence;
      English-speaking wizards and Afrikaans-speaking wizards stabbed
      each other's back even if the very act might result in their own
      injuries as well; white officials who thought they were soon to be
      replaced by blacks could be easily bought, while the newly elected
      black officials didn't hold any better ethics than their white
      colleagues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two five-hour sessions later, Lord Slytherin announced his
      conclusion: "A nation so divided can easily be conquered, even by
      you, Severus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus wasn't so sure this was meant to be a compliment.
      However, there was something quite worrisome that he needed to tell
      Salazar: "<em class="calibre8">Be warned, Muggless in thiss nation have
      masss-ssacrifice v-weaponss, ass you call them.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What?!</em>" The aged lord hissed in utter disbelief.
      "<em class="calibre8">If the Muggless run their government like thiss, we sshall all
      be desstroyed by the weaponss!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus then explained a piece of good news: "Other Muggle
      nations, such as the United States and Russia, are doing one good
      thing: they are pressuring South Africa to give up their nuclear
      weapons. From what I recently read, the South Africans are
      cooperating, or at least, they seem so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should make them so. From what we know, the wizards
      protecting the Muggle officials should be easily bought or
      deceived." Lord Slytherin decided. "Is there any other Muggle
      nation that can be easily disarmed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smiled a sly smile: "Ukraine, and some other former
      Soviet states."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar raised one eyebrow, and smirked, "<em class="calibre8">Sseveruss, you are
      truly my desscendant.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hence, Severus gained himself a very powerful ally for his trip
      to the former Soviet states, that was, of course, if their plan for
      today would be successful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus eyed his ancient ancestor, and nervously watched as the
      aged lord downed several bottles of age-reducing potion that made
      him look as if he was in his early thirties. Although the
      age-reducing potion couldn't really put youth back to organs and
      joints that had deteriorated over time, it could safely change
      one's appearances. And since this was one of the most commonly used
      potions among the idiots who transfigured themselves, it was OK for
      Salazar to have some as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the second step, the original Lord Salazar Slytherin needed
      to look like a stupid wizard who wanted his looks to resemble
      Salazar Slytherin. Since polyjuice potion would definitely be one
      of the first things Mad-Eye might check for in the Hospital, the
      two ex-Heads of Slytherin House didn't plan to use polyjuice potion
      to make Salazar resemble Claudius. Instead, they used non-free
      human transfiguration, and they needed to intentionally make the
      work sloppy, such as changing Salazar's hair color to somewhere
      between brown and black, his face unevenly pointed, and several
      scars and moles on the original Claudius' body badly masked. With
      the combined efforts of Salazar and Severus, this was easily
      done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Third, since neither Salazar nor Severus trusted the healers in
      the emergency room in Cape Town Magical Hospital, they agreed that
      free transfigurations on the vital organs and joints should be only
      conducted by themselves. After practicing free human
      transfiguration extensively on Lucius, Severus was relatively good
      at this. Unfortunately, they needed to make the work sloppy in the
      eyes of the inexperienced. Therefore, during their previous
      five-hour session, Severus taught everything he knew about free
      human transfiguration to Salazar, and left the practice to be
      "sloppy" part to the aged lord. For what was worse, since they
      couldn't appear to be too powerful, the time span that the free
      transfigurations could sustain was limited to one and a half
      hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus glanced at his mechanical watch, which showed "4: 58",
      and nodded to Salazar. The two ex-Heads of Slytherin House quickly
      started their free transfigurations, with Severus doing the first
      round of transfiguration, while Salazar checking Severus' work, and
      making modifications.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">About fifteen minutes later, they were ready to move to the Cape
      Town Magical Hospital.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus disillusioned himself, pulled on Salazar's invisibility
      cloak, applied several one-sided sound and smell concealing charms,
      then Apparated to Cape Town Magical Hospital, where Salazar would
      separately Apparate to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In front of the hospital's recipient desk, Salazar proudly
      announced to the waiting crowd in lines: "Today, the world will
      witness the return of Lord Salazar Slytherin, the greatest wizard
      after Merlin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone looked at Salazar as if he was mad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Salazar waved a page he teared from <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts, A
      History</em>, which showed the sculpture of Salazar Slytherin in
      the Slytherin dungeons. "Don't I look exactly like the great
      wizard?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The crowd sniggered, and started not-exactly whispering to each
      other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Another standard idiot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Merlin, is this what we get after they announced that
      nobody can look exactly as any other living person? So they choose
      the dead ones?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I heard quite some witches wanted to look like some woman
      named Marilyn Monroe - is the original Ms. Monroe a member of the
      House of Monroe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mom, look at his hair. Is Salazar Slytherin's hair half black,
      half brown?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, this one is entertaining, at least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The receptionist rolled her eyes, and asked, "What is your name,
      sir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Salazar Slytherin." The ancient lord told the truth that nobody
      believed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is your legal name, and how long will your transfiguration
      last, sir?" The receptionist couldn't help but rolled her eyes
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar answered: "Well, you can temporarily call me Claudius
      Gamp," and he quickly added, "I would soon change the names on all
      the papers to Salazar Slytherin. And, a great wizard such as I can
      make my free transfiguration last longer than any other living
      wizard in the world! "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The receptionist noted down "Claudius Gamp" on the register
      book, and signaled for the emergency room. This surely wasn't the
      first self-transfigured idiot she had seen, and the transfiguration
      skills of those dimwits usually didn't last long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, Salazar was rushed into the emergency room,
      and the chuckling healers there began to apply free transfiguration
      per Salazar's request.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here, my hair needs to be all black, and my skin should be
      fair." Salazar demanded. "Oh, and my face should be more pointed in
      my jaw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the whole while that Salazar pretended to be an idiot,
      Severus invisibly patched up all the imperfect transfigurations the
      healers didn't observe, or were too lazy to correct.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fifteen minutes later, the head healer announced: "You are good
      to go, Mr., ha, Salazar Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Salazar was then handed a portkey to Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus observed that the healers didn't obtain any biological
      samples from Salazar, or any other patient sent to Azkaban. Since
      the <em class="calibre8">International Regulations Against Abuse of Healing
      Powers</em> was yet to pass, and this worked temporarily to
      Severus' advantage, Severus wasn't going to complain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew that hair and blood would be collected by healers
      in Azkaban, and again by healers in Hogwarts. Severus had heard
      something about Muggle DNA identification technology. Moreover,
      even Severus knew a ton of evil things that you could do with
      willingly donated blood, not to mention Lord Salazar Slytherin.
      Therefore, both ex-Heads of Slytherin House had decided to go safe,
      and to only submit Claudius' samples to the people in the
      Hospital.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Salazar swirled and disappeared, Severus could only hope that
      Salazar could really use his so-called magician's tricks to swap
      the samples from Salazar's own hair and blood to what they got from
      Claudius' body. Otherwise, well, they would have quite some busy
      work to do with the security system of the temporary storage room
      in Azkaban - if you were one of the Founders of Hogwarts, the
      security system in Hogwarts was relatively easy to tamper with,
      which Salazar had already done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If what Severus and Salazar learned about the securities in
      Azkaban were right, everything on Salazar would be taken away, and
      he needed to change into something Muggles would recognize as
      restrictive clothing for the insane. Then, Salazar had to drink
      some sleeping potions, and would be hit several times with multiple
      versions of sleep and binding hexes. To counter this problem,
      Salazar showed Severus a Version 2.0 of the animagus
      transfiguration, where he could transfigure any part of his body
      into his animagus form. The digestive system of a basilisk could
      handle most potions like a breeze, and the scales of the monster
      snake were resistant to most hexes that were not intended to cause
      permanent harm. In case that the sleep hexes were to hit Salazar's
      head, the old lord would have to use pure magic to absorb the
      hexes, and made it seem like the hexes had been effective. Severus
      and Salazar had tried this part several times, and it proved that
      the all the sleep hexes the two ex-Heads of Slytherin knew could be
      absorbed by Salazar's magic alone. Since non wizard in Azkaban and
      in the Hospital was known to be much stronger than Severus - to be
      honest, there weren't that many in this fading age of magic in the
      whole world, - they were relatively safe in this regard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next, it would come to the question that whether Salazar's
      disguise would fool the diagnostic spells and artefacts used by
      wizards in Azkaban - they had tried the ones people used in the
      Room of Requirement, and the answer was yes. Severus had tried
      everything he knew, and everything Salazar taught him, including
      two spells that Severus could barely managed to cast, and the most
      likely result was there was nothing that couldn't be explained by
      "the standard idiot" statement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Salazar would be portkeyed to the Room of Requirement,
      checked, sampled, treated with the Stone, and sampled again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If what Severus heard was right, anyone with malignant purposes
      to the Stone were to be found out at any point in Azkaban or
      Hogwarts, the standard protocol was to knock him or her down and
      arrest him immediately, and then use the Stone to fix the
      perpetrator in a greatly weaken state, such as a quadruple amputee
      without a tongue. Severus supposed that the last part was a rumor
      intentionally spread by Mad-Eye, for such treatment was clearly
      against the Boy-Who-Lived's moral standards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyway, if Salazar's disguise was ever revealed, the ancient
      lord planned to escape with some Version 2.0 of conjured Floo fire
      - which the ancient lord chose not to explain it to Severus, nor
      had he revealed any other escape plans which he surely had. Salazar
      told Severus, he would then directly enter the Room of Requirement
      through some loophole the ancient lord would fix soon after, rob
      the Stone, and publicly announce his return. The only problem that
      Salazar saw with this alternative approach was that it might put
      Severus into a difficult position, while Severus had the bad
      feeling that the public announcement might somehow lead to a
      world-ending catastrophe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, all Severus could do was to wait and pray in one of his
      secret fall-back locations in Florida. Severus dearly hoped that he
      wouldn't have to initiate the final back-up plan, which involved a
      lock of Salazar's hair, and a very special locket. Salazar claimed
      that he made the locket with the sacrifice of an enchanted hat, but
      his statement was made in English, instead of Parseltongue. Severus
      didn't have any immediate plan to figure out whether there was a
      person under the hat, for example, a certain Italian dark wizard
      named Giuliani. For this reason, although Salazar had said in
      Parseltongue that the "<em class="calibre8">bad luck for offspringss</em>" side
      effect was a rumor he himself made up, Severus wasn't that high on
      the promise the aged lord made that he would make Severus a really
      improved horcrux as reward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus was counting the seconds on his mechanical watch,
      when the watch said 6:14:05, a popping sound of a portkey announced
      the true return of Lord Salazar Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fifteen minutes later, or one hour and fourty-five minutes ago,
      in his suitcase-bedroom, Severus was packing his stuff for his
      upcoming trip for Ukraine the next morning. Somehow, he had a
      strange sense of true triumph, as if he had outsmarted Mad-Eye, or
      maybe someone or something even greater.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's note:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Has anyone figured out what my Horcrux Version 3.0 requires?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As I was writing this chapter, I heard the sad news that Alan
      Rickman, the actor who played the role of Professor Severus Snape
      brilliantly, had passed away. RIP, Alan. I hope someone has made a
      Version 3.0 Horcrux for you, so that we can still hear your
      unmistakable voices and watch your excellent performances after we
      figure out how to make a Stone.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
