<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 36 The Bicentennial House-elf, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 36: The Bicentennial House-elf</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">4:43 pm, July 14th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus silently recounted things that he might need for his
      upcoming trip to Ukraine, and wondered where his sense of having
      forgotten something had come from. The black-haired man shook his
      head, and determined that it might have been caused by the many
      memory charms that the Boy-Who-Lived demanded for his various
      secrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-In the name of Merlin, not even Albus was this secretive!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sighed, and strode toward the fireplace in his temporary
      residency.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus was working on the security charms on the fireplace,
      his temporary roommate, Auror Bahry, commented from behind Severus,
      "Malfoy's place again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And your junior female colleagues rather miss Lady Malfoy's
      cookies, I gather?" Severus replied sarcastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Auror who had served the Department of Magical Law
      Enforcement for one hundred and one years gave a grunt. "Give it a
      break, you git! The girls hadn't been eating much of anything ever
      since Mad-Eye caught a hold on them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smirked, threw a pinch of Floo powder into the flames,
      and said, "Hogwarts Fireplace 394, one-time passcode: 022146."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the black-haired man swirled into the Floo network, he
      silently admitted to himself: crazy as some of the Boy-Who-Lived's
      ideas might be, this suggestion of his, that every fireplace should
      be assigned with a random number and set with a password, is indeed
      quite brilliant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Severus stepped out from the fireplace in his old office,
      his godson was already waiting for him. The blond boy seemed to be
      under more stress than usual today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Draco can't be worrying about me going to the former Soviet
      states, can he? If that is the case, well, it is both touching and…
      Merlin, the new Lord Malfoy shouldn't be so soft.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anything you want to talk about, Draco?" Severus omitted the
      courtesies and asked directly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Godfather." Draco seemed to be a bit uneasy, "Would you
      apply some privacy spells?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded, and started to apply his common set of
      protection and privacy spells in the office-turned-living room,
      while explaining each of them in details to the blond boy.
      "Revelio. This is a more general form of Homenum Revelio and
      Specialis Revelio. Homenum Revelio, as you can guess from the
      incantation, only reveals human beings. It has no effect toward
      magical creatures, ghosts, paintings, etc. As a matter of fact, it
      is generally a good idea to hide a miniaturized painting of someone
      you trust at some places where you expect to hear some interesting
      conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's eyes moved uneasily toward where a painting of a
      sleeping hermit had been in this office-turned-living room. The boy
      had surely guessed the portrait of the same person might be hided
      somewhere in the Slytherin Common Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ex-Head of Slytherin continued as if he hadn't noticed
      Draco's expressions. "Specialis Revelio detects spying charms and
      hexes, yet it has an unusually high failure rate at your age.
      Revelio, on the other hand, although it might be quite taxing for
      you, has a much higher success rate, and it covers more area than
      any sub-charm of Revelio."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus stopped, trying hard to remember something, and then
      said, "And you should practise powerful magic as much as possible.
      According to … something I remembered from somewhere, practising
      powerful magic increases your total magic level. Charms such as
      Protego Vitamaxima would do. Oh, and you can try to learn some
      Muggle magicians' tricks, those might help with wand
      movements."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus swayed a bit as he said the last sentence, and he had no
      idea where the "magicians' tricks" part came from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blond boy looked at Severus, a bit worried, "Godfather, are
      you alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded, wanted to curse Mad-Eye, but checked his tongue
      in front of his possibly-too-soft godson. "I really need to be
      harsher on Mad-Eye when it is my turn to memory charm him. Now try
      Revelio."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus corrected Draco's wand movements, he pondered Draco's
      previous question: thanks to Mad-Eye and the Boy-Who-Lived, I have
      so many mental lapses! In my current mental state, it would be
      dangerous for me to wander into unfamiliar territories. However,
      why do I have a false sense of security? Where does it come from?
      What the hell has Mad-Eye or the Boy-Who-Lived done to me? Did they
      do something similar to Draco as well?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">About half an hour later, Severus finished his last privacy
      spell, and allowed the sweaty and tired blond boy to sit down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus reached into his pouch, drew out a golden locket, and
      tossed it to Draco. "If you open the locket, and press the button
      inside, then for the next fifteen minutes, within a radius of about
      two meters, it would be equivalent to around two thirds of the
      sequence of spells I just showed you. It can only be used about ten
      times. Don't rely too much on it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Godfather, thank you so much." Draco examined the locket
      admiringly, "Godfather, did you make it yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus raised one eyebrow and smirked smugly - if there were
      some leisure time, he wouldn't mind going into details on how
      difficult it was to combine and store eighteen powerful charms into
      one locket, and how there were only a limited number of wizards in
      the world who could do it. However, there might be more pressing
      matters. "Draco, what was the matter that you wanted to
      discuss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco put the locket into his pouch, looked a bit uneasy, and
      said, "Godfather, I had wondered if you might need a
      house-elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus raised one eyebrow, and suggested: "I gather, the
      Boy-Who-Lived's comments on this subject changed your view?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus clearly remembered the Potter boy's weird questions
      toward Draco and him concerning house-elves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy-Who-Lived had asked about whether the house-elves would
      hurt other wizards or themselves upon commands from their masters.
      The answer was obviously yes and yes. While Severus gave several
      examples where house-elves were used as killers, and Draco
      supplemented with information on how the old families usually
      blocked house-elves of other families from coming in, Harry Potter
      frowned in a way that strikingly resembled Albus Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Harry Potter asked how the house-elves processed commands
      given by various beings. Draco answered that house-elves would obey
      their masters' orders first, then other family members', other
      peoples' when they were the masters' guests, for courtesy reasons.
      They didn't give a dime about what other non-human creatures
      requested them to do - though he admitted that house-elves might
      take orders from the paintings of deceased masters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter pondered on this, and asked a really odd question:
      "Do the house-elves always know themselves as house-elves, and
      define themselves as house-elves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus remembered that he and Draco had exchanged some worried
      glances, and Draco had hesitantly answered, "I suppose, yes? Dobby
      used to say, 'Dobby is such a bad elf', or something like
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, there came the really worrying question: "Can the
      house-elves be ordered to harm human beings as a whole?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus had responded, "Mr. Potter, I wonder if the house-elves
      are capable of understanding complex concepts such as 'human beings
      as a whole'. If the house-elves can foresee their actions might
      hurt their masters, they would not do so, however, their masters
      can explicitly demand them to. I have heard that a certain
      house-elf was forced by its master to assist in her suicide. The
      poor house-elf became mad and attempted to kill itself several
      times before our respectable Aurors could put it into Azkaban.
      Therefore, if someone commands his or her house-elf to conduct some
      act that might bring an end to this world, it probably would
      obey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, after discussing in secrecy with Granger again, the
      Boy-Who-Lived asked Severus if he could try to figure out how to
      make house-elves, and especially, how to alter the predetermined
      rules that these conjured creatures would follow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During the past week, besides practising his bribery skills with
      the help of Lucius on officials in the German Ministry of Magic,
      and doing something that Severus couldn't remember now, he had
      spent almost all his spare time on this question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Too bad that I can't even share my progresses with my godson or
      Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The proud black-haired wizard regrettably thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus eyed his godson who was looking at him with worry and
      concern, and smiled reassuringly, "Draco, you don't need to give me
      a house-elf. Maybe, I would be able to conjure some for you
      later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Godfather, I know that we shouldn't rely too much on
      house-elves, but it is always good to have more security measures,
      isn't it?" Draco said, "If you would like to, I can temporarily
      transfer the ownership of any Malfoy elf - besides Dobby - to
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smelt something odd in Draco's words, and asked: "What
      about Dobby? Isn't it the house-elf that your Father used to bring
      everywhere? - If this concerns some privacy issues, you don't need
      to answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's lips twisted, and his eyebrows frowned. "After Harry
      asked those weird questions, I observed the Malfoy elves more
      closely. And I found that all the elves were happy beyond
      themselves upon Father's return, except Dobby. It seemed that Dobby
      wasn't happy at all. I knew Father wasn't generally nice toward
      house-elves, but he wasn't deliberately cruel, either. Dobby, Dobby
      might be a special case for Father. Dobby was actually assigned as
      my personal elf when I was born. After Mother was taken away,
      Father might have blamed every cough I had on Dobby, and, err,
      punished Dobby accordingly. Father might think taking Dobby
      everywhere was a good training program for Dobby, so it would later
      serve me better. After I observed that Dobby was behaving oddly
      upon Father's return, I demanded a true answer from it. Besides
      almost knocking itself into concussions, it said that 'Old master
      is bad person', and 'Dobby is to running to the Boy-Who-Lived, and
      warn him of the return of the bad wizard, if the bad master didn't
      turn himself in'. In the name of Merlin, this kind of treason
      shouldn't even be possible for house-elves!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Where is Dobby now?" Severus almost rose from his chair.
      "Have you demanded true answers concerning loyalty to your family
      from other elves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco answered: "I have subdued Dobby, tied it up with multiple
      methods, and it is currently being watched by other elves in the
      Manor. As for the other elves, they are all cleared of
      everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded, "Bring it to me. I need to check it for various
      mind controlling magic. Hopefully, this is the cause… Oh, don't
      look at me like that, Draco. If a house-elf is genuinely capable of
      treason, the wizarding kind is in much greater trouble than a
      single house-elf being controlled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's face turned white.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twenty minutes of busy wand works later, Severus admitted that
      he didn't find any signs of mind controlling magic on Dobby, and
      Legilimens seemed to suggest that this little creature genuinely
      resented Lucius, and it also desired the gravest punishment for
      house-elves: freedom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Damn it!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus took in a deep breath, and said to his godson: "Draco, I
      think we need to notify Potter - and bloody Mad-Eye - that this
      kind of thing is even possible. We need to check every single
      house-elf in this castle!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Five minutes later, when Severus began to explain how Dobby
      might be capable of treason to Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and
      Mad-Eye, the Girl-Who-Revived seemed to have taken much delight
      upon the news that house-elves might want freedom. The girl
      radiating purity and innocence was looking at the new Lord Malfoy
      expectantly, as if it was a sin not to give Dobby his freedom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew he shouldn't let his godson appear to be the bad
      guy in front of the Boy-Who-Lived and the Girl-Who-Revived, so he
      himself snapped, "Miss Granger, the majority of house-elves in
      Hogwarts are probably descendants of those conjured by Lord Salazar
      Slytherin! If the house-elves are capable of betraying their
      supposed mistress Headmistress Minerva McGonagall, why wouldn't
      they decide to rid Muggleborns from the school? Or, enlighten me,
      why can't a free-spirited house-elf just decide that it wants to
      steal the Stone from Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although Mad-Eye pretended that he was busy casting spells on
      Dobby to avoid commenting on this issue, Severus knew the paranoid
      old Auror agreed with him on this point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the girl with amazing grace, speed, and physical strength
      stared angrily at Severus, and Severus stared back without a blink,
      the Boy-Who-Lived murmured, "The Bicentennial Man, no, The
      Bicentennial House-elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus looked at Harry Potter in bewilderment, "Mr. Potter, the
      house-elves do have a life expectancy of two hundred years, but
      Dobby is quite young for an elf. Does this has something to do with
      the age of elves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter shook his head, then hesitated, and sighed, "Yes,
      we should check all the house-elves in Hogwarts for any original
      thoughts. And, err, Draco, AFTER we make sure that it is safe,
      could you give Dobby its freedom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Draco could respond, Harry yelled with panic: "Oh, wait,
      forget my last sentence for now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Girl-Who-Revived immediately directed her stares toward the
      Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, I can't say it! I really can't say it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This proclamation sent chills down everyone's spine.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
