<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 37 Nurmengard I, German Minister, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 37: Nurmengard Pt I, German Minister of Magic</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin. After Kuilin's diligent
      work, I suppose I can update this story twice per week for a
      while.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">9:46 am, July 15th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ever since 1952, the West German Ministry of Magic put into
      place a rather peculiar tradition: that all appointees to the
      position of guard at the Nurmengard Wizarding Prison needed to be
      interviewed and approved by the Minister of Magic. It was not that
      the men and women on the top of the political structure had no
      better things to occupy their time with, nor did it mean the
      Ministers were all power-hungry busybodies who couldn't handle any
      power - no matter how small - to their subordinates. It was because
      of a single name: Gellert Grindelwald.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If the matter were given to the hands of Rudolf Schmidt, the
      current German Minister of Magic, sometimes he just wished the
      winners of World War II just decided to handle Grindelwald to the
      dementors, instead of creating a permanent problem for the Ministry
      of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, after Albus Dumbledore defeated Gellert
      Grindelwald, both the Russians and the Americans wanted to get the
      secrets Lord Grindelwald knew, especially why he had been
      invincible as a result of the Muggles he sacrificed. And the Brits,
      since they got the majority of Grindelwald's ancient relic
      collections, and maybe since Albus Dumbledore had a special soft
      spot for the blond dark lord, did not protest the decision to keep
      the lives of the cold blooded murderers and warmongers of the
      previous Wizarding World War.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From a certain point of view, Rudolf Schmidt could understand
      why the lords and ladies who wielded real power wanted to keep
      Grindelwald alive; but what he didn't understand was why the
      Americans, the Russians, and the French had regular visits with
      Grindelwald, and swindled Merlin knew how many secrets out of him,
      while the Germans had to be held responsible for the safety of
      Nurmengard!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Don't they know that all German wizards and witches with
      real powers are either dead, or in Nurmengard? And no security is
      perfect unless it has some powerful wizards or witches behind
      it!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rudolf had suspected that, if it were only up to the lords and
      ladies in Washington, D.C., or up to the comrades in Moscow, they
      might decide to torture the secrets out of Grindelwald, hence
      ending the permanent problem. However, Washington and Moscow were
      obviously not friends, and they fought fervently for moral high
      grounds on such eyeball-attracting matters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And not to mention the goodie-oldie Albus Dumbledore, who
      was against torture of any kind!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">To be fair, before June 1992, the only thing that kept the
      previous West German Ministers of Magic asleep at night was the
      fact that Albus Dumbledore, the most powerful wizard in the world,
      paid Grindelwald a monthly visit, and checked the securities of
      Nurmengard. The fact that Grindelwald promised Dumbledore that he
      would not escape might have helped, but nobody wanted to rely too
      much on that promise, nobody except the goodie-oldie Albus
      Dumbledore, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, even Albus Dumbledore couldn't stop Grindelwald
      from parceling some of his dark secrets to unwanted ears. In 1947,
      there was a prisoner named Emeric Meyer, who was sentenced four
      years into the prison for multiple petty thefts. This man was
      assigned to Grindelwald as his errand boy. According to what Rudolf
      heard, it was because you didn't want the most dangerous dark lord
      in the European Continent to decide that he wanted to run away for
      trivial things such as the taste of his morning coffee, or the way
      his bed was made, and because Emeric Meyer was weak in magic and
      was pretty slow in the brain department - according to his
      interrogators, anyway. Rudolf had doubted whether the Americans
      might be behind this decision as well. Not entirely a surprise for
      anyone, only one year after Emeric Meyer was released, that man
      became a very dangerous dark wizard. It took three really powerful
      wizards to track him down and kill him. Rudolf had suspected that
      if those three were not each from the United States, France, and
      the Soviet Union, it might not take that many powerful wizards to
      do it, nor might Meyer be killed during his arrest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was needless to say that the world powers had put more
      efforts into persuading Lord Grindelwald into parceling out more of
      his secrets ever since, and no prisoners with any sentence shorter
      than lifetime imprisonment was allowed anywhere near
      Grindelwald.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, the Ministry couldn't restrict the freedom of the
      prison guards after their job. The Ministry had wanted to let every
      guard take an Unbreakable Vow of some sort, yet both the Americans
      and the Russians had fervently objected any idea of that sort for
      "human rights reasons". Rudolf was sure that some of the guards
      were actually American spies, or Russian spies, or both, and
      Grindelwald might know who was on which side better than the poor
      West German Ministry of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, while American Muggle troops and wizarding
      delegations were in one part of your country, and the Russians were
      in the other part, one couldn't actually argue the unfairness of
      the whole matter. At least, when the Americans had five to seven
      powerful lords and ladies, and the Russians had three to five
      comrades, magical West Germany, which had none, had no bargaining
      power whatsoever.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the 1970s, while the extraordinary powerful dark wizard who
      named himself Lord Voldemort rose into power in Great Britain, many
      people had suspected that this man had somehow gained magical
      knowledge from Grindelwald. Lord Grindelwald had neither confirmed
      nor denied that speculation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After David Monroe was supposedly killed by Lord Voldemort,
      Bartemius Crouch, the Director of the Department of Law Enforcement
      in the British Ministry of Magic had called the international
      wizarding society for help. The Americans, the Russians and the
      French had offered nothing more or less than their utmost moral
      support.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some presumptuous Muggle-loving nerds had explained the
      reluctance of the international community to offer any real help to
      the Brits as some laughable Muggle psychology terms, such as
      "bystander effect". However, Rudolf had a much better explanation:
      the Brits had possessed too many powerful magical relics and
      secrets for too long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the Muggle side of the world, if the Americans and Russians
      had cooperated in one really important matter since the end of
      World War II, it was the demolition of the British and French
      colonial system. After World War II, both the Muggle British and
      Muggle French government had tried both diplomatic and military
      approaches to continue their reigns in their colonies, yet the
      Americans and the Russians had sabotaged all their efforts. In the
      Suez Crisis, while Muggle Britain and France allied with Israel and
      started a military operation in Suez Canal to keep their special
      interest in Egypt, the Americans staged a run on the pounds while
      the Russians threatened Britain and France with a nuclear war. With
      the efforts from the Americans and Russians, the 1960s and 1970s
      witnessed the birth of many newly independent states, and Great
      Britain was no longer an imperial power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the wizarding side of things, however, Great Britain had
      Albus Dumbledore, the most powerful wizard in the world. Since the
      old man was never interested in helping the Muggles of his country
      maintain their colonial system, the goodie-oldie was highly praised
      by both the Free and the Communist countries, and was showered with
      all kinds of honors. However, by the 1970s, when most of the
      British colonies had declared independence, and the Americans and
      the Russians each got their share of the game, the most powerful
      wizard in the world began to seem too old and too stubborn with his
      important secrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, while Lord Voldemort rose out of nowhere - some
      speculated Grindelwald was behind him, others suspected the
      Americans or Russians were backing him up, while some even
      speculated whether the hands of the Chinese or Japanese were
      involved - the world just held back their hands and observed what
      Albus Dumbledore could do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To the amazement of the entire wizarding world, each time Lord
      Voldemort seemed to have gained the upper hand, Albus Dumbledore
      could pull something out of his magical hat, or did something
      really complicated and weird, and then he was able to regain some
      advantage. And in 1981, Lord Voldemort was vanquished - surely by a
      trap from Dumbledore, not some baby - and Dumbledore had proved
      that he was the better man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world became much friendlier toward Dumbledore after that,
      and the interest in Grindelwald's secrets reached a new height -
      everyone who wielded real power knew that Dumbledore and
      Grindelwald were close in their youth, and it was against common
      sense to think that these two gained their ancient knowledge
      through different means.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The demolition of the Berlin Wall and the end of the Cold War
      brought a major reorganization to the Ministry of Magic, and
      Rudolph became the first German - no longer West German, or East
      German, just German - Minister of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, the reunification of the two German Ministries of
      Magic hadn't ended the permanent problem in Nurmengard - Rudolf had
      hoped the Americans had decided to just take Grindelwald to
      Washington as a trophy for winning the Cold War, but the
      goodie-oldie Albus Dumbledore was still the most powerful wizard in
      the world, so the Americans didn't even try.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One year ago, the day when Lord Voldemort suddenly reappeared
      and was subsequently vanquished again, the Flamels were
      slaughtered, and Albus Dumbledore disappeared as well. The story
      the Boy-Who-Lived recounted was obviously a lie for anyone with a
      shred of a brain - many had agreed that the Flamels might be killed
      by Voldemort, while Voldemort might be defeated by the combined
      forces of Albus Dumbledore and the previously disappeared David
      Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before anyone had figured out what really happened that night,
      or, more importantly, what actually happened to Albus Dumbledore,
      the British wizards shocked the rest of the world again, by
      offering the healing power of the Philosopher's Stone to everyone
      in the world. This overtly nice gesture and the attribution of all
      glories to a young child had some resemblance to the wired plots of
      the goodie-oldie, but it was too good to be true even for Albus
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And after Gellert Grindelwald learned that Albus Dumbledore was
      "frozen in Time", and the Philosopher's Stone was available to
      anyone with lethal conditions, he claimed that he might be able to
      unravel some mysteries related to "the origin of magic" if he were
      given the chance to try to rescue Dumbledore from Time and study
      the Stone. Lord Grindelwald even promised that he would take
      Unbreakable Vows of any contents that might satisfy the British,
      German, and American magical authorities before doing so.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald's eagerness forced all the lords and ladies with
      real power and intelligence to pause and think before they made any
      efforts in robbing or stealing the Stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though Rudolf himself was never powerful enough to anywhere near
      the level of Albus Dumbledore - otherwise, nobody would make him
      Minister of Magic - sometimes, he couldn't help but to wonder if
      Albus Dumbledore had plotted the whole thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Maybe the old man finally realized his old age, and foresaw
      what might happen to Great Britain once he died. Perhaps he had
      sacrificed his own life and magic, - or maybe that of the
      unfortunate Flamels, Monroe, Lord Voldemort, and Death Eaters - to
      construct some formidable protections against all potential
      enemies.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Maybe the Stone is just a bizarre lure, and something
      unspeakable would happen to anyone who made a real effort to get
      it. This thing may only be able to strike a limited number of
      times, but nobody wants to be the first one at the receiving end of
      Dumbledore's final weird plot.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Moreover, who can be sure that Albus Dumbledore is actually
      "disappeared"? Great Britain had witnessed the disappearances and
      reappearances of Lord Voldemort, David Monroe, the
      Girl-Who-Revived, and most recently, Lucius Malfoy. Who can say
      that Dumbledore isn't going to be the next one?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Maybe this is indeed something related to the origin of
      magic, as Grindelwald had claimed. In that case, the whole affair
      might relate to why Dumbledore and Grindelwald had risen to their
      level of power. Then...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not being a really powerful wizard himself, Rudolf couldn't
      quite fathom the "what-ifs" in case the matter involved the origin
      of magic, but he knew it was enough to cause the world's lords and
      ladies to temporarily halt their plans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Maybe they want Grindelwald to test things out first, or
      maybe something else.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was needless to say that Madam Bones' insistence that all
      prisoners in Azkaban should be moved to Nurmengard attracted more
      attention to a particular prisoner, and the whole world wondered
      the real reason behind this bizarre act.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">True, the dementor treatment before was highly inhuman, but
      after the Girl-Who-Revived supposedly killed all dementors, why did
      they still have to move every prisoner to Nurmengard? Actually, why
      did they get rid of all dementors in the first place? They suddenly
      became better persons? What a joke!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Under the pressure from the curious Americans, Rudolf agreed to
      accept the British prisoners. Luckily for him, most of the
      prisoners had gone mad due to years of exposure to dementors, and
      they could be easily managed. And, since then, the British Ministry
      of Magic had only handed him common criminals, and nobody needed to
      be locked into the lifetime wards in which Grindelwald was
      held.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a year, poor Rudolf had fantasized that things might have
      settled down a bit, yet he knew that was too good to be true: the
      aged Lord Gellert Grindelwald was on the waiting list for the use
      of the Stone, and it would be his turn to return to youth in two
      months. After that, Rudolf wondered what forces could possibly hold
      the rejuvenated most powerful wizard in the world in the very
      prison that he built.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For what was worse, three weeks ago, the supposedly dead Lucius
      Malfoy suddenly reappeared. From the looks of it, the British
      Ministry of Magic had every intention to put this intelligent
      ex-Death Eater into the lifetime wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">For Merlin's sake, who are they kidding? The very Death
      Eater whose son is a very close friend to the Boy-Who-Lived, and
      who had been an ally of Harry Potter? And you are telling me the
      Brits are not up to something?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Is it a plot on the Brits' part to get in contact with
      Grindelwald? Or are they trying to warn the rest of the world that
      Dumbledore might return anytime?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Who would reappear next? Charles Nott, whose son is closed
      to Potter as well? Any other Death Eaters? Any previous holders of
      Line of Merlin Unbroken? Hogwarts Four? Merlin himself? I wonder
      when the Brits get this habit of reappearing after their supposed
      death!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Moreover, damn the Americans! I am quite sure they are
      going to pressure me to put Malfoy together with Grindelwald, just
      to see what happens next!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now, after what appeared that Lord Voldemort might have made
      another return, Rudolf was faced again with the permanent devil for
      every German Minister of Magic: approving a prison guard for the
      lifetime wards of Nurmengard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During the years, Rudolf had already given up the hope of
      figuring out why each and everyone of those intelligent people
      applied for the low-paying and low-status jobs in Nurmengard; if
      the power behind the applicants were the from Americans, Russians,
      French, or whoever; and whether they were just some self-motivated
      wannabe dark wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At any rate, Rudolf Schmidt glanced again at the resume of the
      best candidate for this job, a likeable young chap named Alexander
      Dimitrov. According to the papers, his parents were heros in the
      war against Grindelwald, he was educated in Durmstrang, graduated
      with outstanding marks, and had several suspicious "international
      traveling" years after graduation. In a word, he was the common
      sort of people who applied for prison guard jobs in Nurmengard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Damn the Americans! Ever since the end of the Cold War,
      they have even abandoned the courtesy to make the resumes look at
      least inconspicuous!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rudolf sighed, and signaled his secretary to let Alexander
      Dimitrov in.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
