<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 38 Nurmengard II, Lucius Malfoy, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 38: Nurmengard Pt II, Lucius Malfoy</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin. After Kuilin's diligent
      work, I suppose I can update this story twice per week for a
      while.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">10:23 am, July 15th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">According to the rushed decision by the survivors of the
      eighty-ninth Wizengamot, Lucius Abraxas Malfoy, aka. Mr. White, was
      sentenced 357 years in prison for his previous crimes as a Death
      Eater. Since the ex-Lord Malfoy, who was now only Mr. Malfoy, had
      been quite cooperative in his trials, and he had some unspecified
      "considerable contributions to the wizarding society and the
      world", the prison sentence had been reduced to 234 years. Lucius
      hoped that his wisdom and luck would help him to significantly
      shorten this unpleasant period of time, though that highly depends
      on how he would perform in the next two months.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Handcuffed behind his back, baggy orange prison robes on his
      body, the ex-Lord Malfoy was escorted through the yard of
      Nurmengard towards the lifetime wards by three prison guards.
      Trying to ignore the grim future prospect that this might be his
      residence for a long time, the blond man observed the jet black
      castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sounds of huge waves clashing with rocks and the damp and
      salty wind told everyone inside Nurmengard that the prison was
      located on a rocky cliff near the North Sea, From what Lucius read
      before he came here, viewing from outside, the black formidable
      fortress was rectangular in shape, with four towering keeps in each
      corner. A glimpse from inside told Lucius that the prison guards on
      the towers could effectively shoot every inch of the rectangular
      inner yard, leaving no blind spot. According to the newspapers,
      during the past year, the northeast corner of the castle had been
      transformed into the "Healing and Consultation Center", and it was
      where most of the dementor-exposed former prisoners of Azkaban were
      located. From what Lucius had heard, the healings didn't make much
      progress. Heading to southwest, Lucius supposed that the rumors
      that the lifetime wards were located in the southwest corner might
      be true. However, for a magical castle that might or might not have
      some resemblance to Hogwarts or Azkaban in its defensive wards,
      judging the orientations according to the sun could be misleading,
      and the direction of the gates bore no indications of the actual
      directions while you were inside the castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the two guards in front of the southwest corner gate and
      the guards escorting Lucius exchanged some passwords, Lucius and
      the guards were lead through a Thief's Downfall, and were probed
      with a series of interesting magical devices. About five minutes
      later, the southwest corner gate creaked open, and the blond
      prisoner became the subject of another round of checks after he
      went through the gate. Finally, the new prisoner and guard trio
      were allowed to step into the corridors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although the outside of Nurmengard was a standard high-security
      magical castle, amazingly, the inside resembled -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a suppressed shudder, Lucius remembered the pictures of
      Muggle concentration camps that he recently saw: the walls were
      deathly white, the floor was gloomy grey, and the corridors were
      depressingly straight and narrow, with tall black iron prison cell
      doors meticulously arranged on each side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Did he, did he want to sacrifice his wizarding prisoners
      the same way he used the Muggles to be invincible?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When it was all about how Grindelwald killed millions of Muggles
      to gain infinite power, Lucius never thought much of it - the world
      might be a better place with more of those pests gone; and if
      Grindelwald had done it sooner, the "nuclear weapons" that had
      worried Severus so much probably wouldn't even exist. However, to
      consider the possibility that the Malfoys might one day lose his
      Lordship's favor in the hypothetic scenario that Grindelwald had
      won, and this might be the place where the Malfoys might end up
      with…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Swallowing down hard, Lucius admitted to himself that Albus
      Dumbledore might have done one good thing in his life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several long corridors and five stairs up later, where Lucius
      figured that the castle was much larger from the inside than from
      outside, the guard trio stopped in front of Zelle 537, and opened
      the heavy iron door. Lucius stepped into the cell, and the door
      closed behind him immediately. Then, the guards opened a small
      opening in the larger door, and instructed Lucius to put his hands
      through the small door. While one of the guards was untying the
      handcuffs, Lucius eyed the small single cell - unfortunately,
      <em class="calibre8">his</em> single cell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This room was approximately half of the size of the
      semi-comfortable holding cell in the Department of Magical Law
      Enforcement, yet it was much better than the abysmal conditions for
      prisoners of Azkaban before it was turned into the Hospital - not
      that the prisoners would notice anything with the presence of
      dementors. Although any common sense of orientation would determine
      it as impossible, Lucius could still see the gloomy North Sea
      through the small window. Lucius suppose, this view was better than
      the grim sight of the Nurmengard inner yard - the Boy-Who-Lived
      probably didn't lie about that the ex-Lord Malfoy would get the
      best reasonable treatment in Nurmengard. Beside the window, there
      was a neatly-made single bed with grey sheet, and all the corners
      of the bed was round, and perhaps magically cushioned. Near the
      head of the bed stood a small round-cornered hardwood desk, and a
      chair affixed to some rails on the concrete floor, so that you
      could only move it forward or backward in front of the desk, yet
      there was no way that you could lift the chair up and use it as a
      weapon. Near the end of the bed, there was a small chest drawer. If
      the German prison officials were not boasting about their working
      efficiency, the limited underclothes and other items that Lucius
      was allowed to bring here should already be inside it. Besides the
      chest drawer, there was the toilet and the standing shower. As
      Impervius charms eliminated the practical necessity of walls and
      curtains between the shower and other furnitures, and the privacy
      of prisoners were not of much concern to the designers of this
      fortress, Lucius supposed that he had to swallow down this
      unpleasant adjustment to his lifestyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As his hands were free from the handcuffs, and the small door in
      the clunky iron door was shut behind, Lucius rubbed his wrists, and
      moved toward the small wooden desk. Lucius opened the drawer in the
      desk, and found the real luxury that he was allowed to purchase in
      Nurmengard: newspapers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius flipped through the headlines in the <em class="calibre8">Daily
      Prophet</em>, and found no new instructions from the Boy-Who-Lived,
      - well, he just finished the conversation with the Potter boy
      merely ten hours ago, so there was no need for new instructions on
      today's newspaper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius frowned as he thought of the uncomfortable conversation
      yesterday, where the Boy-Who-Lived grilled him about everything he
      did to the treacherous little creature named Dobby. Under the angry
      stares from the Girl-Who-Revived and sneers from Mad-Eye, Lucius
      admitted that he had used some illegal-on-human magic on Dobby. To
      avoid further judgements from the Granger girl and Mad-Eye, Lucius
      changed into Parseltongue to list the various curses he had
      employed, such as Cruciatus Curse, Imperius Curse, Gom jabbar, and
      something else along the same line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately, the Boy-Who-Lived had to ask Severus and Mad-Eye
      about the effects and rumors on each curse in detail in English,
      and Lucius had to endure the Girl-Who-Revived's constant
      judgements.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Err, the Cruciatus Curse breaks one's soul? I mean, could you
      explain it in less metaphoric words?" The Potter boy had asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was first confused by Potter's question, because "breaks
      one's soul" was exactly what Cruciatus Curse did, there was nothing
      metaphoric about it, and the potion that could mitigate the
      sufferings of Cruciatus victims was called "Soul Healing
      Potion".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From later discussion between Severus and Potter, Lucius
      realized that the Boy-Who-Lived didn't believe in the existence of
      souls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">But that is ridiculous! If wizards don't have souls, how
      can animagus think? How does Polyjuice work?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius wanted to utter his disagreement, yet he checked his
      tongue, because he didn't want to contradict his new Light Lord on
      such theoretical issues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, something hit Lucius: <em class="calibre8">I don't remember anything
      happening between the point of my death and the point of my
      revival! Therefore, therefore...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius drew in a horrified breath: <em class="calibre8">there is no
      afterlife.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye observed Lucius' change in breath, and snarled, "What,
      Lucius? You'd better spell it out, for your own sake!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius sighed, "Lord Potter, I have just realized that I can
      attest to your idea that there is no afterlife. At least, there is
      nothing that I can recall between my death and revival. <em class="calibre8">I
      sspoke truth.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, then we can eliminate the whole 'creation-of-a-soul' thing
      from our discussion." The Potter boy proclaimed. "Let's move to the
      breach of predetermined magical rules."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Lucius' slight amazement, Severus chose to refute the new
      Light Lord's idea: "Mr. Potter, you do realize that soul and
      afterlife are two different concepts. As an animagus and a
      potioneer, I still tend to believe in the existence of souls. There
      are potions that claim to be able to heal or damage souls, and it
      appears that the potions perform their functions as described."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Severus and Potter entered a rather academic discussion,
      Lucius re-evaluated his new Light Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The Boy-Who-Lived doesn't seem to be bothered by such
      disagreements. Well, this is something different from
      Riddle.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just then, the Girl-Who-Revived raised her head from a bulky
      book that she was reading, and asked, "In the description in this
      book, Gom jabbar and a poisonous needle can be used to test if
      someone is a human or an animal, for a human can endure the pain
      caused by Gom jabbar, and not to flinch toward the poisonous
      needle, while an animal cannot. So how did Dobby react to your Gom
      jabbar, and what did you say or do around the time you punish Dobby
      with Gom jabbar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius tried hard to remember, and answered, "I told it not to
      scream, otherwise I would punish it more severely. And after a few
      times, Dobby stopped screaming during my punishments. But how can
      that make it a human?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Lucius, oh, Lucius, you dimwit! " Severus - instead of
      anyone else - snapped at him."You set a test and asked Dobby to
      behave like a human, or to be a human! The master's orders are the
      highest laws of house-elves, so Dobby did!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius wanted to protest, and yet he found Severus' arguments
      quite convincing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl radiating a sense of innocence and purity said in
      amazement: "So the cruel master is the reason that Dobby is capable
      of a mind of its own!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A mind of its own?" The Boy-Who-Lived repeated the
      Girl-Who-Revived's words with his eyes wide open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius had a sense that the Potter boy had just discovered
      something very important. And judging from the change of expression
      on Severus' face, Lucius guessed his new best friend had thought of
      something really important as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for what they might have figured out, Lucius hadn't figured
      out yet. Lucius supposed, if he was unlucky, he would have hundreds
      of years to decrypt this mystery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Comparing to some rather theoretical magic problems, Lucius
      would rather prefer to entangle some political conundrum, such as
      why the world's top wizards hadn't attacked Hogwarts yet. After
      Lucius instructed Severus to bribe the right bureaucrats, and asked
      the right questions, it turned out that they owed quite a lot to
      Albus Dumbledore's reputation of weirdness and power, and
      Grindelwald's reaction to the events one year ago. Lucius wondered
      if Lord Grindelwald had considered Great Britain as his own
      playground after Dumbledore was locked in Time, and said something
      specifically designed to deter the Americans and Russians from
      doing anything real.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately for Lucius, even in the field that he considered
      his game, the major players might consider magic theory more
      important than politics, for Lord Grindelwald had claimed that the
      reason Albus Dumbledore disappeared had something to do with the
      "origin of magic", and this, somehow made the rest of the world
      pause and think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Severus delivered Grindelwald's statement to the
      Boy-Who-Lived the day before yesterday, Severus, Draco, the Granger
      girl, and the Potter boy all agreed the claim itself might be true;
      while Mad-Eye, who had been approached by people who tried to
      deliver the same statement from Lord Grindelwald before, didn't
      believe a single word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius had never walked the walks of powerful wizards, and he
      had never dreamt that he would - what Lucius excelled at was
      people. By comparing the different reactions of Potter, Granger,
      Severus, and Mad-Eye upon the previous "origin of magic" issue and
      the house-elf issue, Lucius could sort of fancy why Mad-Eye failed
      in his attempt to become a really powerful lord: <em class="calibre8">this guy is
      slower in powerful wizardry than I am.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">For the next thirty minutes or so, Lucius watched as they
      discussed "free will", "predetermined magical rules" and "origin of
      magic", where Severus and Potter did most of the talking. Lucius
      didn't quite understand all the contents they were talking about,
      but he could see one thing: <em class="calibre8">if anyone in the Potter boy's
      headquarter office is going to be a really powerful lord, Potter
      and Severus have the best chances.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius started to consider how he should treat Severus
      differently after this discovery, and contemplated what this might
      mean for his future plans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The Boy-Who-Lived, the Girl-Who-Revived, Severus, and
      Grindelwald, are all more interested in powerful wizardry than
      current politics. Maybe I should instruct Draco to do the same, and
      stick closer to his new Godfather.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Thinking along the same line, I should change my approach
      when I meet Grindelwald. The leverages that I can use on Lord
      Grindelwald should be important secrets on powerful wizardry. The
      problem with this approach is that I can hardly see the danger in
      any of the important secrets I know, maybe Severus and Potter might
      enlighten me on this.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Severus and Potter reached the point that they were full of
      speculations and without enough power or resources to confirm or
      falsify the majority of the ideas, Lucius raised his point, and
      asked what he could offer Lord Grindelwald.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Severus and Potter entered another long academic
      discussion, while Mad-Eye were either suggesting that Lucius raised
      this question because he was up to something, or pointing out how
      dangerous each secret could be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">This old lunatic is good at one thing: how dangerous
      everything could be.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, they agreed on one least harmful secret: part of the
      reason Hermione Granger was like this, had something to do with the
      sacrifice of an unicorn (as many had already guessed out); and in
      case something happened to the Girl-Who-Revived, there would be so
      much backlashes from the Universe, that the origin of magic might
      be destroyed (many people already knew the rumor about unicorn
      blood and Liquid Luck, anyway).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, now Lucius was stuck with only one thing that he
      could offer Lord Grindelwald (which Lord Grindelwald might already
      know), and his task was to wiggle out what the Russians and
      Americans had been trying for the past fifty years from the clearly
      very intelligent Lord Grindelwald.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius sighed, and continued to imagine various scenarios how
      his first meeting with Lord Grindelwald would go.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
