<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival pt2 - Revival Chapter 39 Nurmengard III, Grindelwald, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 39: Nurmengard Pt III, Gellert Grindelwald</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I would like to thank my beta, Kuilin. After Kuilin's diligent
      work, I suppose I can update this story twice per week for a
      while.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>

      <p class="calibre6">9:24 am, July 16th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Gellert Grindelwald sat by his large oak desk in his
      luxurious study, and flipped through the preprints of the next
      month's <em class="calibre8">The Practical Potioneer</em> - after being the one of
      the world's top magical researchers in secret for almost fifty
      years, this was what you got as a privilege: access to anything
      published or to be published.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, Lord Grindelwald's heart wasn't on the improvements of
      Soul Healing Potion highlighted in the magazine at all, he was
      pondering on what the Brits wanted to deliver to him by sending
      Lucius Malfoy here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Grindelwald wasn't lying when he said that the reason Albus
      Dumbledore was locked in Time could be related to the origin of
      magic. With the blatantly obvious traps dear old Albus set up the
      year before, which couldn't even stop a first year Hogwarts
      students from entering, there had been enough foolish and
      defenseless students entering the chamber where there was a large
      golden mirror that they could see what they desire on the mirror.
      Various sources - ranging from the Americans, Russians, to
      self-aspired dark wizards - had all confirmed the existence of such
      a mirror. From the description, Grindelwald could only think of one
      mirror: the Mirror of Noitilov.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald had never seen the Mirror, but he had heard and read
      enough of it: the Mirror of Perfect Reflection, older than Merlin
      himself, where phoenixes came from, probably a relic from the
      Atlantis, where it all began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The Mirror of Noitilov and the Stone of Permanency, what a
      typical British trap! So full of ancient relics and mysteries, and
      so powerful. Just the type of thing my dear old Albus
      prefers.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Maybe it is due to the influence of Albus, the Brits are
      such a hopeless lot! When the rest of the world has moved forward,
      they are still clinging hard on old glories. During all his monthly
      visits, Albus didn't even ask me what I have accomplished. He just
      simply ruled everything as "too cruel to hear about". What a
      ridiculous lunatic!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Resentments toward old Albus aside, Grindelwald did think the
      Mirror and the Stone had everything to do with the origin of magic,
      and he was indeed quite interested in studying them. Although dear
      old Albus probably had set up some sort of trap there - maybe
      specifically for him, Grindelwald didn't plan to give up on
      entangling the biggest mystery in history without even trying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">If what the Brits said had a single shred of truth in it,
      the reason Albus disappeared indeed has something to do with Time,
      - a character both the Mirror of Noitilov and the Stone of
      Permanency share, Albus got to have invoked some arcane power in
      those relics. What other things could be "locked in Time"? Secrets
      of Atlantis? Creators of the Mirror and the Stone?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Literally for the sake of Atlantis, I would very much like
      to rescue the creators of the Mirror and the Stone from Time.
      Albus, sorry, you are just such a small bonus as comparing to
      them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A year's time had already allowed Grindelwald to formulate
      hundreds of plans that he could try on the Mirror and the Stone,
      yet everything was in vain unless he could actually lay his hands
      on these ancient relics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was not that Lord Grindelwald, currently the most powerful
      wizard in the world, couldn't escape from the very prison he
      himself designed that had prevented him from escaping, it was the
      combined effects of the lack of the Death Stick, the lack of the
      sacrificing Muggles, and his fading age, that had made Lord
      Grindelwald unsure of the prospect of facing down the combined
      forces of half a dozen wizarding lords and ladies. If everything
      could be managed, Grindelwald would rather prefer to regain his
      youth first, and to study the origin of magic peacefully (and
      without the possibly dreadful Unbreakable Vow) later. As for
      conquering the world, and ruling the Muggles, those could all wait
      until Lord Grindelwald figured out literally the most important
      secret in history.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hence, Grindelwald was quite interested in what Lucius Malfoy
      was about to deliver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A beeping sound notified Grindelwald the arrival of his
      visitor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald strode toward his living room, glanced through the
      view mirror, and saw the blond new prisoner and the guard trio who
      were escorting the British aristocrat. Among the guards, was one
      chubby-faced brown-haired newbie, possibly Alexander Dimitrov.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ah, the new boys, always so eager.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald checked his protection wards, and pressed a button.
      It was something ironic that you even needed to be careful when you
      were locked up in the very prison you designed. In the early days
      of his imprisonment, Grindelwald went through at least four
      assassination attempts by both some prison guards and follow
      inmates, before the Americans and the Russians agreed that Lord
      Grindelwald's mind was way too precious to be destroyed by some
      amateur hero-wannabe or avenge-seeker, thus they gradually
      increased the range of magic that the former dark lord was legally
      allowed to use.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the iron door slowly opened, Grindelwald appraised the
      messenger from United Kingdom. This ex-Lord Malfoy was a fine
      specimen of a poster Aryan wizard: pureblood, aristocratic,
      light-blond hair, blue eyes, a long and narrow face, a high nose,
      handsome, tall, well-behaved, clever, and relatively powerful
      before whatever happened one year ago. Or, to put it simply, this
      man had as much resemblance to Lord Grindelwald himself in his
      youth as an ordinary wizard could be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Presenting me with this man, ah, the Brits are seriously up
      to something.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the guards were done with untying Lucius's hands from the
      small opening in the large iron door, and closed it from behind,
      the younger blond nodded politely to the elder one, and spoke with
      a clear British accent: "Guten Morgen, Lord Grindelwald."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Nah, he needs to improve his German.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In order to avoid any misunderstandings caused by the British
      aristocrat's substandard German, Grindelwald spoke in impeccable
      English, and gestured to his guest room, "Good morning, Mr. Malfoy.
      If it were not too bothersome to you, could you change into the
      clothes I prepared for my guests? - One can hardly believe what the
      naughty boys might have done to the prison uniforms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And the orange color, eww, what an eyesore!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As his guest was changing into proper wizarding robes in the
      guest room, Grindelwald briefly amused himself by contemplating
      what the new prison guard Alexander Dimitrov might have tried to
      apply to Lucius' clothes and his body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">That guy conceals it well, yet the sense of danger
      radiating from him is unmistakable. Let me see what kind of
      entertainment this dark-lord-wannabe would offer me within the next
      two months.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Lucius exited the guest room, Grindelwald applied several
      wandless privacy spells that he could legally use, plus some
      wordless and wandless extra, and then nodded to the younger
      blond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The British aristocrat half-bowed to Lord Grindelwald, "Lord
      Grindelwald, I am here to deliver our sincere gratitude for what
      you have done for the peace of Great Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald showed Lucius the sofa, and casually said, "Ah,
      that. I suppose one shouldn't credit oneself too much for what one
      has done for one's own territory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The British aristocrat's mask might have cracked a bit, but he
      quickly collected himself, and claimed, "Lord Grindelwald, with all
      due respect, we spoke truth about Lord Dumbledore's
      conditions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">OK, he is not here to surrender. Farewell, my best case
      scenario. To be honest with myself, if the Brits are really about
      to give up on their knees, I suppose the Americans might be a
      better choice. With seven hypocritic and squabbling lords and
      ladies, the Brits might be able to wiggle out something in
      resemblance to freedom.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And for some reason, the British wizards either cannot or would
      not extract Albus from Time." Grindelwald pointed out the obvious
      facts, "From a certain point of view, I suppose Great Britain is
      indeed safer when the rest of the world has no idea about Albus'
      true condition, for the unknown is usually more terrifying than the
      known. However, I wonder how much longer Great Britain can hide
      behind Albus' reputation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius smiled bitterly, "I suppose, we can establish some new
      reputations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such as?" Grindelwald was somewhat intrigued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The annoying Brits, you may never know how many ancient
      relics they possess. In the name of Atlantis, why was Merlin born
      in Britain?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Hermione Jane Granger, or the so-called Girl-Who-Revived,
      bears some great resemblance to a unicorn." Lucius provided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, so you are here to claim that the rumor on the side-effects
      of unicorn blood is true, and you want me to deliver this news to
      the rest of the world." Grindelwald reasoned. "And why should I
      believe you? Or, regardless of my personal belief, why should I
      slip such indications to the interested ears?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom Morfin Riddle can attest to the less than pleasant
      after-effects of unicorn blood." Lucius' lips twisted into a sly
      smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald remembered the rumors about the slayed unicorns in
      Hogwarts before that night. He couldn't help but smiled to
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ah, my dear old Albus, always so good at traps.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald didn't plan to say that he was somewhat convinced by
      the evidence. He asked, "Whatever lead to the temporary
      re-disappearance of this Riddle, I do believe he has recently made
      another round of return, hasn't he? Or, since you were supposedly
      there, could you enlighten me on what indeed happened that
      night?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' smile turned bitter again. "Lord Grindelwald, my tongue
      is tied on this matter. However, I can disclose that there was
      indeed a sacrificial ritual involved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald contemplated this answered, and wondered what Albus
      had done. He knew Albus had access to the Hall of Prophecy, and a
      true seer Trelawney was among the Hogwarts staff, therefore Albus
      could often make some bizarre movements and somehow let everything
      go his way. This made deducing Albus' plots very difficult, even
      for the person who knew him best.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">With the help from the information passed to him by Time,
      the so-called "sacrificial ritual" could be as simple as an
      Unbreakable Vow!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, wait.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald eyed the weak wizard in front of him, "Is it an
      Unbreakable Vow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The younger blond answered without a blink, "Lord Grindelwald,
      with all due respect, I can neither confirm nor deny your current
      speculation, or any speculation in this nature."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Hmm, this does sound like an Unbreakable Vow. In the name
      of Atlantis, how did Albus defeat an enemy by an Unbreakable Vow?
      You can't simple take a vow and say you will defeat someone, and
      gain the power from the Vow. No Unbreakable Vow of such nature can
      stand, hardly anyone tried that survived from it. Or, did Albus
      discover some advanced-level Unbreakable Vow?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Grindelwald's eyes sparkled: <em class="calibre8">yes, there is indeed an
      advanced-level of Unbreakable Vow. Every Interdict powerful wizards
      imposed on this world is an advanced-level of Unbreakable
      Vow.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Did Albus throw away his Time to make his Interdict stand?
      Or, did he use the lives and magic of the Flamels, Monroe, and the
      Death Eaters to do it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Lucius Malfoy's head was mercifully spared, with only part
      of his magic sacrificed, for he had changed his side before that
      night. And his wife was also returned to him. Oh, the treatment of
      Lucius Malfoy is so Albus.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And what's the content of this Interdict? Anyone with
      serious attempts to the Stone and/or the Mirror is doomed?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Or, is it what the Brits want me to think?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald pondered on this question, while asking, "Is there
      any other message that you want to deliver to me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The British aristocrat who was busy studying Grindelwald's face
      answered. "That is all for now. Lord Grindelwald, is there anything
      that you want me to deliver back to the holder of Line of Merlin
      Unbroken?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Bones? That foolish woman? Or, did he mean Albus? Do they
      have some means to communicate with Albus?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald considered the implications, and motioned his hand.
      He pointed to a stack of paper floating toward Lucius, and said,
      "My standard welcome package, of course. It contains some of my
      research results on magical reproduction. By the way, for your
      information, blood purity does make sense to a certain extent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The younger blond's face went blank for an entire second before
      he could smile and reply, "Lord Grindelwald, I can hardly express
      our gratitude toward your generosity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before the British envoy to Nurmengard could utter more
      nonsense, Grindelwald told the ex-Lord Malfoy that he should take
      the current proper garments as a gift as well, and dismissed the
      talkative British aristocrat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, Albus. Why did you never take my welcome package? Is it
      because you were so afraid that my research might invalidate your
      beloved political correctness that you refuse to see the truth?
      Without you meddling everything, I suppose the British wizarding
      society can finally enjoy the benefits that the rest of the
      wizarding society in the developed world had already enjoyed for
      almost fifty years, and see some increase in the number of the
      newborns.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">My dear old Albus, I would really like to see your face
      when you welcome the new generation of Grindelwald-method-born
      students.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
