<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 1: Different Priors, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Different Priors</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">This is a fanfiction of a fanfiction; what have I become? I
      heavily recommend reading Harry Potter and the Methods of
      Rationality before this fic, as this is a direct sequel to it. J.K.
      Rowling owns Harry Potter, Eliezer Yudkowsky has thankfully
      forfeited ownership of the methods of rationality to humanity in
      general, and I own very little, being broke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Themes that may trigger traumatic associations in some readers
      are present in chapters twenty two and twenty four.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">muttering to themselves, constantly</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">a growing grid of points in space</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">arranged with perfect regularity, and no gaps</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">ignoring the world around them and each other</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">now it is complete</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. and Mrs. Weasley had seven children and were perfectly
      content leading lives they considered perfectly normal, thank you
      very much. Arthur Weasley had a desk job at the Ministry of Magic,
      where he gave people notice that they had illegally modified Muggle
      artifacts and would have to pay a fine or face the Wizengamot. His
      favorite hobby was illegally modifying Muggle artifacts – in the
      privacy of his own home, of course. He was very familiar with the
      network of enforcement wards he would have to avoid to avoid being
      caught, and this familiarity was his favorite perk of his job.
      Despite Arthur's fascination with Muggles, he did not know any, nor
      had he ever spoken to one for longer than five minutes. The
      Weasleys were a well-known pureblood family, and few of Arthur's
      friends were Muggleborn - "not that there's anything wrong with
      that," he would add.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Molly Weasley was a housewife, and as she was the mother of a
      family of nine, one can see how this would consume all of her time,
      even if they were rarely all in the house at once – the summer
      holiday could really be hellish. Her eldest, Bill, was living at
      home; he had been fired from a promising Gringotts position years
      ago for psychological reasons and would probably not find the
      willpower to take his medication alone. Charlie had moved out to
      study abroad, but she doubted she would ever see any grandchildren
      from him; Charlie was queer like that. But with seven possible
      heirs, that was not a matter of grave concern. Percy was entering
      his sixth year in Hogwarts, and had a promising future in the
      Ministry. Fred and George (members of the increasingly common
      demographic of magical twins) were entering their fourth. Ron was
      entering his second, and Ginny – little Ginevra was entering her
      first. With the beginning of the new school year, for the first
      time in many years, it would just be Arthur, Molly, and Bill at
      home. What a day to think about! Arthur and Molly were arguing, as
      they often did, about that day. They spoke sharply, and often
      resorted to shouting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm telling you, I knew him," said Arthur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did too," said Molly. "Better, even."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was no great wizard," said Arthur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps not with magic," said Molly, "but with people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He tried to join the Order and was practically laughed out of
      the room!" said Arthur, increasingly exasperated. "Do you realize
      the implications of that fact? We were strapped for everything and
      needed all the help we could get! But he was a joke! Completely
      incompetent!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He came off that way at times," said Molly, "but he showed
      sparks of potential. I don't find it surprising that he shaped up
      eventually, let alone unimaginable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sparks of potential, my arse," said Arthur. "I don't know who
      Minerva thinks she's dealing with, but he's not who he says he is.
      Gilderoy Lockhart is plainly either an impostor or a fraud, and
      frankly, it concerns me that he's one of the first decisions the
      new Headmistress has made. Dumbledore is irreplaceable, but I'd
      never thought so lowly of-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gilderoy Lockhart is a late bloomer," said Molly. "That's
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A late bloomer," said Arthur. "I'm sorry, I'm not buying
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is known to happen!" said Molly. "Merlin was particularly
      unimpressive in his younger years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, because he was growing feeble and senile," said
      Arthur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know Merlin was no ordinary wizard," said Molly. "But my
      point-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have a point," said Arthur, "and I-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My point is that you're probably just jealous and trying to
      justify to yourself why he suddenly jumped from average midlife
      blah to Mysterious Dark Attractive Rising Hero and you're still
      stuck in average midlife blah," said Molly, all in one breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jealous?" was all Arthur got out, before he realized to his
      dismay that his wife did, indeed, have a point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If anything, I think the suspicious part about him is his ties
      to the Muggle world," said Molly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, here we go on this again," said Arthur. "How many times
      have I told you, Molly, Muggles are mostly harmless-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but what business does a pureblood wizard have cavorting
      with Muggles?" said Molly. "I suspect that he's actually a
      half-blood or Muggleborn, visiting relatives-" Arthur looked at his
      wife as though she had just grown a second and third head and
      declared herself a secret hydra. "-no, Arthur, I haven't turned
      into a blood purist. It's just that on all of his records, he says
      he's a pureblood; that's what he tells people, but I think he might
      have had some documents forged."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As many wizards did, to dissuade You-Know-Who from targeting
      them," said Arthur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly," said Molly. "I don't think he's suspicious at all.
      And you can say Voldemort; he's quite dead now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten feet above, in the Burrow's third-floor Potions cellar,
      Ginny Weasley sighed. This was her favorite hiding spot in the
      Weasley family's multi-story, labyrinthine, magically makeshift
      house, a rarely visited, secluded place where she could escape from
      a family she found dull and exhausting. She was lying on her back,
      still but restless, burning with irritation towards her parents.
      Ginny's mother and father often argued, and she wondered at their
      patience that they had never gotten divorced, but this was simply
      the dumbest argument she had heard them having in months. They were
      talking past each other, failing to consider each other's points,
      missing vital evidence, and failing to fully consider the evidence
      of which they were aware.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">First off, Ginny's father was right. A failure of a wizard
      suddenly making something of himself later in life and becoming a
      household name, a legendary hero, over the course of mere months,
      was rather dubious. But, as Ginny's mother failed to point out,
      there was a massive gap in the timeline; nobody present had seen or
      spoken to Lockhart since the war, and few details of his life in
      that decade were public knowledge except that he was often known to
      live with Muggles. That made for a potential explanation of
      Lockhart's sudden rise, which Ginny's mother had missed – Muggles
      had a much more creative, industrious spirit than wizards, as a
      general matter of culture, and living among them for years might
      have unlocked hidden talents in Gilderoy that allowed him to make
      more of himself in the wizarding world. But Ginny still gave her
      father a point for this: there was a massive hole in the record,
      which could be considered "suspicious", and which her mother seemed
      to be desperately trying to ignore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But second off, and seemingly evading both of Ginny's parents'
      notice, the Defense Professor at Hogwarts was supposed to be
      incredibly suspicious. Gilderoy Lockhart wasn't half as suspicious
      as his predecessor, Quirinus Quirrell, now known to be David
      Monroe. Monroe's mysterious identity and incongruous skills had
      ultimately proven to be part of a plot to save the school from
      Voldemort, and that plot had gone off without a hitch. Why did
      Ginny's parents think this year would be any different? Perhaps
      they hadn't been tracking the events of Hogwarts' previous year as
      closely as Ginny had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had all started with Harry, Harry Potter. Ginny had, of
      course, first heard of Harry Potter many years ago, so many years
      ago she could not remember the precise occasion. It was simply part
      of her learning about the world around her, just as she was taught
      of the existence of gnomes, or France, or the moon. They celebrated
      Harry Potter Day each year, the day after Halloween, asking each
      other various questions to ensure his famous infancy was not
      forgotten. Every year the holiday seemed a little less exciting and
      new to Ginny; on some level she was growing sick of all of her
      routines. But that had all changed around last September, when
      Ginny had had a brief chance encounter with Harry at King's Cross,
      and it truly hit her what she had intellectually known for her
      whole life: Harry Potter was not the mystical Power-Baby she had
      heard about every first of November for years, but a real person
      with a future ahead of him, and for that matter was only a little
      older than Ginny. More than that, it hit her that Harry was
      cute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so, from home, Ginny followed every scrap of information she
      could about Hogwarts, hoping to learn more about Harry. She
      accomplished her goal, finding not just accounts of his escapades
      but of his personality, of what he was like. He preferred to go by
      his full name, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, an allusion to his
      Muggle childhood from which he learned his unique ways. He was
      clever enough to outsmart He-Who-May-Now-Be-Named, and to nobody's
      surprise he was Sorted into Ravenclaw, torpedoing the Weasley
      family notion that Gryffindor was the best House. He was altruistic
      enough to be a Hufflepuff, though too clever, and what ultimately
      drove him was his deep concern for all humanity. And he was
      mysterious enough to do absolutely anything without so much as
      snapping his fingers, even winning the heart of a young
      dissatisfied Weasley girl who lived many miles away. Every night
      Ginny dreamed that he would appear at her windowsill, perhaps in a
      flying car - he did like enchanting Muggle devices, much as her own
      father did - and take her away from this hell hole.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the Incident Where Voldemort Was Destroyed Again Under
      Mysterious Circumstances That Harry Probably Set Up, summer had
      commenced, and Harry had begun publishing a sort of periodical, the
      Methods of Rationality, devoted to promoting "critical thinking
      skills and metacognition" in wizards. Of course Ginny lapped it up.
      Though she had accepted by this point that a Muggleborn prodigy,
      Hermione Granger, was probably Harry's True Love, and her fantasies
      were just fantasies, she was delighted to find that the Methods of
      Rationality provided clarity in her life, and her hero worship of
      Harry continued. They simply outlined how to properly think, and
      how to avoid common pitfalls in the process.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They also confirmed her slowly-growing lifelong notion that
      there was something fundamentally wrong with her family, that only
      she could see. None of Ginny's siblings nor either of her parents
      ever seemed willing to think about a problem for even a minute.
      They never cared to find the optimal solution to anything, only the
      nearby one. Ginny touched the crucifix pendant resting on her chest
      and sighed. For all the irritation they provided, they were still
      her family, and she still loved them, out of storge if nothing
      else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone crashed into the cellar door and began to fumble with
      the lock, trying to get in. Oh, what now, thought Ginny. Will this
      endless string of interruptions never cease? Who could this be?
      Bill? Fred or George?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is someone in there? Ginny? Stupid little sister, you know
      you're not allowed." Ron. As her nearest older brother continued to
      fail Magical Lockpicking 101, Ginny made no noise, holding in even
      her breath, and wished for some force, any force, to take her away
      from here, away from this world of noises and siblings and
      Weasleys. And some force did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny found herself immediately outside, looking up at the
      Burrow from the tall grass that surrounded it. She was far too
      young to legally Apparate, but, as she had not yet started her
      formal magical education, she was still subject to the effects of
      Accidental Magic, a branch of magic theorized to exist to protect
      children in stressful - possibly life-threatening - situations.
      With time, her education at Hogwarts would allow her to harness the
      same power, and, in fact, more, and carefully and deliberately at
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"RONALD WEASLEY! WHAT ARE YOU DOING IN MY POTIONS CELLAR?" Ginny
      could hear her mother's voice even from this distance and through
      magically-reinforced walls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny was in here, honest!" pleaded Ron. "I was looking for
      her!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"IS THAT SO?" screamed Molly Weasley. Ginny turned away from the
      Burrow and ran, as if from a Velociraptor.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
