<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 15: Blackmail in Game Theory, Aftermath, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: Blackmail in Game Theory, Aftermath</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, Lesath Lestrange:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath tapped his foot nervously, and waited for the staircase
      to the Headmistress's office to present itself to him. A
      disgusted-looking Professor Slughorn had instructed him to report
      to the Headmistress at once. People looked disgusted at him all the
      time, but given the context, Lesath's heart was pounding, and his
      mind was racing through every bad thing he had ever done, wondering
      which one he would be expelled for – or if perhaps he was
      overestimating the severity of the situation, and he would simply
      be suspended or killed. The staircase turned to face him, and he
      ascended to meet his fate. First she spoke something inaudible into
      her desk, and then she turned to confront Lesath directly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Lestrange?" said the Headmistress. "Please sit down." She
      sounded calm and sympathetic, and not in the fake-calm manner of
      someone planning to expel, suspend, or kill you. So Lesath sat
      down, and kept an open mind, and barely even wondered what was
      going on. "I am afraid that this conversation will not be pleasant,
      but given the wider circumstances occurring at the school, that is
      frankly a relief."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it," muttered Lesath; he was still fairly certain he
      was in trouble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have turned out to be our first false alarm," said the
      Headmistress, "and quite an alarm, too. Your case has demonstrated
      a rather severe flaw in my initial plan, which is that, while
      children are certainly not to be ignored, immaturity is considered
      a character flaw for a reason. You see..." She paused, and
      considered how to relate the recent events to him. "After I
      announced to the school that, to find the 'Heir of Slytherin',
      anything suspicious should be reported without question, I was
      immediately inundated with reports about you. Nearly all of them
      from girls, most all of them from younger Slytherin girls."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?" said Lesath. He was trying and failing to hide his
      anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For the sake of obvious privacy concerns, I am not at liberty
      to say," said the Headmistress. "Now, of course I followed up on
      these reports, asking for specifics on what about you they
      considered suspicious. A few of them lied, providing half-baked and
      easily falsified stories designed to incriminate you as the Heir;
      they will be disciplined for malicious abuse of Hogwarts resources.
      But most of them simply described your general behavior and
      demeanor as of late. They did not seem to understand that your
      behavior is suggestive not of a secret Dark Lord, but of an awkward
      teenage boy who is out-of-touch with social norms and standards. In
      short, the system I created zeroed in on you not because you were a
      reasonable suspect, but because you were unpopular." Lesath looked
      back and forth, deep in thought, and the Headmistress stopped
      because she could see that he needed to process this, though she
      was at a natural stopping point anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why are you telling me all of this?" said Lesath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because," said the Headmistress, starting slowly, "though your
      accusers did not choose the correct venue to put forward their
      concerns, we are still glad to have found out, because Hogwarts
      does not tolerate inappropriate or boundary-violating behavior,
      particularly of a sexual nature. This is your first warning. If the
      behavior continues, you will be given detention, and ultimately
      will face criminal charges, suspension, or even expulsion if it
      goes further. Is this understood?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Lesath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you feel you need to learn more about social boundaries and
      norms, I could direct you to a professional-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Lesath, and the Headmistress frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I advise that you don't bother anyone anytime soon," said the
      Headmistress. "Now, go. Off. It's bad enough dealing with the Heir
      of Slytherin and Slytherin's Monster without awkward teenage boys
      too." She halfheartedly smiled, and Lesath did, too, and left.
      Girls were so weird. Perhaps he wouldn't find romance until after
      graduation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What long years those would be.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, Draco Malfoy:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Harry," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Draco," said Harry. He seemed oddly uncomfortable to be
      talking to Draco. First, Harry apparently hadn't been very
      well-trained in the Slytherin arts, if he was this bad at hiding
      his discomfort. Second, his discomfort was very disconcerting.
      Draco thought he had chose to stop talking to Harry, not the other
      way around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've wanted to talk to you, about... what's been going on,"
      said Draco. "Do you have time now, or are you busy?" Harry groaned,
      and instinctively reached for his pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I always have time," said Harry, and they found a quiet space
      with a bench. Harry cast as many anti-eavesdropping spells as he
      considered appropriate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," said Draco. "We haven't talked in quite some time. How
      have you been? What have you been up to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been fine," said Harry, "and I've mostly been up to
      official business I'm afraid I can't tell you, or nearly any of my
      classmates, about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said Draco, concealing his irritation entirely. "Do
      you have any more idea than the rest of us what's going on, who's
      causing trouble?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps a bit, but not much," said Harry. "If we'd caught the
      perpetrator, they would already be publicly known and behind bars.
      The only alternate case I can see is if we'd caught them but they'd
      escaped, in which case their identity and that we'd caught them
      would still be publicly known. The problem is that we don't even
      have a testable hypothesis, Draco. We don't even have any suspects.
      We had a couple of suspects at first, but they were very quickly
      cleared." Draco frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a Parselmouth, Potter," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I know," said Harry. "That's why I was one of the initial
      suspects. But I can't be the person doing this, Draco. I have no
      interest whatsoever in breaking the Line of Merlin Unbroken or the
      Interdict of Merlin. In fact, there are reasons I can't tell you
      about that I believe breaking either of those would be a very bad
      thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't mean to cast aspersions on you," said Draco, "but
      couldn't that simply mean that you're the perpetrator and you're
      playing one level higher? Trying to drum up pro-Interdict
      sentiment, to protect it?" Harry swallowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one's thought of that as far as I know," said Harry. "I'd
      barely even considered that. It's technically plausible, but there
      are Muggles who believe in such plans, they're known as 'false flag
      operations', and the Muggles who are most inclined to believe that
      they've happened are generally extremely cognitively deficient, but
      I can't think of any particular reason that couldn't be what
      happened here. It couldn't have been me, though; as far as I know,
      there is no nearby risk of the Line of Merlin Unbroken breaking.
      It's just not something that could be done. Whoever is causing all
      of this trouble is misinformed about how the Line works, either
      because they're demanding we destroy it, which is impossible, or
      because they're trying to protect it from being destroyed, which is
      also impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," said Draco. "Whoever did this is still definitely a
      Parselmouth. Do you know any other Parselmouths around the school?
      Parselmouths are supposed to know each other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was only aware of one other Parselmouth at the school," said
      Harry, "and she was also one of the initial suspects."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Granger-" started Draco. Harry smiled. "It is Granger,
      isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are very perceptive, Draco," said Harry. "Don't let her
      know you know, though; she would kill me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And she was aware of one other Parselmouth at the school," said
      Harry, "who to the best of my knowledge was investigated and
      cleared when it was determined he didn't even know he was a
      Parselmouth before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So there's a secret Parselmouth at school," said Draco. "Either
      a student or a teacher. Lockhart-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," said Harry. "I have an alternate theory, though.
      Voldemort was a Parselmouth, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No..." said Draco, not because he didn't know, but because he
      could already tell that Potter was leading into some deeper
      horrifying revelation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort might not be completely dead," said Harry. "I
      believe, based on evidence, that he has objects lying around in
      random places, by which he might possess someone – a teacher or
      student at Hogwarts, for example. And then, theoretically, he could
      speak in Parseltongue, and open the Chamber." Draco stared into
      space for something like twenty seconds, with the most appalled
      look on his face. "What? What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I might have-" Draco's voice went out, and Harry shot
      up out of his seat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" asked Harry, with much more force, and he
      directed Draco to stand up and walk with him – and quickly,
      too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      "IhadamysteriousobjectlefttomebymyfatherthatcouldwriteandthinklikeahumananditconvincedmetogiveittoanotherHogwartsstudentGinnyWeasleyandohmyGodisshegoingtobeokay?"
      said Draco, keeping up with Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Follow me," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we going to find Ginny, and save her?" said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably," said Harry, "but we're talking to the Headmistress
      first. I want you to tell her everything you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," said Draco, "but what if the Headmistress can't do
      anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then we won't be able to do anything either," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will we be able to save her?" said Draco. "Will she be
      punished?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Assuming that your suggested explanation is the correct one,"
      said Harry, "which seems like the Occam's Razor solution at the
      moment, then we will almost certainly be able to save her, and she
      will almost certainly not be punished. Nobody is held accountable
      for things they do while they're possessed. Like-" Harry stopped
      himself from saying something, and Draco wondered what it could
      possibly be. Here was the entrance to the Headmistress's room.
      Harry approached the password-receiving gargoyle, but was
      interrupted by-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry! Draco!" said Professor Lockhart. "What are you doing
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No time, Professor," said Harry, and he whispered something
      Draco somehow managed not to hear at all. Absolutely nothing
      happened, and Harry repeated whatever he'd just said. "Why isn't it
      working?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Headmistress is in a particularly private meeting with a
      student," said Professor Lockhart, "and I advise that you return in
      ten minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But this is more important!" said Harry. "This is an
      emergency!" A suspicion was beginning to sneak up on Draco, and
      Professor Lockhart raised an eyebrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" said the Professor. "What kind of emergency?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, Cho Chang:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from
      Immanuel's veins, and sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all
      their guilty stains.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Cedric's body was lowered into the cold and lonely ground,
      Cho Chang failed to hear the words of the hymn being sung. It was
      just as well; she was not an adherent of the religion in which the
      words had significance. Nor, for that matter, was the majority of
      the choir singing it. It was just a tradition, a funeral tradition,
      an ancient thing that goes unquestioned and largely unseen, a
      specific type of prior that can be particularly difficult to root
      out. It was simply how the funeral was supposed to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this funeral was not supposed to be at all. It wasn't
      supposed to go like this. Cho Chang was supposed to become a widow
      – or create a widower – around age 200. She wasn't supposed to be
      mourning the love of her life at 13. Of course, Cedric wasn't truly
      the love of Cho's life – apparently. Because she would live much,
      much longer. Wouldn't she? Actually, with the advent of the
      Peverell Family Hospital, she never had to die at all. …Cedric had
      never had to die at all. They could have truly been together
      forever, exploring the stars in some magic craft of Harry's. Why
      had that been ripped away from her? Why had Cedric been ripped away
      from everybody? Cho tried to feel hatred or anger at whoever had
      done this, but she was not capable; her grief was too overwhelming
      of an emotion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When he laughed, you swore you'd never cry again," Cho had told
      a reporter, through tears, before the funeral had begun. But Cho
      didn't want to talk to anyone, least of all the press. She just
      wanted to think, but that was too hard; depression releases
      chemicals in the brain that inhibit regular thinking. So she just
      wanted to take in the world around her, and judge it. Nobody else
      at the funeral looked nearly sad enough. They all looked sad, just
      not enough. It was as if they had all gotten so used to carrying
      out funerals that they were simply playing a role, and it had
      slipped their minds how genuinely awful it all was, particularly
      now, now that we were all so close to the finish line that the
      Philosopher's Stone represented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Malfoys were sitting next to the Weasleys. The Malfoys were
      sitting next to the Weasleys. The Malfoys didn't even seem bothered
      by that. Had Cedric's death truly shaken everybody up that much?
      That made Cho feel ever so infinitesimally better. Draco Malfoy had
      lost his father last year, hadn't he? Cho supposed she would find
      no shortage at Hogwarts of people who had experienced death. She
      still felt particularly alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It occurred to Cho that with the advent of the Philosopher's
      Stone, there was absolutely no reason that anything like this
      should ever happen again. Accidents and murders? If anything short
      of immediately or quickly lethal damage could be recovered, why
      wouldn't you minimize risk as much as possible? There was no reason
      whatsoever that this couldn't or shouldn't be Cho's last funeral.
      There was no reason whatsoever that this couldn't or shouldn't be
      the last funeral in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cho had not been able to cast her Patronus, not since she had
      learned of Cedric's death in certain terms. She was still
      recovering from her mental reeling, and would not return to
      Hogwarts until January, still in miserable condition. But it was
      that thought – the last funeral in the world – that would allow Cho
      to cast a different Patronus, several years afterwards.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, Tom Riddle Prime:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man who could not even remember his own name drifted through
      space, amidst Platonic forms and timeless physics. He was and was
      not a gemstone, and so he could and could not think – like a
      sleeping man, he was vaguely aware of everything around him, but he
      could not hold onto any of it. He could not think, and he could not
      remember; he could not even long for the day he would be free. He
      could only perceive and dream, like an Elder God that had once been
      human and would someday be human once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmistress," said the boy, who was wearing the man who could
      not even remember his own name, "I am becoming increasingly certain
      of one of my first hypotheses, that this is the work of a horcrux
      of Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought he was on your person," said the older woman, and she
      gestured at the finger that held the man. "And in this state, he
      could not access his horcruxes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is," said the boy, "and he can't, but he made two types of
      horcruxes. We have been referring to the more advanced type. He
      also made a more primitive kind, with entirely different
      properties." The older woman frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Properties that you suspect leave them dangerous," said the
      older woman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, absolutely," said the boy. "Because instead of being
      connected to the main Voldemort, and therefore being vulnerable to
      attacks on Voldemort's main body that also influence his soul, they
      contain an entirely independent copy of Voldemort, diverging from
      the original at the moment that they're created." The older woman
      grew a look of horror. "The only possible complicating factor,
      which is completely ambiguous, is that I was under the impression
      Voldemort had destroyed many, most, or all of them himself, when he
      moved onto the more advanced sort of horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said the older woman. "Not Tom Riddle. He always had some
      sort of backup plan in mind in case we defeated his first
      intentions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of the original Tom Riddle, though," said the boy,
      "I'd prefer that we not keep him on my person anymore. Even with
      all of the extra security measures you've placed on Hermione and
      me, I feel the risk is too large, particularly if I'm correct that
      it's another Tom Riddle doing all of this." He removed the gemstone
      that was the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If not on your person, then where?" asked the older woman, and
      she visibly panicked and squirmed away. "The Transfiguration must
      be sustained."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said the boy, "but it doesn't need to be sustained by
      myself. It was foolish to assume it did in the first place; I'm too
      important to put another egg in my basket like that. It should
      preferably be sustained by someone trusted off-campus. I'd suggest
      Moody, but he seems a bit obvious. How about a high-ranking
      Unspeakable? I can't imagine any Dark Lord catching Bode
      off-guard..."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
