<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 16: Programming, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 16: Programming</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">In Charms class, on the first day that classes resumed, Ginny
      was distracted. She could afford to; she had a natural talent for
      Charms. Was it right to pursue Draco and Harry simultaneously? Tim
      had dismissed the matter as girlish foolishness immediately upon
      hearing of it, so she had tried to block it out of her mind, to
      feel more mature. But it was a serious concern. Perhaps almost as
      serious as the question of whether it was right to pursue either of
      them. Ginny certainly felt like a girl, and was physically one so
      far as anyone could tell, but her soul said something different,
      and it was a routinely-made point, where Ginny came from, that the
      soul was what truly counted, in the end. The Bible prescribed awful
      punishments for male homosexuality, though those punishments had
      been abandoned long ago, and secularism, the most dominant religion
      in the modern wizarding world, thought it was cruel even to
      disapprove of the practice. Ginny would hate to wind up in Hell
      over some dumb misunderstanding about her gender, and even though
      her view of God's omnibenevolence suggested that that was an
      absurdity, it was still enough of a looming possibility to concern
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna," Ginny had said, just before class started. "I have a
      very personal question to ask you, about something very secret. Can
      I trust you to keep it between us?" Luna had put a hand just in
      front of her mouth in a futile attempt to hide that she was smiling
      more widely than she normally was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, of course," said Luna. "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, um," said Ginny. "When I got to Hogwarts, I discovered
      something very surprising and very distressing about myself.
      Basically, there was a mess with some wards, and then I learned
      from Madam Pomfrey that my soul says that I'm a boy." Luna had not
      looked confused at all; it would have been very odd if she had.
      "But I don't feel like a boy, and I never have. I'm not
      biologically a boy, or even ambiguous. So, to go forward, just,
      what am I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny, of course you're a girl," said Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why?" said Ginny. "Are you sure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Luna. "You're sure. Because it's in your head. The
      mind's the final arbiter of this kind of thing, because the body
      can be changed with magic – especially now, with the Philosopher's
      Stone, come to think of it – and the soul contains – roughly half a
      page of text. That's all. It can be wrong." Ginny had frowned,
      because that was not her understanding of what a soul was at all.
      "And also, I like you, so I'm pretty sure you're a girl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come again?" said Ginny, and there had been a long pause, as
      Luna had just been smiling, before a sudden realization. "Oh." Luna
      had nodded, and Ginny had realized that, given the vast gulf
      between their worldviews, Luna's opinion didn't mean much to her,
      except insofar as she was a friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lesson today was of particular interest to Ginny. One of the
      spells being taught today was a castable form of the Remembrall's
      magic, which, upon being correctly cast, shot up a number of black
      sparks proportional to the number of things forgotten by the
      caster. Ginny consistently produced more sparks with the Charm than
      anyone else in the class, which at least vaguely concerned her.
      Luna, conversely, produced the fewest; each time she correctly cast
      the spell, only a single projectile emanated from her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was thinking about the nature of Charms, and about her
      first day at Hogwarts – specifically, the moment when she had been
      knocked unconscious by some Parseltongue enchantment. She carefully
      thought about what she remembered of Professor Flitwick's
      description of the spell, and decided that, as a Parselmouth
      herself, and a future Charms Master, it was her responsibility to
      learn it, as she could make better use of it than nearly anyone. So
      she lingered after class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Flitwick," said Ginny. "I'd like to ask a question.
      There's a spell I'd like to learn, but I want to know if it's
      feasible for me to learn it at my level, and as far as I know,
      you're the only one who knows it to teach it to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What spell?" said the Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what it's called," said Ginny, "but it's the spell
      you described to me on the first day, that you used to drown out
      the secret message on the Sorting Hat – and, I'm assuming, that was
      used to put the secret message on the Sorting Hat in the first
      place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," said Professor Flitwick. "That <em class="calibre8">is</em> a surprisingly
      easy Charm – I'd probably say second year, but you've shown
      surprising talent. I could easily teach it to you before my next
      class, but I want to get the approval of the Headmistress first; it
      wasn't a secret when I found it, just obscure, but that might have
      changed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Ginny, and Professor Flitwick showed himself out
      of the room. Somewhere, Ginny heard the sound of a Patronus being
      cast. A slight delay, and several Patronuses later...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," said Professor Flitwick. "I've gotten permission to
      teach you this spell, but I want it to be very clear that you
      should inform me on a weekly basis of any novel uses of the spell
      that you invent. And I fully expect you to invent novel uses of the
      spell, because you're a Parselmouth, and therefore have access to
      much more of the spell's potential than I ever did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Understood," said Ginny. Professor Flitwick nodded, and
      displayed his wand; Ginny instinctively reached for her own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now – first the wand movement," said Professor Flitwick. "The
      physical wand movement is very simple. The thoughts you must focus
      on simultaneously with the wand movement are more complicated, but
      still simple in their own way, but I'll get to them next. To cast
      this spell, you must trace an equilateral triangle in the air. The
      exact size of the triangle does not matter, as long as each side is
      equal in length. The bottom side of the triangle should parallel
      the horizon, assuming that you're standing upright, and the order
      of the sides should be left, bottom, right. So you start and end at
      the top point of the triangle." He demonstrated all of this in the
      air in front of him as he explained. "Is that all very clear?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ginny, and she mirrored Professor Flitwick's
      movements, though not reversed, until she had gotten it right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, then, for the thoughts," said Professor Flitwick. "While
      tracing the left side of the triangle, focus on where you want the
      'node' generated by the spell to be. Whatever location you choose
      must be relative to an object. You could choose a portable object,
      like a ball or a stick, and therefore have a portable node. Or you
      could choose something fixed, like Hogwarts or the Earth itself, if
      you want the node to be fixed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While tracing the bottom side of the triangle," said Professor
      Flitwick, "focus on what conditions you want to activate the node.
      I don't know exactly how versatile this step is. The nodes seem to
      have some sensory mechanism that they're capable of examining; at
      least enough that 'the Sorting Hat says Slytherin' can be a
      condition. I was able to confirm that they don't have access to all
      human knowledge, only the sensory information immediately
      surrounding them. Like many idealistic fools, I am eagerly awaiting
      the invention of a Charm that accidentally grants its user
      effective omniscience or omnipotence, in the hopes of getting to it
      first, even though Magical Theorists say it's impossible. So of
      course I took the time to check if this spell was it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While tracing the right side of the triangle, focus on what you
      want the node to say when activated," said Professor Flitwick.
      "This is the feature of the Charm I am not able to make full use
      of, as the nodes only speak in Parseltongue, and you may not even
      correctly cast this step without being a Parselmouth yourself. I
      was able to find a workaround, as you know – sorry – but I was
      fully aware of the potential uses of the spell that I had no access
      to, which was disheartening. I envy the uses you are sure to find
      here." Ginny didn't know whether to seem proud or sorry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you have completed the triangle, say the incantation –
      '<em class="calibre8">Sapespeck</em>' – and the Charm is complete," said Professor
      Flitwick. "Several interesting notes about the result – the
      resulting node is invisible to anyone except for the original
      caster, who sees it as a bright green dot suspended in space. The
      node does not consume any of the original caster's magic, or at
      least not a large enough portion of the original caster's magic
      that I was able to tell after creating a hundred of them. Judging
      by Slytherin's node on the Sorting Hat, it continues well after the
      original caster's death. And it's resistant to magic-canceling
      spells like '<em class="calibre8">Finite Incantatem'</em>, except, again, from the
      original caster. All-in-all, it's a very powerful, very versatile
      Charm. If its use weren't limited to Parseltongue, almost all of
      Hogwarts would know it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," said Professor Flitwick, "would you like to try? Affix a
      node to an object somewhere in this room, and give it a simple
      condition we can easily check."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Ginny. She was fairly certain she had understood
      everything Professor Flitwick had said – perhaps she had even
      understood some things he'd said that he hadn't understood himself.
      Swish-swish-swish. "<em class="calibre8">Sapespeck</em>." A green dot appeared above
      Professor Flitwick's desk. Ginny was impressed with herself; even
      she often took multiple times to get a Charm right, and those were
      first year Charms. Perhaps being a Parselmouth helped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did it work?" asked Professor Flitwick. Ginny nodded, smiled,
      put her wand down, and clapped. A hollow voice said:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ssalutationss, sschool.</em>"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In her first day of usage, Ginny discovered a variety of nuances
      of the Sapespeck Charm that Professor Flitwick had not happened
      upon. If you cast the Charm not-quite-right, but close enough for
      it to tell that you'd tried to cast it, a voice would tell you, in
      Parseltongue, a rudimentary description of what you had done wrong.
      You couldn't create two nodes in the same place – if you tried, the
      Charm would tell you: "<em class="calibre8">You have made a misstake. Sspecks musst
      occupy different pointss in sspace.</em>" You could create them so
      close together that the green dots that indicated them overlapped,
      though – in fact, you could even create them so close together that
      they might as well, for all practical purposes, have been in the
      same place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The truth requirements of Parseltongue coming from Sapespeck
      nodes were slightly looser than the regular truth requirements. The
      caster needed to either believe that what they were saying was
      currently true, or that it would probably be true when the node was
      activated; either was sufficient. Ginny thoroughly tested this, and
      was able to produce nodes that said false things in Parseltongue –
      one node, for example, would, upon hearing a clap, say "<em class="calibre8">There
      iss a coin under me</em>," because it was true when the node was
      initially created, even though Ginny immediately removed the Knut
      after casting. If Ginny attempted to produce a node that was true
      in neither sense – neither when it was created nor in the probable
      event that it was activated – then she would receive only a
      "<em class="calibre8">You have made a misstake. Invalid ssnake wordss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The nodes were not much smarter than you would expect from a
      Charm. On one occasion, Ginny tried to make a node that would hiss
      words of encouragement at Slytherins when they passed, and she
      simply received a "<em class="calibre8">You have made a misstake. Invalid
      conditionss.</em>" She was still able to achieve her goal, though,
      by changing her mental wording to "when you see robes with green
      trim". The only other notable limitation she encountered was that
      she could not affix nodes to her own wand – the response to that
      was "<em class="calibre8">You have made a misstake. Sspecks may only be removed by
      casster, and musst be able to be removed."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny had one idea that she was particularly excited to show
      Harry Potter. She barely completed it in time for their date.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you have to look at this," said Ginny, and she held up a
      piece of paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's blank," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ginny. "But I've enchanted it. Say an addition
      problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought we were here to discuss your Wizard Christianity,"
      said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can get to that next," said Ginny. "I thought you'd think
      this was neat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two plus four," said Harry, shrugging.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ssixx</em>," said the paper, after a quick bout of
      inaudible hissing of code words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Impressive," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do something harder," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two plus one half," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Three</em>," said the paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Ginny. "No, like-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five plus six point four," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Eleven</em>," said the paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I plus I," said Harry. The paper didn't respond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three plus three plus three," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sseven. Ssix,</em>" said the paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I mean bigger numbers," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Harry, disappointed. "Five hundred and ninety three
      plus three hundred and ninety four."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Nine hundred and eighty sseven</em>," said the paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very impressive," said Harry, though that certainly wasn't what
      his face said. "How did you enchant this to speak in
      Parseltongue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a Charm I could teach you," said Ginny. "Professor
      Flitwick taught it to me, although he couldn't make full use of
      it-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because he's not a Parseltongue, of course," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Parselmouth," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's <em class="calibre8">that</em> spell," said Harry. "Got it. So we were
      going to discuss Wizard Christianity, right? Have you ever heard of
      a place called the Department of Mysteries?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been there," said Harry. "I could arrange to take you
      there if you don't believe me, although I'd prefer not to; it's an
      awfully large hassle with a lot of paperwork involved, and it
      shouldn't be necessary, I mean, you trust me, right?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Yes," said Ginny, though she was subconsciously beginning to have
      her doubts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the Department of Mysteries, there's a room called the Time
      Room," said Harry. "Some relatively new and incredibly useful
      magics have been invented there. In the Time Room, there's a
      spatial-temporal anomaly called the Well of Time. The Well of Time
      is an apparently perfectly cylindrical pit, with a sort of spiral
      pattern on the walls. Every full rotation of the spiral – roughly
      every meter and a half – is equivalent to one year. Every year, the
      Well of Time grows one year deeper. It serves as a sort of time
      viewer – if you press your face up against the side, you receive a
      vision of something that's already happened; the only reason it
      can't be used as a spying device is because the visions can't be
      aimed in space – although they tend to be heavily clustered around
      the land surface of the Earth – but they can be aimed in time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm aware of the Well of Time, Harry," said Ginny, and she was
      smiling. She hadn't expected the conversation to start this
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you're aware of its depth?" said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least a million years deep with no end in sight," said
      Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, the exact depth was recently calculated," said Harry,
      "because it was determined that the Well of Time is actually conic,
      allowing its exact size to be determined with very fine
      instruments. It's 4.57 billion years, exactly in line with the
      Muggle estimates of the age of the Earth." He stopped, and realized
      he had gotten sidetracked. "But what do you think the Well of Time
      is, Ginny?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly what you think it is," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a portal to Hell?" said Harry. He frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Ginny, "not a portal to Hell. The Weasleys haven't
      been that deluded since Septimus two generations ago. The Earth
      isn't six thousand years old, Harry, and I'm completely aware of
      that. I'm aware of the Muggle evidence as well as the magical."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you are still a Wizard Christian?" said Harry. Ginny
      nodded. "Ugh. That kind of rationalization is common in the Muggle
      world, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think your mistake is probably that you're fighting the
      hypothesis that the Bible is the perfect word of God," said Ginny,
      "which, to be fair, is a hypothesis that a lot of people hold. But
      it's not a very strong hypothesis to attack. You can break a
      hypothesis like that by pointing out internal contradictions.
      Although, let's be honest, here; most people who believe in that
      hypothesis aren't going to be big on rationalism anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you believe?" said Harry. It was too early for an "and
      why do you believe it?".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe that the Bible is a historical document," said Ginny,
      "no, actually, a collection of disparate historical documents, that
      records events that shine light on the existence and nature of God.
      Their reliability and value varies considerably; the earliest books
      are essentially tribal myths, though there might be some truth in
      them as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you consider the New Testament more relevant to your beliefs
      than the Old Testament, then?" said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ginny, because it was true, although she hadn't
      explicitly said it yet, so she was a touch surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's only one wizard or witch known to have returned from
      death without the use of inherently evil magic," said Harry. "And
      she currently attends this school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are forgetting about Jesus Christ," said Ginny, "who is no
      ordinary wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, was he a double witch, then?" said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is the Son of God," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"According to?" said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Bible! Himself! Prophecy!" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm, prophecy..." said Harry. "Unfortunately, I can't check
      whether it was delivered by a legitimate Seer; the Hall of Prophecy
      has been destroyed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This all happened long before-" started Ginny. "Wait, it
      has?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never mind," said Harry. "Anyway, I have it on good authority
      that Hermione Granger was never truly medically dead; she was only
      dead in a limited, magical sense. You can't actually survive actual
      dying without extremely evil magic, which you need to arrange in
      advance of the death. It's impossible. I suppose you're going to
      say that's the point, and it's a miracle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is indeed the point," said Ginny. "A major theme of what the
      Bible records is miracles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no such thing," said Harry. "Have you ever seen a
      miracle? Do you really believe that they happen, or do you only
      believe that you believe that they happen? Does this world look
      like a world that has miracles in it to you, or does it look like
      one that operates on consistent rules?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the Well of Time?" said Ginny. Harry considered the
      purpose of the question before deciding how to answer it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's either a magical invention or a naturally occurring
      magical phenomena," said Harry. "I'm not sure which, although I
      suspect that all magic is constructed somehow or another, in the
      distant past." Ginny smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You referred to it as an anomaly, and that sounds about right
      to me," said Ginny. "Consider other possible terms for 'anomaly',
      though. A Muggle might just say 'magic', because they don't know
      that that's something normal and understood. Someone like me might
      call it a 'miracle'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny, it's all magic," said Harry. "It's all understandable,
      the question is just whether or not we understand it already. This
      is the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, not the Hogwarts
      School of Prayer and Miracles. There aren't any real miracles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well I'm glad we understand everything, then," said Ginny.
      "I guess the Department of Mysteries can just shut down, then.
      Since there isn't anything mysterious to study."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny, you can't put everything you don't understand yet in a
      box called 'God' or 'miracles' and call it a day," said Harry.
      "That's a God-of-the-gaps argument, and it should be clear why it's
      broken thinking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not saying it's not understandable," said Ginny. "I'm
      saying that anomalies happen, and are important and
      interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you ever heard of theodicy, Ginny?" asked Harry. He had
      just researched the matter over the previous week.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the set of omniscience, omnipotence, omnibenevolence,
      right?" said Ginny. "I've heard of it and believe in it, although
      omniscience is awfully redundant with omnipotence, isn't it? I
      think omnipresence would be a better third quality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Harry. "Theodicy is the question of how, given
      omniscience, omnipotence, and omnibenevolence, how does suffering
      happen, particularly suffering that could widely be agreed on as
      unjust."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Ginny, "the problem of evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Harry. "How do you resolve theodicy, Ginny?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, first off, to truly prevent humans from being evil would
      strip them of all agency," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The free will argument," said Harry. "Classic. But not all
      suffering even results from evil. That's why the problem of evil is
      really just a more mainstream form of theodicy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, secondly," said Ginny, "I don't believe that any
      suffering is of real significance, because an omnibenevolent God
      would permit us all to live forever." Harry was clearly restraining
      himself from something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you believe in Hell, Ginny?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe?" said Ginny. "Probably not? My family told me about it
      as if it were real, but they didn't seem to really believe in it,
      as if they were quoting a fairy tale about Father Christmas at me.
      And my gut tells me that it contradicts omnibenevolence, hard, and
      omnibenevolence is a much more important belief."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, look at my wrist, I've got to go," said Harry, immediately
      rising and heading for the door. "There's an appointment I
      forgot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next Friday, Ginny learned that, "to shake things up",
      Blaise Zabini was the new Vice President of the More Sane
      Squad.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
