<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 18: Mysteries, Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18: Mysteries, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">After a week-long intermission, the story resumes! The
      trigger warning at the beginning of chapter one has, on further
      consideration, been updated.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">9.03 ATLANTIS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.04 BUREAUCRACY</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.05 CHANCE</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.06 DEATH</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.00 EGRESS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.07 FORCE</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.02 HUB</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.08 MINDS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.09 OCEANS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.10 PROPHECY (decommissioned, pending replacement)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.11 LOVE</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.12 REALITY</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.13 SPACE</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.14 TIME</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.15 WORLDS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">9.01 ZERO</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Zacharias Smith was revived shortly after the attack. The good
      news was that no further students were petrified for the remainder
      of the term, or during the winter holidays. The bad news was that
      interviews with Zacharias revealed no new information that could
      lead to Cedric, Justin, and Ernie's killer being apprehended. The
      worse news was that, against the express wishes of the Hogwarts
      administration, rumors circulated that St. Mungo's had neglected to
      manufacture more than one Potion of Reanimation. They were very
      expensive to brew, which explained their being in short supply, but
      they were also very time-consuming to brew, which allowed even
      curable petrification to be a greater threat than it would be, had
      the healers bothered to keep a large reserve supply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just one day later, Luna Lovegood – who was wearing gloves
      herself, coated in Diricawl feathers – returned the diary to
      Ginevra Weasley, whilst smiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what have you figured out?" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I owled it to my dad," said Luna. "And he sent it back with
      this letter, which explains what it is and how to take care of it.
      I'll give it to you so you can find out what it is and how to take
      care of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," said Ginny, and she accepted the parchment, though
      of course she wouldn't read it. The Lovegoods were insane,
      especially in matters like this, and Xenophilius was the reason
      why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll just sum up the major points," said Luna. "It's called a
      horcrux; it contains a soul fragment of a human being and only a
      very advanced dark wizard can make one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, Luna," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's very difficult to destroy," said Luna. "I included a list
      of things you can use to destroy it if the need arises, although I
      don't think you personally have access to any of them. Oh, and it
      can possess people. Normally a horcrux can possess people with
      impunity, as long as they touch it, but this one's been specially
      enchanted not to possess anyone who hasn't consented. Dad says he
      hasn't seen anything like it. Of course I haven't consented to be
      possessed, but I'm still wearing these gloves just to be safe."
      Ginny glanced at Luna's hands, saw no gloves, and took a step back.
      "That's why you're wearing gloves, too, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh huh," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you didn't consent to be possessed either," said Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, no, what are you talking about?" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny Weasley, I swear to Wizard God if you wind up as some
      Dark Lord's possessed stooge because you signed your brain away
      like an idiot, I will hang you from the rafters," said Luna, and
      then she clapped her hands over her mouth. "I didn't mean – I'm
      sorry -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Luna, it's fine," said Ginny. "You're right to be
      concerned. This is serious business. But I haven't signed my life
      away. I know to be conscientious. You've helped me to see that more
      than anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," said Luna; she particularly perked up at this last
      sentiment. "I just - I mean, I thought it was probably some kind of
      serious risk. He tried to get me to agree to possession, and I
      barely managed to distract him by talking about unimportant things
      like Divination and what a creep Lesath is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Ginny. "I'll keep everything you've told me in
      mind. Goodbye!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny later found out from Tim that Luna had been particularly
      unhelpful, paranoid, and unpleasant to talk to, and was not a true
      Seer. Ginny felt sorry for Luna, but couldn't argue with any of
      Tim's points. She soon began making progress with her
      <em class="calibre8">Sapespeck</em> computing, through a combination of Muggle maths
      textbooks, some programming help from Colin (who she still managed
      to keep out of the loop), and her own personal discovery of
      <em class="calibre8">Sapespeck Maxima</em>, a Charm that made editing large
      <em class="calibre8">Sapespeck</em> systems easier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time classes resumed in January, she had constructed a
      more advanced calculator capable of adding - as well as subtracting
      - any indefinitely long sequence of numbers. It could parse
      negative numbers as well as decimals; she had held off on
      supporting fractions until she had a better grasp on what division
      was, though she had added case-by-case patches for phrases like
      "and a half", "and a quarter", and so on, which were interpreted,
      for example, as "point five", "point two five", and so on. Coming
      down the pipeline, though, on a different sheet of paper, was
      limited support for multiplication. Ginny could feel the features
      creeping along like Eclipse Ivy, and she loved it. If she could
      make an inanimate object smarter than herself, then she would.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Just before the spring term began, a notice went out to all
      students that Professor Lockhart was running a Patronus workshop,
      targeted primarily at first years, but also accepting older
      students who had either failed or not attempted to cast a Patronus
      the previous year. Participating, however, required a parent's
      signature on a permission slip, as the workshop would be held in
      the Department of Mysteries. This was not difficult for Ginny to
      obtain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Frankly, it's safer than Hogwarts," said Arthur, as he signed.
      "I've been to the Department of Mysteries before; they were showing
      me Grabthar's Hammer in the Force Room. They thought they were on
      the verge of reverse-engineering it and they thought it might be
      possible to construct more of them without even using magic, so
      they were investigating the possibility that Muggles might figure
      it out. I think it's further off than they seemed to think – but
      anyway, my point is, you'll be herded around by Unspeakables at all
      time; you'll only go where you're supposed to. There are dangerous
      things in the Department of Mysteries, but you wouldn't be able to
      get anywhere near them even if you wanted to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fact that no students were petrified during the Christmas
      break seemed to Ginny to be weak evidence that the culprit was
      someone who, like her, had chosen to go home during the holidays.
      The administration did not even take it that way, though; it would
      be too easy for the attacker to put off their crimes a month to
      push investigations away from themselves. In any case, Ginny had
      more important things on her mind – how could she live with herself
      if she wound up with a standard old Patronus while Harry and
      Hermione remained the only two people in the world with upgraded
      human Patronuses?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Ginny, a Patronus is a journey of personal discovery and
      self-actualization," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you give me that, Harry Potter," said Ginny. "That's not
      how you talk. You're hiding something. How do I get a human
      Patronus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's complicated and dangerous to teach," said Harry. "Even
      just giving you a bad hint could lead to your being permanently
      unable to cast any kind of Patronus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You taught her," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't just teach anyone," said Harry. Ginny pouted, and Harry
      got the look on his face that he always did when he was beginning
      an experiment. "Well, though... I'll give you one hint. But don't
      be too disappointed if you wind up with a regular old animal
      Patronus. It's still better than nothing, if you wind up in a
      combat situation where a Patronus is needed or if you need to
      contact someone or confirm that they're alive. And don't tell
      anyone the hint, or even that I gave you one. I don't want to be
      mobbed by more requests like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the hint?" said Ginny, although she would really rather
      be able to cast nothing at all than be able to cast an animal
      Patronus only. People who couldn't cast Patronuses were at least
      dark and deep and brooding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A regular animal Patronus is powered by a happy memory of the
      past," said Harry. "The True Patronus, the Patronus Two Point Oh,
      is powered by a happy plan for the future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, got it," said Ginny, and she smiled. Harry seemed
      disappointed in her nonchalant approach to hearing this wisdom, and
      left.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny sucked in her breath. She'd largely avoided Hermione, out
      of some kind of uncontrollable, irrational hatred. It was a source
      of some regret for her, and in retrospect had feelings had spiraled
      beyond anything reasonable, but nonetheless, she would definitely
      make an exception to her "steer-clear-of-Hermione" policy now. She
      had something practical to accomplish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi, Hermione," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny Weasley?" said Hermione. "Hello, I haven't seen much of
      you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that so," muttered Ginny, and Hermione nearly left for the
      Ravenclaw table, because it wasn't completely clear that she still
      had something to say. "There's something Harry asked me to ask
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I asked Harry how to make a Patronus like his, and he gave me –
      me exclusively, that is – a hint, and he told me to ask you for
      another one," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that so?" said Hermione, and Ginny nodded. "Hmm... Dementors
      are a riddle, and the upgraded Patronus is the answer. Or is that
      the hint he already gave you?" Ginny nodded; if she was going to
      lie to get extra hints, she might as well get three instead of two.
      "Alright, then... Harry's Patronus was directly tied to my
      resurrection." Ginny was barely able to prevent her mouth from
      hanging open. "I hope that was helpful! Goodbye!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How on Earth could Ginny even hope to compete with a girl Harry
      had literally brought back from the brink of death with a historic
      spell of his own invention?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait! Hermione!" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are your views on the existence of an afterlife?" asked
      Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," said Hermione, immediately flustered. "I mean,
      you're not trying to weasel more hints out of me? Are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Ginny. "I've just been thinking about it lately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Hermione. "Harry told me about you. Between you and
      me, I think you can believe whatever you want, but, personally, I
      don't believe in that. For a brief while, my faith in that actually
      shot up after I, y'know, came back to life, but Harry broke the
      illusion for me. He had to. Visions that can be interpreted as an
      afterlife are reasonably common in people who have near-death
      experiences, but it's a purely neurochemical phenomenon, not
      supernatural at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Ginny. <em class="calibre8">A single sub-belief point of evidence for
      a deeply-held belief will not invalidate that belief if it is
      itself invalidated. Do not allow that fear to prevent you from
      updating your beliefs, or even allow it to make you more skeptical
      of facts that broadly suggest that your deeply-held beliefs are
      wrong.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And anyway, no, that's not for me," said Hermione. "I haven't
      seen a good debate about it, ever, but I do know what my position
      is. I think Harry is being monstrously unfair to you, by the way;
      if you feel the same, then feel free to talk to me about it. Is
      there anything else you want to talk about now? I really do need to
      get to the Ravenclaw Table, or they'll wonder where I am and my
      food will get cold."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, no," said Ginny. "Goodbye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye," said Hermione, and she left. Ginny considered the
      fact that Hermione was not much like she had imagined her to be,
      but she did not reflect on it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The True Patronus is powered not by a memory but by a
      plan.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It is the answer to the riddle of the Dementor.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It pertains to resurrection.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny repeated these three things in her head, over and over,
      for an entire day. She repeated them to herself as she slept, and
      she repeated them to herself as she stepped in a single file line
      consisting of most of her class and a few older students, through a
      fireplace, to the Ministry of Magic. Gilderoy Lockhart was waiting
      for her on the other side, and once his role call was complete, he
      guided his young students as a group through the main lobby, past a
      checkpoint, and to the Ministry's elevator, which had dozens of
      seats and moved forwards and backwards and left and right just as
      much as it moved up and down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"LEVEL NINE, DEPARTMENT OF MYSTERIES," read a calm, cool, and
      distinctly unsettling voice, when they had reached their final
      destination. The only conclusion Ginny had thus far gathered from
      her hints was that Dementors were a manifestation of an abstract
      concept, and that the True Patronus was somehow powered by your
      approach to solving the non-magical form of that abstract concept.
      It was known to happen that magical creatures would originate as
      manifestations of abstract concepts; phoenixes, for example, were
      representations of a promise of eternity. For this reason,
      depictions of them were common decorations in churches and on
      wedding invitations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Lockhart," said one Unspeakable, who appeared to
      distinctly distrust the Defense Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Croaker," said Professor Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're here for the Dementor exercise, correct?" said
      Unspeakable Croaker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," said Lockhart, and his smile just wouldn't stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have delivered the lecture on the properties of Dementors,
      and on how to produce a normal Patronus?" said Croaker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said Lockhart, and he nodded broadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Follow me," said Croaker, to the entire group from Hogwarts,
      and he led them into the Department of Mysteries proper, which
      Ginny's father had described to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a large circular room, with eleven featureless doors,
      twelve if you counted the one the class had just walked through,
      evenly spaced around the room's circumference. Each of the doors
      had an Unspeakable standing in front of it, wand drawn; they took
      shifts so that each door was guarded at all times. It simply
      wouldn't do if someone could sneak in after hours. There was a
      large circle drawn on the floor, just short of the edge of the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that Amortentia?" said a Gryffindor named Romilda Vane, and
      she pointed at a door that had a strong magical aura emanating from
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Professor Lockhart, quietly. "An entire fountain of
      it." Romilda stood in awe. Something about the magical signature
      didn't seem right to Ginny. She supposed she didn't know how the
      magical signature compounded in such a large quantity. But come to
      think of it, how had they gotten such a large quantity? Amortentia
      took serious sacrifice to create; how many wizards had lost their
      magic and their wands to power the Love Room? The Love Room
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> the one where they would keep Amortentia, right?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We cannot confirm or deny that at this time," said the
      Unspeakable in front of the Love Room, who was wearing completely
      opaque black glasses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone stand inside the red circle," said Unspeakable
      Croaker. "As close to the center of the room as possible." Ginny
      looked down, and saw that they were all well within it; Unspeakable
      Croaker closed the door to the outside world, and immediately, all
      of the Unspeakables in the room disappeared, along with the doors
      they were guarding. A few seconds later, they reappeared, but they
      were all scrambled; their positions and their order were completely
      different.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dementors this way," said one Unspeakable, who sent up sparks
      to attract the students' attention, and the door behind him opened
      a crack. The crowd made its way over to the Unspeakable, whose head
      was obscured by a cloud of smoke that didn't seem to leave his
      head, and stepped through the door into the Death Room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jeepers!" said Colin, pointing at the enormous triangular stone
      structure at the bottom of the chamber's chasm. "Is that the Veil?"
      A black surface rippled and fluttered between the two lines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, absolutely," said Professor Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We cannot confirm or deny that at this time," said the
      Unspeakable, and he guided them away from the chasm towards a more
      nondescript corridor, which was very long and was also made of
      stone, though it was less arcane than the Veil chamber. It led to a
      smaller, even less arcane room that had wood trim and pleasant
      lighting. There was a heavy stone door that the Unspeakable glanced
      at expectantly. "Behind this door is a pit containing all known
      Dementor specimens remaining after the purge of Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you keep Nundus from forming?" interrupted Colin, who
      was roundly shushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are not nearly enough Dementors present for the formation
      of a Nundu," said the Unspeakable. "And even if there were, we are
      not planning to perform an execution here any time soon, or ever.
      As I was saying, a pair of Unspeakables will escort a Dementor to
      this room momentarily, and you will take turns to face it
      one-on-one. Everyone who isn't currently facing the Dementor will
      wait in the hall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Dementor's Kiss is required to initiate Nundu formation,"
      explained Professor Lockhart, to Colin, during a lull. Soon
      thereafter, the room was evacuated of all except Karissa, who was
      going first. Ginny could feel the Dementor's presence, even though
      she was not looking at it. It was a distinctly wrong feeling,
      exactly what she expected, but real. It told her intuitively to
      flee better than any Boggart could, but she knew she would face it
      and overcome it. What could it possibly represent? Soon Ginny heard
      Karissa shout something, and there was a glow opposite the
      Dementor's, and Karissa returned triumphant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some weren't so lucky. The group was about evenly split between
      those able and those unable to produce Patronuses, though it was
      invariably found that those who had tried and failed last year
      failed just as hard now. Among those who were carried out of the
      room unconscious was Colin; this was not a surprise for Ginny, who
      hadn't really thought him the type in the first place. And
      absolutely no one produced a Patronus with the brilliant glow or
      perfect form of Harry's (or Hermione's).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's your turn, Miss Weasley," said Professor Lockhart. "Good
      luck." Ginny stepped forward, having suppressed as many of her
      nerves as she could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well, it's obvious what you are,</em> thought Ginny, as the
      cloaked figure appeared before her. <em class="calibre8">You're Evil. Capital-E
      Evil. That's what you personify. You exist to cause negative
      utility, you're not supposed to exist, and you even look more
      demonic than any other magical creature I've seen. It's not that
      hard to figure out. So, then, how do I solve you? Or, rather, how
      would Harry solve you? How would Harry solve evil?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No, no,</em> thought Ginny. <em class="calibre8">That's the wrong way to
      think about it altogether. You can't make a Patronus using
      Occlumency. The Defense Professor said so. How would</em> I
      <em class="calibre8">solve evil? What's</em> my <em class="calibre8">plan to deal with it? What does
      my worldview say?</em> The symptoms of Dementor exposure were
      already sinking in. It was becoming a little harder to think,
      though Ginny was pushing through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">God has already dealt with you,</em> thought Ginny. <em class="calibre8">Your
      game is up. Your price was paid in full on the cross, and any
      suffering you cause can therefore only be temporary. The idea that
      you are still an existential threat to anyone is an illusion, and I
      see through that illusion. (Is something wrong? This isn't how
      Harry would think about this. No, push on.) I know the
      truth.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I believe that the Lord God created the universe,</em>
      thought Ginny. <em class="calibre8">I believe that He sent His only son to die for
      my sins. I believe that the line of Christ contains all wizardkind!
      You have no place here!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum</em>!" shouted Ginny, as loudly as her
      lungs could currently provide. Her wand had been correctly raised,
      but nothing came out. She glanced diagonally downwards, otherwise
      frozen, expecting reality to correct itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em> thought Ginny. <em class="calibre8">No, try again. I believe that
      Satan has a hold on you! I believe that the Lord God has sent me
      here! I believe-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny finally fainted.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We didn't agree to this! We didn't agree to this! But I</em>
      did... <em class="calibre8">Oh God, I'm a murderer. Save me. Kill me. I need to be
      killed, I mustn't threaten anyone... They're dead... It's my
      fault... I trusted you. I'm going to wind up not remembering any of
      this, and I won't be able to protect anyone from myself then. Or
      you. The Chamber's going to keep opening, and opening, and opening,
      and we're going to keep killing, and killing, and killing... I did
      kill Cedric, after all, and now how many of his friends? You lied
      to me and I should have seen through it. But how, in Parseltongue -
      here he comes. Is Obliviation like dying?</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The baby looked up at its towering parents and the healer, and
      they had a strange conversation using strange words that it could
      not understand, but could remember, somewhere in the deep recesses
      of its infant brain, where only the memory magic of a conceptual
      being could recover it, and even then, only for the purposes of
      torture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can offer a mass Obliviation-" said the healer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want my son back," said Arthur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any kind of human Transfiguration is very dangerous," said the
      healer. "We're already very lucky that <em class="calibre8">she's</em> stabilized."
      Arthur made a reflexive stabbing motion that he'd picked up
      watching Muggle criminals who had to rely on Muggle weapons. "It
      would be risking the child's life all over again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it's not risking the child's life to leave him like this?"
      said Molly, through her tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said the healer. "Particularly given the function of
      eagle's splendor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does eagle's splendor have to do with this?" said Molly,
      exactly simultaneously with her husband's similar utterance: "Who
      said anything about a potion of eagle's splendor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Healers know things, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley," said the healer,
      "even if we are legally prevented from disclosing them. In most
      cases, at least; an exception might be made here seeing as a child
      was endangered. But the significance of eagle's splendor's function
      is that it causes the body's appearance to match the mind's
      ideal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough!" said Arthur. "If you can't reverse the effect, what
      can you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I was saying, I can offer a mass Obliviation applied to all
      friends and family, everyone who'd know, so that they're unaware
      that your <em class="calibre8">daughter</em> was ever any different," said the
      healer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My <em class="calibre8">daughter</em> is the third seventh son," said Molly, and
      she practically spit. There was a pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," said the healer. The baby looked up at its mother,
      who was the most upset it had ever seen her. Its mother looked
      back, but this did nothing to alleviate her distress; in fact, she
      had a look of disgust about her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What's wrong, Mother? Why don't you recognize me? Why don't
      you recognize me? Why don't-</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
