<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 26: Occam's Razor, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s26" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 26: Occam's Razor, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, we need to go out and find out what happened," said
      Ginny. "Find every clue we can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clues?" said Draco. "Ginny, this isn't a Necronomicon Grey
      story. We're not Ravenclaws using our vast command of trivia to
      solve a mystery that's actually just a half-baked riddle. We're
      children in a war zone who just heard that someone was murdered.
      Temporarily. Hopefully."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still better to find out what's going on," said Ginny, and she
      turned to leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're going, I'm going with you," said Draco. "You have to
      be safe." Ginny smiled at a job well done and fed her brain's
      "exploitation of chivalry" program a biscuit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where was Hermione petrified?" Ginny called out to a
      prefect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our secondary girls' bathroom, actually," said the prefect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny," whispered Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What," whispered Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's where they killed a girl forty years ago," said
      Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Ginny. She considered this. "Write down notes about
      everything we find out – actually, write notes about everything we
      already know, too. In case our progress is reset by Obliviation.
      Since that's clearly on the table."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Got it," said Draco, and he'd already summoned a cloud of
      floating parchment scraps more typical of a Ravenclaw in finals
      week than a paranoid Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder if anything Tim told me in Parseltongue actually
      matters," said Ginny. "If Obliviation is on the table, the False
      Memory Charm probably is too. Maybe he never actually said any of
      the things that I'm counting on memories of him saying. He just
      made me think that he said them after the fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to go cross-eyed like that," said Draco,
      scrambling to move his quill from scrap to scrap, writing
      sentence-fragment notes he thought he'd understand without further
      context. "Wait, I'm not allowed in - ?" They'd reached the enormous
      entrance to the girls' lavatory, which had already flooded with
      staff and students alike – strange, seeing as few normally used it
      except in those outlier times when the the regular restroom was
      overloaded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neah, they removed the wards on the girls' bathrooms years
      ago," said Ginny. "You aren't going to get pregnant by going in
      there. Anymore. Come on." She physically pulled Draco past the
      threshold, and then they saw Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In her Petrification, she was made equal to any other human. Her
      phoenix, it would later be determined, had entered the stratosphere
      and gone dormant besides Dumbledore's. She showed no signs of
      supernatural powers; she radiated no aura of purity. She was not
      Hermione. She was a structure of inert stone that looked something
      like Hermione. She had clearly been knocked over
      post-petrification; she was lying in an uncomfortable position
      beneath a stained-glass window. Standing above her was the
      Headmistress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Out, out!" cried the Headmistress. "Unless you have something
      to discuss with <em class="calibre8">me</em>, out! We are investigating a serious
      crime; this is not a show for public entertainment! I am holding
      Miss Granger's safety goggles in my hands; they functioned
      correctly and I assure all of you that she will make a full
      recovery simultaneously with Colin Creevey and Marietta Edgecombe!"
      Draco and Ginny glanced at each other, certain that they wanted to
      stay, but uncertain whether they wanted to describe their reasons
      why to the Headmistress. Pansy waved at Draco and Ginny, for some
      reason. At that point, Harry appeared, his hands reddened and the
      tips of his sleeves singed off by some magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione!" said Harry, with a distress that echoed that he'd
      felt when he'd truly thought her dead, though this was of course a
      lesser distress. "Headmistress McGonagall, please let me see the
      goggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Mr. Potter," said the Headmistress, and Harry walked
      quickly to her, took the goggles from her outstretched arms, and
      carefully examined them. They were correctly shaded Patronus-white,
      and he was satisfied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Petrification is even more of a nasty business than I thought,"
      said Harry. "The Diary is nonresponsive." Ginny elbowed Draco to
      make him write something down, and then spoke up loudly and perhaps
      unwisely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Diary?" asked Ginny. Several people, mostly people who were
      supposed to already be out of the room, stared at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you-" started the Headmistress, but Harry cut her
      off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a unique magical artifact," said Harry. "Very secret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no chance that it's been in my possession, is there?"
      said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Harry. "I'm the only one who's ever possessed it;
      your diary is just some sickle-store enchanted amusement, Ginny -
      please leave; we're investigating this and we'd prefer to be free
      of distractions." Ginny and Draco started to set off, but then -
      "Hey! Draco! Stick around, would you? It could be useful to have an
      outside perspective."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm here on Miss Weasley's behalf," said Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Harry. He considered this. "You can both stay. For a
      while. Headmistress, it goes without saying that you've attempted
      to use a time-turner already?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said the Headmistress, "and it was successful, but she'd
      already been petrified six hours ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn," said Harry. "Does no one ever <em class="calibre8">use</em> this
      restroom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's unlucky," said Pansy, who had lingered. "A girl died here
      and the Dark Lord was born."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pansy, get out of here," said Harry; as she left Harry
      stretched his face with his hands out of frustration.
      "Superstitious people can be so draining, Headmistress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are more draining people out there, Mr. Potter," said the
      Headmistress. Harry looked rather offended by the comment but said
      nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmistress, look!" said Harry. "Hermione was carrying a
      note." Harry carefully excavated a slip of paper from Hermione's
      rock-hard grip, and speedily read it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did she leave us some hint as to the identity of the
      perpetrator?" said the Headmistress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," said Harry. "If she knew, she surely would have
      come to us immediately. I mean, there's a chance, but - I think
      this note tells us how she was lured here, though. It's in her
      handwriting, but I don't think she wrote it; I think she was
      supposed to think she wrote it. Spimster wickets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," said the Headmistress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It told her to come to this bathroom, look at a particular
      window, and turn time back three hours to see a hint that would
      lead her to discover the Chamber," said Harry. "I'd assume the
      Monster was staring right where she was going to be. Then they must
      have moved the body and made it invisible so she wouldn't bump into
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That does fit with the evidence, yes," said the
      Headmistress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The worst part is that I developed a system, and taught it to
      her, specifically to protect against this," said Harry. "How it was
      subverted, I don't know. There's a clear password in the message,
      but the message was clearly designed to get her to the exact spot
      and time to be petrified."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would public knowledge of the system make it insecure?" said
      the Headmistress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't see how," said Harry. "It involves coming up with a
      password every morning, and then not telling anyone else that
      password, ever. She's a perfect Occlumens, too; you know that." The
      Headmistress was dumbfounded by this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Confundus</em>," said the Headmistress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Harry. "Oh-!" He immediately seemed nauseated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is all so complicated!" shouted Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny, you are welcome to leave if this is troubling you," said
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Ginny. "I don't mean too complicated for me to
      understand. I mean, too complicated for our collective
      understanding to be correct. This is a plot with too many moving
      parts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tragedy of Light," muttered Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It might appear that way to us," said Harry. "But there's
      clearly someone playing on a deeper level than us. They've managed
      to avoid capture thus far, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're clearly not dealing with someone rational," said Ginny.
      "In fact, I'd go so far as to say that we're dealing with someone
      tetched in the head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One to talk," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter," said Draco, sharply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If your plot requires more than three things to go right,
      you're absolutely nuts," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if it requires three things, you're at least a bit nuts,"
      added Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no idea who benefits from any of this," said Ginny.
      "Seeing as the declared motive, breaking the Interdict, is
      impossible, and this plot doesn't do anything Interdict-related,
      there's no motive! Nuts!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore would often orchestrate elaborate plots that didn't
      seem to have any rhyme or reason tot hem," said Harry. "But the
      truth was that he knew exactly what he was doing, better than any
      of us, because he had access to much more information. We shouldn't
      assume insanity in our enemy, especially when they keep winning.
      Don't complain about the unworthiness-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People still thought Dumbledore was insane," complained Ginny,
      "and he showed quite a few signs of it. It was the rational view to
      hold at the time. We should be looking for someone insane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I disagree," said Harry, and then someone loudly
      interjected:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Pansy Parkinson!" said Pansy, who had just strolled back
      into the room with a wide smile. All eyes went to her, and there
      was an extended pause of realization.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Polyfluis Reverso!"</em> shouted three adults at once, and
      Pansy turned out to be none other Luna Lovegood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How surprising," said Professor Lockhart, with thick
      sarcasm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em> thought Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum!</em>" said the Headmistress. "Find Pansy
      Parkinson and ask where she is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um – ignore everything I just said," said Harry, to Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pansy Parksinson says, 'mmph mmph mmph mmph'!", said Minerva's
      Patronus. Aurors had already appeared to take Luna away for
      questioning; she turned straight at Ginny, mad with laughter:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're next, love," said Luna. "I'll get you from a thousand
      miles away! You're next!"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
