<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 30: Standing on the Shoulders of Giants, I, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s30" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 30: Standing on the Shoulders of Giants, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wait a minute,</em> thought Ginny. <em class="calibre8">What?</em> She hadn't
      expected Draco to be the final victim at all; if anything, he was
      the only person she'd ruled out. The attacks had all been arranged
      by Voldemort; these last three weeks in advance. And Voldemort's
      plan, according to the Basilisk, who had read his mind, was to
      permanently occupy Draco's body, and to kill Harry and frame him
      for the attacks. How would Draco being petrified square with
      that?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could another Parselmouth have ordered an attack? Ginny
      seriously doubted that Ron had done such a thing; he hated Draco,
      but he hated speaking in Parseltongue, too, and surely wouldn't
      have found or used the Chamber. Harry was another possibility, but
      he was such a supreme rationalist that it was doubtful he'd be
      violent in that way, and on top of that, Ginny couldn't think of a
      motive. A further possibility, which simply hadn't occurred to her
      at first, was that Voldemort had deliberately targeted the body he
      thought he would be in, so that he could foil the attack and add to
      his false heroic narrative. Without Voldemort in Draco's body
      planning a defense, the attack wouldn't be foiled, and would
      instead proceed as the Basilisk planned it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Narcissa Malfoy innut gon'ter be happy about this," said Rubeus
      Hagrid, Hogwarts' half-giant groundskeeper, who was carrying Draco
      out of the school, through the front door, towards a safe storage
      facility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Hagrid, the potions are nearly ready," said Professor
      Slughorn, who was trailing behind him. "Draco will be as good as
      new within a fortnight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There're whispers about the school might close," said Hagrid.
      "Most've the kids are already either transferred out or on a leave
      o' absence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When the summer's finally arrived, the Chamber will be located
      and dismantled," said Slughorn. "According to the Headmistress, Mr.
      Potter says he's finally found a lead-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door closed behind them, and Ginny, no longer able to
      eavesdrop, turned and walked away. Soon, another conversation
      walked into her vicinity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's big news," said Tracey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Lavender. "No, no, no no no." She was very nervous,
      and Ginny decided this conversation must be important. "You mean
      he's in the school right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Either that or he figured out how to Apparate in an area with
      anti-Apparition wards," said Tracey. "Oh! Ginny!" <em class="calibre8">Aw, there's
      no point in eavesdropping if they notice you and tell you exactly
      what they're talking about anyway.</em> "There you are! There's a
      nasty update on the Defense Professor story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What now?" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They checked the wards' records," said Lavender, "and the
      Defense Professor never left the area that it's impossible to
      Apparate in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Theoretically he could have left without the wards detecting it
      by using a Portkey or the Floo Network," said Tracey, "but those
      are also recorded and checkable, and he didn't do that,
      either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," said Ginny. "More problems." She then ran off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny!" called Lavender. "Where are you going?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Looking for more conversations to eavesdrop on,
      idiot!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was interrupted, however, by the appearance of a solid
      white human; the famous Potter Patronus. It spoke to her in Harry's
      voice, which kept cracking, and sounded slightly crazed:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny! This is Harry Potter speaking! I need you to get here,
      A-S-A-P! I'm in an obscure washroom located behind the Owlery! When
      you get there, you'll see a note I left; follow the instructions at
      the bottom of it! Come alone and don't worry – you are in no
      danger, I repeat, you are in no danger! <em class="calibre8">Everything I have jusst
      ssaid iss true.</em> Harry Potter out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was already walking in the direction of the Owlery by the
      time the Patronus disappeared. On her way there, she sent Patronus
      messages to every remaining member of the More Sane Squad, telling
      them to have the washroom behind the Owlery investigated if
      anything unusual happened in the next few hours. She got a few
      responses – Tracey was very concerned, and was disturbed by the
      possibility that Ginny was walking into danger; Ginny wound up
      needing to reassure her that no such thing was happening. Ginny
      wasn't walking into danger, after all; Harry had said so and
      confirmed in Parseltongue. The possibility sort of hit Ginny that
      she might have been False Memory Charmed into a dangerous
      situation, especially considering Gilderoy Lockhart's continued
      presence in the school, and his modus operandi – would he be
      waiting in the Owlery washroom, waiting to jump her? But worrying
      about delusions that might have been magically placed on you was no
      way to live, even if it was a more likely situation than being a
      randomly briefly-formed brain in the midst of high-entropy space.
      Hesitating because of the possibility of False Memory Charms would
      be like giving into blackmail – it might be the best decision in
      this case, but it would make the world in general worse. Ginny
      readied her wand in case of a surprise regardless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Glug-glug, glug-glug, glug-glug, glug-glug...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Ginny got to the Owlery, she saw Harry, his robes stained
      with sweat, his limbs shaking, and his eyes bloodshot, standing on
      the opposite side of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Ginny!" said Harry, rather loudly from across the room.
      "It's this way!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, wait!" said Ginny, but Harry had already disappeared,
      through a small door that was practically hidden in the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Glug-glug, glug-glug, glug-glug, glug-glug...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny approached the door Harry had gone through, and as she
      did, she suddenly detected a strong magical field – Amortentia, it
      was definitely Amortentia. It was much, much stronger than a single
      cup of the stuff, but it was absolutely Amortentia. It made Ginny
      wonder what that room in the Department of Mysteries really
      contained – Lockhart had said it was a fountain of Amortentia, but
      it didn't feel anything like what Ginny now felt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Glug-glug, glug-glug, glug-glug, glug-glug...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Ginny opened the door, what she saw was horrifying:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Owl feces and owl pellets entirely coating the floor and each
      wall. (Of course, that was probably always there.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Four sinks, each on the floor, each decorated with the signature
      animal of a different founder, the fourth, the Slytherin sink,
      opened up into a chute that extended down further than Ginny could
      see – obviously leading to the Chamber of Secrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Leaning over that fourth sink, a smiling statue of Harry – it
      was Harry, he must have been Petrified recently. It, too, was
      covered in owl feces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In Harry's petrified arms, a cauldron – a Tennant's Bottomless
      Cauldron, in fact – from which was pouring, with each second, a
      steady flow of Amortentia, straight down the chute to the Chamber
      of Secrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On Harry's back, a note (attached with Spellotape) in his
      (shaky) handwriting:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OPERATION DOMESTICATION:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">petrification == Legilimency 2.0. Confirmed with Acromantula
      study</p>
      <p class="calibre6">basilisk survived attack from tom riddle. how?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">MULTIPLE BASILISKS == SLYTHERIN'S MONSTER</p>
      <p class="calibre6">PARSELTONGUE COMPUTERS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amortentia+deliberate self-Petrification ==
      <span><strong class="calibre9">C.</strong></span>oherent
      <span><strong class="calibre9">E.</strong></span>xtrapolated
      <span><strong class="calibre9">V.</strong></span>olition == real Yalizer</p>
      <p class="calibre6">can't do it alone. am locked out for reasons. Ginny</p>
      <p class="calibre6">cast Bubble-Head Charm on self to protect self from
      Amortentia</p>
      <p class="calibre6">use Feather-Falling Potion on table to descend directly to
      Chamber entrance</p>
      <p class="calibre6">open Chamber and speak with Monster</p>
      <p class="calibre6">decide on best course of action with it"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny gulped. Perhaps the rumor that everyone got an
      end-of-the-year adventure at Hogwarts were true. It was certainly
      turning out to be true for her. She stashed Harry's note in her
      pocket (she didn't understand every word, but she did at least
      understand the general gist of her directions), created a
      protective bubble around her head, swallowed the Feather-Falling
      Potion that Harry had left, and threw herself down into the unknown
      depths below...</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
