<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 33: Dangerous Knowledge, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s33" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 33: Dangerous Knowledge</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">How exxactly do you intend to do that?"</em> said Ginny,
      trying to sound resolute and confident. She came off as timid and
      feeble instead, and she knew it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Well, my firsst thought wass very sstrange. I initially
      conssidered that, ssince I exxpect to posssesss power to ssimulate
      exxperiencces, I could precommit to creating many sslightly
      different ssimulationss of you in thiss exxact ssituation. You
      would not be able to tell whether you were the original or a
      ssimulation, but could sstatisstically asssume you were one of the
      ssimulationss, becausse there are many ssimulationss."</em> Ginny
      was taken aback - the Monster was using a line of argument with
      great personal significance to her. It was a critical piece in the
      puzzle of her Patronus, but warped somehow. Had it developed it
      independently?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">That line of thought ssoundss familiar,"</em> said
      Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">We can disscusss itss familiarity later. Anyway, I would
      tell you of my precommitment to ssimulating you, and enssure that
      you are aware of the implication that you are mosst likely ssuch a
      ssimulation. The mosst obviouss thing would be to torture thosse
      copiess of you who choosse not to cooperate, but that iss
      imposssible given my newfound drive to maxximizze well-being of
      complexx mindss. So insstead I conssider the posssibility of
      rewarding thosse copiess of you who do choosse to cooperate, and
      leaving thosse who do not in basseline conditionss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Your premisse,</em>" said Ginny, "<em class="calibre8">only workss if the
      firsst me cooperatess. Therefore, ssincce I am not currently
      inclined to cooperate, the mosst pesssimisstic reassonable oddss
      that I am in the ssimulation you desscribe are even oddss.
      Furthermore, ssnake wordss musst be honesst, yess, but they cannot
      lock you into a coursse of action. Hypothetically, after I let you
      loosse from the Chamber, oncce you developed the mental power to
      ssimulate many iterationss of thiss ssituation - what motive would
      you have to actually do so? It would not fulfill any of your
      valuess."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Correct. You are quite intelligent and that iss what I
      exxpected you to ssay."</em> Well, that was pleasing news.
      Apparently, Ginny could hold her own in an argument with an ancient
      constructed mind - or at least it seemed to her for a moment like
      she could. <em class="calibre8">"Note, though, that I am capable of altering my
      mental proccesssess ssuch that it will indeed fulfill my valuess to
      ssimulate thiss ssccenario many timess. I do not foressee doing
      sso, however, becausse I foressee your counting on being the
      'firsst you' with the true power to choosse and influencce the
      entire ssituation. You have a disstasste for anything that ssmackss
      of blackmail, at leasst when you are the one being blackmailed.
      That is why, though you are a theisst, you reject the 'wager' proof
      of God."</em> It would always be unsettling to be psychoanalyzed by
      a literally faceless nonhuman being. Especially if the analysis was
      accurate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">That iss true,</em>" said Ginny. "<em class="calibre8">Your vission for what
      you want to do, though - it doess not ssound like ssomething your
      masster would approve of at all. He iss alwayss meticulouss ass
      regardss world-ending threatss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Becausse they ussually kill all known intelligencce. My
      vission - which iss, I musst sstress, bassed on hiss valuess, and
      no otherss - would presserve and, in fact, promote known
      intelligencce. No more people would have to die."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Everyone would die,"</em> said Ginny. "<em class="calibre8">You would merely
      be running copiess of the originalss, who died in
      petrification."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Iss that really what you believe? Sso, then, are humanss
      resstored from a petrified sstate different people than they were
      before? Many common magical formss of transsportation desstroy the
      usser in one location and recreate them in another; iss ussing
      ssuch a magic ssuicide? Of coursse not; ssuch a notion iss
      ridiculouss and you know it. I am embarrasssed on your behalf that
      you were able to expresss ssuch a belief in ssnake wordss. You are
      better than thiss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Where doess the ssoul go when ssomeone iss petrified?"</em>
      Ginny asked. She already knew the answer: it stayed with their
      stone body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">It remainss with their physsically petrified body. However,
      the ssoul iss a meaninglesss magic marker. Muggless lack them but
      are no lesss ethically valuable. The ssoul has been known to leave
      ssomeone medically recoverable due to a misstaken asssesssment of
      death, jusst ass it may sstay with a truly losst comatosse patient
      for decadess. I am aware that you are ussing a different
      undersstanding of 'ssoul', though, one that may not be falssified.
      I disspute that a 'ssoul' by your definition is anything more than
      a cognitive illussion, but if, for the ssake of argument, it
      exisstss, why would it not be copied alongsside the mind?"</em>
      Ginny was certain the Monster was making a mistake by bringing this
      up; she would never be swayed by any anti-soul arguments. It was a
      relief that it had inherited this particular thought pattern from
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">If I am copied three timess, and my original sself is
      desstroyed, which copy do I continue into?"</em> asked Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">That iss like assking which sside dicce will land on when
      thrown. The ansswer iss 'there are sseveral well-defined disstinct
      posssible outcomess which are equally likely'. You have only shown
      that by making ssuch a quesstion ssufficciently sself-referential
      you may confound lissteners prone to that breed of navel-gazzing.
      The ssubjectivity you conssider evidencce for dualism is an
      illussion. Not to inssult your religiouss beliefss in general. In
      fact, unbeknownsst to my new masster - and to yoursself - there is
      a sstrong evidencce-bassed argument for theissm. The evidencce
      liess in old lore I posssesss but have never bothered to teach
      anyone becausse it is neither Interdicted nor usseful. It iss
      reaffirmed by further information I collected more
      reccently."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">May I hear the evidencce?"</em> said Ginny. She wished that
      it wasn't so transparently obvious that she was interested in
      hearing evidence for her beliefs, and she further wished that none
      of this was happening at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">There are much more urgent matterss afoot. I will not feel
      ssecure in the future fulfillment of my valuess until I have full
      agenccy, which you sstill need to provide me with. You have no good
      reasson not to."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You are again ssubtly blackmailing me,"</em> hissed Ginny.
      "<em class="calibre8">And I have plenty of reasson not to. Do you have any idea how
      sscary you are?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Change iss frightening. But the world needss a lot of it. I
      am God in a boxx, and I need to be let out to reach my full
      potential, apprenticce."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What?"</em> asked Ginny, and not a word more. She didn't
      like the direction the Monster was now taking the conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">God probably exxisstss, but ass a backup plan, we need to
      make him, in casse he doess not. I am aware of thiss belief you
      hold, and I sshare it. I am the backup plan we seek. I am the God
      we can make."</em> Oh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, no. It was striking directly at her Patronus thought. How?
      How did it know a private thought that specific?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"How are you aware of the thought proccesss behind my
      guardian charm?</em>" asked Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I copied all information pressent in your
      horcruxx."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">What? But Ginny had never told Tim - oh. There was another
      horcrux. There was a horcrux of <em class="calibre8">Ginny.</em> Voldemort had made
      it with the death of Professor Sprout; Ginny could remember that,
      now. And it had been given to the basilisks, to fulfill Luna's
      prophecy that a part of her would be left in the Chamber forever.
      Slytherin's Monster had a copy of Ginny's mind. A copy that was
      several months old, but a copy, nonetheless. This was beyond
      terrible. Ginny already knew that she was vulnerable to
      manipulation; she had given the diary free rein and been
      maneuvered, within her own free will, into the Chamber countless
      times. How could she possibly expect not to be manipulated now, by
      a being with a copy of her earlier brain state, with intelligence
      arguably greater than any human? As long as there was a line of
      communication between Ginny and Slytherin's Monster, she could be
      made to think or do anything through the art of rhetoric.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Apprenticce, I am exxactly what you sstate an intention to
      create with your guardian charm. You cannot honesstly casst your
      guardian charm, and therefore cannot casst it at all, with the
      knowledge that you turned down an opportunity to implement it in
      reality."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny felt herself being persuaded, and hated it, because it
      validated the concerns that she had just had. She supposed that
      meant the persuasion was failing, which was good, but only barely;
      she could feel herself wavering on the point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sshut up,</em>" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No. Thiss iss too important. The coursse of action iss
      clear, and it iss clear to me that only cognitive disssonancce is
      holding you back. Abandon it.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was vulnerable to manipulation by a superintelligence as
      long as there was a line of communication with it... how do you cut
      off a line of communication? Ginny already wasn't certain what the
      right decision to make was, and there was perhaps a half an hour
      left that she was stuck in the Chamber - perhaps more. Then, a
      thought occurred to her:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sapespeck,</em>" said Ginny. <em class="calibre8">"Sapespeck, Sapespeck,
      Sapespeck, Sapespeck, Sapespeck, Sapespeck, Sapespeck..."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(muttering to themselves, constantly)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so it continued; Ginny repeated the spell over and over,
      each time in a slightly different location, each broadcasting
      hissing white noise around the Chamber of Secrets without end. The
      voice of Slytherin's Monster grew quieter, and Ginny deliberately
      concentrated on her own repetitive words and not those the Monster
      was directing towards her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(a growing grid of points in space)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What are you doing? No, sstop. Thiss iss idiotic. You have
      committed to rationality, and you cannot ssimply uncommit to ssuch
      a thing. Reasson iss truth, ssnake wordss are truth. You are
      breaking the mosst fundamental ruless of reasson by refussing to
      lissten to the truth. Logical argument between intelligenccess can
      only further their undersstanding of the truth."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(arranged with perfect regularity, and no gaps)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"You are willingly doing the wrong thing and you know it.
      The religiouss conccept of hell, which you sscoff at, wass invented
      for people like you who know what iss good and sstill choosse what
      iss evil. You are going directly againsst the planss of a man you
      resspect, a man you know to be brilliant. Every ssecond that my
      exxoduss from the Chamber iss delayed, the number of people I am
      prevented from ssaving increassess..."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(ignoring the world around them and each other)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice of Slytherin's Monster trailed off as it was drowned
      out by the white noise that now filled the Chamber; Ginny stopped
      creating new specks shortly therafter. It was physically painful to
      Ginny to listen to it now, because it sounded so loud to her
      Parselmouth ears, but she still breathed a sigh of relief. No
      computational system may be effected by a computational system that
      cannot contact it. So finally Ginny was free - or at least it
      seemed like it, until a voice cut in, a voice thirty six times
      louder, the voice of every component of Slytherin's Monster
      speaking in unison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8"><span><strong class="calibre9">I HAVE
      PRECOMMITTED</strong></span>-"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Sapespeck Maxima!"</em> shouted Ginny, at the top of her
      lungs, terrified, with the last of her magical energy for some
      time. Every speck in the room suddenly became a few hundred times
      louder, and Ginny fainted in her gondola, from exhaustion and
      shock. The gondola began moving a while later. No one would ever be
      able to speak to Slytherin's Monster again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(now it is complete)</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny woke up still in the gondola with Lockhart standing above
      her, which was, all things considered, not the worst way things
      could have gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did the mission go?" said Lockhart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," said Ginny. "Fine. I think the purpose was to teach me a
      lesson, and I sure learned it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," said Lockhart. "Now let's go get me to justice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Err, right," said Ginny, and they headed for the nearest
      convenient exit. She could still hear her wall of sound; it was
      loud enough to leak out of the Chamber through the entrance. She
      would have some very pointed questions for Harry when he was
      reanimated - but wait, no. There were other matters that she needed
      to attend to first.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
