<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 35: Omake &amp; Epilogue, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s35" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 35: Omake &amp; Epilogue</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">INDUCTION</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl named Ariadne stepped out of the helicopter and looked
      around; her benefactor had taken her to some hut in the midst of a
      tropical rainforest. A brightly-colored parrot sitting on the straw
      roof cawed at her. The mysterious man muttered something at the
      bird, frustrated, as he climbed out of the helicopter himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come right this way," he said, and he led her into the hut. The
      interior was much nicer than the exterior, and it seemed a bit
      larger, too, though of course it couldn't be. "The thing we're here
      to see is the basement. It might shock you, but there's no reason
      to be alarmed. Try to stay calm." At this point Ariadne realized
      that she had no idea why she was here, a distressing fact. She was
      hundreds of miles away from civilization proper. If this was a
      trap, it was far too late and she had already been caught in it. So
      she approached the stairs, and braced herself for things to go
      bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," said Ariadne. "What are we here to see, exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the time it would take me to explain it -" started the man -
      "you'll just see." Ariadne descended the staircase, and there she
      saw it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A colossal subterranean room, like a basketball court, filled
      with something like a hundred unconscious human beings, of all
      types – men, women, children, thin, fat, all races – connected to
      each other by a web of tubes and wires, tubes and wires that
      encircle and define the entire room, womblike, and lead up to an
      enormous machine hanging from the ceiling. Ariadne stared at it,
      and gasped a few times, each time quieter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have some guesses about what's going on here, but I have a
      feeling you actually know," said Ariadne. "So please explain
      <em class="calibre8">this</em> to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">This</em> is the greatest thing I have ever created," said
      the mysterious man. "Or at least the result of it. Not that I did
      it alone. Calling it a team effort is an understatement. My
      father-in-law had the critical insight that allowed the field to
      exist in the first place. I noticed the unexpected benefits of
      recursion within that field. Chemist named Yusuf invented the setup
      you're looking at right now. And my wife – she saw the real
      potential in all of it." He made an effort to smile. "I'm sorry,
      I'm not really explaining this clearly, am I?"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "No," said Ariadne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll start from the beginning," he said. "My father-in-law,
      Professor Stephen Miles – he worked at your university back then –
      he discovered that, by wiring the right parts of two people's
      brains together, their REM phases can synchronize and they can
      share dreams. More than that, he discovered that it's easy – he
      could get it all to work perfectly without any surgery, just with
      wires that stick to the forehead with suction cups."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All the people down here are sharing a dream," said
      Ariadne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said the man behind it all. "Did you know that you think
      twenty times faster when you're dreaming? It's counterbalanced by
      your inability to know you're dreaming, but that limitation can be
      trivially broken; it's called lucid dreaming and it's vital to
      making good use of the technology. What I've described already
      would have been revolutionary by itself. But then I got a
      nonsensical but consistent experimental result that changed
      everything again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that would be...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First, some background. Shared dreams are much more coherent,
      much more... <em class="calibre8">causal</em> than natural dreams; multiple brains
      separately monitoring the dream for oddities forces that. So you
      can perform very complex actions successfully in them. In a shared
      dream, you can set up a shared dream. And what I discovered is that
      the speed of thought consistently multiplies within dreams. You
      think twenty times faster in a dream than you do in reality, four
      hundred times faster in a second-order dream, and eight thousand
      times faster in a third-order dream. At first it wasn't stable past
      that; people would become vulnerable to an extreme form of
      Alzheimer's and it just wasn't worth it. But there was nothing like
      that for the first three layers; they were perfectly safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's insane," said Ariadne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it's true," said the man with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she said. "I mean, it'd change everything. If the world's
      greatest minds were sped up eight thousand times, it'd – it'd be
      like – like -" She didn't like it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those are the same lines my wife thought along," said the man,
      who was smiling, apparently having missed that she wasn't. "At
      first we used it to improve the technology itself – we increased
      the number of stable layers repeatedly, and each time it improved
      our efficiency by a factor of twenty. We can treat the degenerative
      neurological effects of descending too many layers, now, and there
      are other things you couldn't comprehend without full classes on
      them, but they're just as important. Then we set to work on other
      problems."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That should be a technological singularity," said Ariadne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is," said the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would've expected a self-improving AI, programmed on a
      computer. Not moonbat dream logic. But if it works, it works," said
      Ariadne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are computers involved now," said the man. "They
      stabilize dream levels past the ones that were initially possible,
      and keep projections of the subconscious at bay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not the same thing as self-improving AI," said Ariadne.
      "Although it is self-improving."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd like you to join this dream singularity," said the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Ariadne.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have shown great intellectual potential," said the man.
      "And you would be multiplying your effective lifespan by many
      orders of magnitude."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By abandoning reality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Reality," said the man, "is not socially constructed, but most
      things we call reality, when we purport to value reality, are."
      Ariadne frowned, a bit disgusted to have heard the words 'socially
      constructed' from a scientist. Still, she had to admit – what she
      had said was not her true objection. There was a deeper discomfort
      at play, one she had to make concrete and put into words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I could live for thousands of years of subjective time-" she
      started, very slowly and carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too few zeros," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I could live for an absurdly long time subjectively," she
      corrected herself, speeding up in frustration, "in an
      artificially-enhanced dream state, why wouldn't I be there already?
      Why did you fly me out into the middle of nowhere to talk to me
      about it? Is someone after you – wait, no, I shouldn't make up
      post-hoc justifications. I'm in a dream right now, right?" She was
      being fed lies, as though by IV tube. The walls began to shake, but
      immediately stabilized. The man put his hands on his cheeks and
      smiled with faux embarrassment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you figured it out," he said. "I knew you were smart."
      She tried to wake up. Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me out," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It isn't so bad, is it?" he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would happen if I tried to kill you?" she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'd hurt," he said. "If you succeeded, I'd be kicked out of
      the dream. I don't think you have any reason to do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do I work the same way?" she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not thinking of suicide, are you?" he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm thinking of acting out a suicide to return to the real
      world," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't do that," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You need to learn how to stop regressing," he said. She stared
      at him and blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Regressing?" she said. "Returning to objective reality where
      I'm not lied to is 'regressing'? This is the last time I'm going to
      ask you. Let me out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man tried to come up with something to say, and Ariadne drew
      a pencil from her left pocket and stabbed it directly through her
      eye and into her brain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ariadne woke up in a hospital bed, in a standard off-white
      disposable gown, restrained so she was unable to move her limbs –
      that would make things more difficult. The man she had spoken to
      pried a tube off of his head and left, along with another man, who
      she didn't recognize. Assholes. Ariadne spoke loudly, to get the
      attention of the nurse present.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey! Hey! How many layers down am I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The nurse stared blankly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ariadne was pretty sure that it wasn't a real person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outside the ward, the man in the dream – Mr. Cobb – spoke with
      what appeared to be a floating woman in a black dress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Another shot, another miss," said Mr. Cobb. Not that it
      mattered – with as many dream layers as there were these days,
      inception became more of a brute force game than the art it had
      once been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shoot again," said the woman. Her accent was strong but not
      quite French; it conveyed a powerful and truly alien quality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's been such a hard case," said Mr. Cobb. "I thought she
      would crack in the thirty sixth layer. Maybe she really does want
      to leave, deep down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one really wants that, Dom," said the woman. "Not if they
      have all the facts. It's better in here. You have to show her that;
      you have to save her, because I love her like I love you, like I
      love all of humanity. Do you understand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said Mr. Cobb. "I've understood since nearly the
      beginning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't suffer in your work, Dom," said the woman. "Even when
      you're not perceiving me, when you think you're alone, I'm there
      with you. I'm everywhere you live. My code is your reality." She
      lifted Mr. Cobb up, to speak directly into his face. "Now make it
      her reality, too."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">SURVEILLANCE PARK</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But how is the DNA actually preserved?" said Tim. He looked
      confused, and Dr. Grant didn't want to reveal that he felt the same
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's amber," said Gennaro. "You should have paid attention
      during the cartoon; they explained it. The mosquito bites the
      dinosaur and steals some of its DNA, and then it gets caught in
      amber, which preserves it for over sixty five million years."
      Gennaro had always prided himself on his test-taking ability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But..." started Tim. "DNA is just a molecule. It should undergo
      exponential decay for radio – radiologic reasons. The amber doesn't
      have anything to do with that. It would need to have a really big
      half-life to be read tens or hundreds of millions of years later –
      and we know that's not true because of how cancer works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dr. Malcolm tented his hands and grinned like he was watching
      the most fascinating game he'd ever seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got to admit," said Dr. Grant, "it occurred to me that DNA
      is a complex molecule that vanishes in an instant in geologic time,
      but I probably wouldn't have said anything if no one else had
      brought it up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've studied amber," said Dr. Satler, "and I've really got to
      say that the invocation of amber in the video raised a lot more
      questions than it answered. I'd assumed there was something I was
      missing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd just assumed you had a time machine before," said Lex, "and
      now I'm disappointed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that it, John?" said Dr. Malcolm. "Do you have a time
      machine? You're hiding something. What is it?" Mr. Hammond laughed
      and laughed. He unscrewed the amber prop from the top of his
      walking stick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course it was the child and not the experts who tore the
      whole charade apart," said Hammond. "Not that it would have lasted
      long, regardless. What a disaster. Well, that's all I needed to
      know. You were all here to test my cover story, and it turns out
      it's utterly transparent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cover story?" said Gennaro, offended. Sure, he'd only been
      Hammond's lawyer for a week, but he'd still assumed that they'd
      been in honest communication.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe the dinosaurs' genes are actually coded from scratch,"
      said Lex.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or they're modified birds," said Tim. "Dinosaurs evolved into
      birds, so they'd make a good base if you were trying to
      reverse-engineer a dinosaur into existence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no," said Hammond. "You were closer with the time machine."
      Gennaro's mouth was hanging open. "It all started with an
      experiment I happened to fund many years ago at the Proton
      Synchrotron particle accelerator at CERN. We discovered that, using
      a certain obscure method, quarks could be 'burned', so to speak,
      into pure energy. But that energy, it doesn't quite come out
      homogeneous – it comes out like data, like a radio signal. And we
      decided to try to decode it. Through some experimentation we
      discovered that it was a record of every atom and every molecule
      that the quark had been present in. And we learned how to read that
      record. The chemical notation is fascinating in its elegance; far
      better than what us humans came up with on our own. I'm trying to
      slowly, subtly phase it into common practice in the chemistry
      community." Lex had been trying to do a preliminary calculation in
      her head, but she gave up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many computers do you have for the data analysis?" asked
      Lex.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More than the rest of the planet," said Hammond. "And we pay
      our programmers higher than any other firm, too; I made sure of
      that. We spared no expense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you burn quarks from arbitrary sources, like ocean water,
      because it's unlikely that they went off-world recently," said Dr.
      Grant, "and you look through the data for DNA molecules, and try to
      find ones that might be dinosaurs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Precisely," said Hammond. "The non-DNA molecules can be
      filtered out of the search fairly rapidly, but it's still a long
      and difficult process sorting through uninteresting DNA molecules,
      like ancient rats and flies. But worth it in the end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me, Mr. Hammond," said Dr. Malcolm, "but with all due
      respect, are you out of your mind? You stumbled upon a
      revolutionary physical discovery and developed it to make it more
      useful. You acquired what amounts to a full chemical record of the
      history of matter. This finding, unprecedented in the history of
      epistemology, strongly suggests that no information is ever lost,
      and a future supercomputer could reconstruct any past object,
      including human brains at the instant of death – this could be a
      path to godhood. And instead you... keep it under wraps for God
      knows how many years so you could clone dinosaurs? To make a theme
      park, for children? And your first plan was to lie to them about
      how you did it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The government would want military applications," said Hammond.
      "'Spy on Russia by examining these artifacts we recovered.' Bah.
      I'm not beholden to cries of progress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Godhood, Mr. Hammond," said Dr. Malcolm. "We're talking about
      godhood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want to be God," protested Hammond. "I want to make
      dinosaurs." Dr. Malcolm ran his hands through his hair and tried to
      think of a response, but proceedings were interrupted by the
      arrival of Muldoon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir, you need to see this," said Muldoon, and he handed Hammond
      a photograph. "It's... important."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not-"started Hammond, but then he clapped a hand over
      his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dr. Grant was lucky enough to see the photograph. It showed the
      words "CAUTION TALK TO RAPTORS", scratched barely legibly in the
      dirt next to a high concrete wall. It seemed to be the interior of
      the raptor enclosure; the entire party had seen them digging
      earlier, prior to the feeding. Supposedly, Jurassic Park's raptors
      had displayed an ability to communicate with one another, via a
      sort of whistling noisemaker in their nasal cavity, and they had a
      distinct problem-solving intelligence that made keeping them
      captive a difficult task. Could a species intelligent enough to
      communicate on an equal level with humans have existed at some
      point in Earth's distant past? Surely that was an unknown unknown,
      something that wouldn't necessarily have shown up in the fossil
      record, much like the poison-spitting behavior the cloned
      dilophosaurs had displayed. Grant shot Muldoon a meaningful
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clever girls," muttered Muldoon.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A TALE OF CONSTRUCTS</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Andy Davis, age six, awoke a little after seven in the morning –
      earlier than he'd expected. His mother knocked on his door and
      turned on his lights. He was in an unfamiliar room; his family had
      just moved to this house yesterday.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Andy?" said his mother. "There's a friend who wants to see you.
      He says he has something of yours." Andy shrugged and cleaned
      himself up; when he got to the entry room, he nearly screamed when
      he saw who it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was his old neighbor, Sid, a pyromaniac with a pointless
      obsession with torturing toys. To make matters worse, he had Andy's
      two favorite toys in his hands, both of which he had recently lost
      – Sheriff Woody, a cowboy doll with sentimental value, and Buzz
      Lightyear, this year's hottest sci-fi action figure. Sid was nearly
      twice Andy's age – what was he doing here?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing here?" said Andy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I found your lost toys at Pizza Planet, and wanted to give them
      back," said Sid – distinctly rehearsed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How – did you – find us? W-we moved," said Andy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My mom called your mom and she told us your new address." Andy
      glanced at his mom, wondering how she possibly could have failed as
      a parent badly enough to lead this deranged fifth grader straight
      to them</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," said Andy, hopeful that Sid genuinely had no ill
      will. This was a side of Sid that Andy had never seen – but, then,
      Andy had never actually met Sid before, only observed him from a
      distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to talk, though," whispered Sid, so only Andy could
      hear it. Andy shivered, but Sid hadn't actually sounded threatening
      at all. More threatened, actually. He was deeply scared. He had
      clearly lost a lot of sleep over something; maybe he hadn't even
      slept at all last night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About what?" whispered Andy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alone," said Sid, and then he spoke up. "We're going to go play
      outside, Mrs. Davis." Andy sort of nodded to his mother to confirm
      that plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, okay!" said Andy's mother, and so Andy and Sid's
      conversation moved outside. Sid took Buzz with him. Immediately
      upon the door closing behind them, Sid blurted it out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Toys are alive," said Sid, panicked. "Toys are alive, toys are
      alive, toys are alive." Andy took a step back. Sid wasn't behaving
      in a hostile way, but he only seemed more unhinged than he ever
      had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Andy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't believe it at first," said Sid, "I thought it was a
      nightmare. But it's not. Toys are alive. All toys. They just stay
      still when people can see them, so no one suspects anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds kinda... para-noid," said Andy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought so!" said Sid. "I thought so too! But it's how
      reality works, so I have to accept it now. When I truly accepted
      it, I started to feel like I'd been a serial killer. But this isn't
      about me. This is so much bigger than that. It – something
      happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Andy, hoping to placate Sid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I found Woody and Buzz," said Sid, "and I didn't want to give
      them back to you at all. I was going to burn them up, like I do –
      like I did – with toys a lot. But they rallied all of my broken
      toys together, to 'break the rules' in unison, to show me that toys
      are alive and scare me straight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What – what did they do?" said Andy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They came to life in front of my eyes," said Sid. "And they all
      crawled towards me and told me to stop." Sid had actually memorized
      the speech Woody gave, but he'd decided it would be creepy to
      recite it in full. "And I kinda froze up and sat down, and I told
      them I wouldn't hurt them, and they all went limp again, but I
      begged them to tell me more. I felt like I was nuts, but eventually
      I convinced them to actually communicate with me. Say something,
      Buzz."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The past twenty four hours have been incredibly stressful for
      all of us," said Buzz Lightyear – sounding precisely like his VA on
      the show, Tim Taylor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can talk," said Andy, more quietly than he'd expected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, 'Andy', I can talk," said Buzz. Andy's pupils widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where'd Woody go?" said Andy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He stayed inside to relay some messages to the other toys,"
      said Sid. "Telling them they can move around us. We're going to
      break the masquerade, Andy. I know I'm a child – and you're, like,
      a baby – but we have to get this done, and done right, because it's
      going to happen eventually. We can't sit on this secret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are toys?" said Andy. "And how do they work?" Andy
      conversed with Sid, Buzz, and the others for a couple of hours,
      learning details about toys' daily lives, life cycles, and such,
      making sure that all the details were as explicit as possible.
      Eventually it came time to analyze paths forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how do we do the most good?" said Sid. Andy took a deep
      breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut down every dump in the world."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">FINALE A: POST OWL</p>
      <p class="calibre6">June '93: WE'RE BACK IN BUSINESS! THE QUIBBLER RETURNS UNDER NEW
      MANAGEMENT! NOW A LEGITIMATE JOURNALISM ENTERPRISE!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CRAZED SLYTHERIN HEIR HARRY "MIGHTY MORFIN" POTTER ATTEMPTS TO
      DESTROY WORLD IN SNAKEMAGEDDON! FIRST THING ON HIS MIND WHEN HE
      GETS OUT OF THE HOSPITAL? "BETTER GET IT RIGHT NEXT TIME!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">ARMLESS WOMAN FINDS LOVE WITH NOSELESS MAN! THIS STORY WILL WARM
      YOUR HEART!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">June '94: THE MANCHURIAN METAMORPHMAGUS! THE TRUE STORY OF HOW
      MORE THAN JUST ONE MARAUDER WAS DARK AS ALL GET OUT! COULD THEY
      HAVE BEEN A CULT DEVOTED TO THE CREATION OF A COLLECTIVE
      PHYLACTERY?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">LYCANTHROPY IS IN THIS FALL! GET YOURS TODAY AT THE PEVERELL
      FAMILY HOSPITAL! DON'T TAKE NO FOR AN ANSWER!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">SOMETHING WICKED THIS WAY COMES! "END OF ALL EXISTENCE" PROPHECY
      OVERHEARD BY QUIBBLER STAFF! BET ON PROPHECY PREVENTION RESEARCH
      TODAY! ANTHROPIC PRINCIPLE SAYS: "IT'S WORTH A SHOT!" 4 OUT OF 4
      FUTURE YOUS AGREE!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">June '95: TRIWIZARD TOURNAMENT ENDING IS LITERALLY MOST
      IMPORTANT THING GOING ON IN THE WORLD AT THIS MOMENT. PAY NO
      ATTENTION TO OTHER NEWS STORIES THE MEDIA MACHINE IS TRYING TO SELL
      YOU!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">NEW BABY PANDA AT MUGGLE ZOO IN HONG KONG! EXPERTS HAVE NO IDEA
      HOW IT GOT THERE!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">PUPPIES!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">June '96: POTTER GOES ABSOLUTELY NUTS WITH THE MOST CONVOLUTED
      TIME KNOT EVER! READ OUR EXCLUSIVE BREAKDOWN OF THE COMPLEX LOOPING
      MANEUVERS USED IN THE GREAT AND BLOODY POLYNOMIAL HEIST! FIND OUT
      WHO LIVED, WHO DIED! WE TELL THE STORY!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">EVIL PEDO GILDEROY LOCKHART BROKEN OUT OF NURMENGARD! WHO WOULD
      DO SUCH A THING? OUTRAGED PARENTS KEEP THEIR KIDS AT HOME! INSIDE
      SOURCES SAY LOCKHART HAS BEEN MAGICALLY DISABLED SO HE HAS NO
      STOMACH FOR EVIL – BUT WHAT ARE THEY HIDING AND WHY?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">INSPIRING! TEENAGE GIRL PUTS IN VOLUNTEER WORK IN THE WAR-TORN
      MAGICAL GREEK ISLES!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">June '97: IT'S HAPPENING! THE WILY DR. POTTER PLANS HIS MOST
      DEVIOUS SECRET PLAN YET! DETAILS INSIDE.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">THE MINISTRY IS EMPTY!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">FATE OF ALL MEGUCA HANGS IN BALANCE!</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">FINALE B: POST HASTE</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Violencia acabador!"</em> cried Luna, creating a colossal
      explosion behind them that wiped out scores of Inferi. Ginny
      slammed the door to the Department Of Mysteries shut, and as part
      of the Department's security procedures, they were both sent flying
      through conceptual space before finally landing in an alternate
      version of the rotunda with a scrambled layout. A bare compass
      needle jumped in Ginny's hand, and she followed it where it
      led.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's through this door," said Ginny. "The Slate Star Codex. An
      artifact that predates all known wizards, a relic of Atlantis that
      landed before any of the others. And I have to destroy it. If he
      figures out how to use it – and I figured out how to use it, so I'm
      sure he'll have no trouble – he'll make first contact with truly
      alien civilizations; undoubtedly ones vastly more powerful than
      wizardkind. What happens after that? There's no way to know. No way
      at all." Ginny stopped, sniffed the air, and frowned. "He's put up
      some kind of barrier that will make it very difficult for me to
      exit the room once I've entered. I have no doubt that he expects to
      fight me in there. Maybe force me to give up my method; boy, is he
      going to be disappointed to find out I had myself-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-Ginny Weasley, you listen to me right now," protested Luna.
      "Do you need a lizard man to shout 'IT'S A TRAP' in your face?
      Here, I'll conjure one. <em class="calibre8">Expecto patronum!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a trap!" said the white, ethereal lizard man, in Luna's
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't go in there," said Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna," said Ginny, "I'm not going to save myself at the expense
      of all of existence. That's just... pointless. Go back in time,
      Luna. Six turns. We both already know you do. And hey – if I
      totally screw this up and all existence ends, at least you've got
      six more hours alive. And that's not enough. But it's
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna pouted, but she finally accepted, wordlessly, that Ginny
      was right. They kissed, and it reminded them both of the private
      soul-bonding ceremony they had had earlier that year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come out," said Luna, to no one in particular, and she turned
      the hourglass hanging from her neck six times. Six hours earlier,
      she would give her time turner to her past self to use now. It had
      come from nothing and would return there; it was the most literal
      physical manifestation of a time loop. Stranger things have
      happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny entered the fateful door and found only pitch
      blackness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Lumos</em>," she whispered, hoping to find the Codex. What
      she illuminated instead was – well-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the left side of the room was a simple mirror with a golden
      frame. At its base, it was wrapped in a golden chain Ginny was very
      familiar with, a chain she had lost some time ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the right side of the room was a simple mirror with a golden
      frame. At its base, it was wrapped in a golden chain Ginny was very
      familiar with, a chain she had lost some time ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So that's what he's used the Thing of Things for," muttered
      Ginny to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Band of Ozymandias, yes," said Harry, whose voice caught
      Ginny off-guard. He appeared behind her, and now there were two
      parallel infinite lines visible in the mirrors, one line of Harry
      and one of Ginny. "I can hardly think of any magical artifact that
      benefits from doubling as much as the Mirror of Noitilov, which is
      thereby made recursive. Every second I spend in this room generates
      infinite utility. All I can pursue now are higher infinities. It
      really helps to put things in perspective for me. What were you
      doing with the Band? Speeding up construction?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So where's the Slate Star Codex, Harry?" said Ginny. She'd run
      out of patience long ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't actually want to call up unknown alien civilizations,"
      said Harry. "Do you think I'm stupid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ginny. Harry rolled his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm not," said Harry. "I just brought it along to lure
      you here on false pretenses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know I can break these wards in about five minutes, right?"
      said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Under normal conditions," said Harry. "But I know a little
      trick I learned from Albus Dumbledore. Have you ever heard of
      Chang's Process Of The Timeless?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know <em class="calibre8">Bisector Sortum?</em>" asked Ginny, horrified. She
      was only aware of that spell's existence because of the Chamber Of
      Secrets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," said Harry. "<em class="calibre8">Bisector Sortum.</em>" A gray beam
      fired out of his wand, into the left mirror. Harry Potter vanished,
      and Ginny vanished from the other side of the mirror – each of them
      was now only present in half of the mirror's infinite set of
      reflected worlds. Ginny knew at this point that she was probably
      not going to make it out of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you want so badly to be my archnemesis?" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you want so badly to be mine?" said Harry. "You're not.
      After today you'll be gone, and my story will still be in its
      prologue. The only person who can threaten me is myself. I'm the
      greatest wizard of all time and my only enemy is death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're such a great wizard, why do you spend so much of your
      time stealing things?" said Ginny. The Thing Of Things, the Slate
      Star Codex, the Time Cube... if an object was remotely worthwhile,
      you could be sure Harry intended to make like an RPG protagonist
      with it. "And who said anything about death?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, don't get me started," said Harry. "And I steal them
      because you lot are horrible at using them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Using them for what?" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doing the most good the most efficiently," said Harry. "That's
      all I want to do. That's all I stand for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," said Ginny, "and Draco Malfoy's just a magical realist.
      ...listen, I got Zabini to talk, and I know you run MagiLeaks; you
      organized the whole thing. If I disappear-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're an existential threat, Ginny," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a what?" said Ginny, and she actually let out a single
      uncomfortable laugh. She understood the words, but they were still
      quite a pronouncement to make, and she had no idea what Harry could
      be referring to. Harry rose his voice louder than Ginny had often
      heard it:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're smart enough to be dangerous and too stubborn to reason
      with," Harry projected through the mirror. "It should have become
      clear to me when you refused the promise of the basilisks, but I
      put it off. I tried to undermine you instead of going for the
      throat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're just going to trap me, probably forever?" said Ginny.
      "Basically just killing me? Why all the drama? You've killed so
      many people without flinching."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, have I?" said Harry. "Like Colin, today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ginny, and she held her tears in, but then Colin
      fell out of Harry's bag – quite alive, though he'd been temporarily
      and involuntarily transfigured into a fox. "...what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's all been a ruse," said Harry. "I've never killed anyone,
      and I've only ever pretended to if I felt I had to make a strong
      impression on someone, to show them I mean business. Apparently
      that wasn't enough for you, Ginny. So if you ever want to see the
      outside of this room, Ginny, then Colin will be overseeing a brief
      Unspeakable Vow. Yes, I can save us all from the Process Of The
      Timeless. I can redirect it towards this side of the mirror, and
      hide Colin and myself under the True Cloak of Invisiblity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, really?" said Ginny. "What's the Vow? Hang in there,
      Colin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I have to do, one way or another, is make you noncanon,"
      said Harry. Ginny snorted. "No, take this seriously. You will have
      no loyalty to God. You will not profess belief in the existence of
      God. If you learn of evidence that God exists, you will ignore it.
      If God seems to require your assistance, you will not provide
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," said Ginny, dripping sarcasm like a deep fat fryer. "No.
      Well, as long as you're killing me, I have some questions. Why do
      you consider me an existential threat?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not an idiot dark lord, Ginny," said Harry. "I'm not going
      to tell you all of my secrets just because I don't expect you to be
      able to do anything about them. I can at least learn from my own
      mistakes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione wouldn't like what you're doing," said Ginny, but it
      wasn't a plea – just a firm condemnation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione failed me," said Harry, "and if you think I care about
      her opinion now, you've modeled me poorly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder where you put her, if you didn't kill her," said
      Ginny, and she shot Harry a look. "Maybe I should have killed you
      at some point. Forgive me." Ginny kneeled down as angular white
      fish began swimming around her side of the mirror, filling the room
      with a buzzing noise and -</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">FINALE C: POST MORTEM</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room's atmosphere had returned to a calm, but Harry and
      Colin were nowhere to be found. On the opposite side of the mirror
      from Ginny, there was an older wizard, one she recognized from many
      photographs, portraits, and even illustrations – Albus
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," said Dumbledore. "This must be quite a shock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus Dumbledore," Ginny muttered in awe. "You were trapped in
      the mirror, too! Is that why I'm seeing you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of the reasons. I'm afraid 'Harry' succeeded in banishing
      you from his sight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there any way for me to go back, now?" said Ginny, but she
      was already getting the sinking feeling that if there was,
      Dumbledore wouldn't have been absent from the world for five
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Dumbledore. "There is no way back to the mortal coil,
      from outside of time. Not even a particularly tedious combination
      of the Philosopher's Stone and the Well of Time can restore us. We
      are deader than most can aspire to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," said Ginny. After considering this for a while, she'd
      formulated a question: "So, is this a magical illusion, or-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Dumbledore. The glass between them disappeared.
      Dumbledore extended his hand to Ginny, and she took it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't feel any magic," said Ginny, careful to avoid the tone
      of a complaint. "And my wand's disappeared from my robes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where we're going, we won't need wands to spell," said
      Dumbledore, and Ginny followed him out of the room, into a white,
      angelic version of the Department of Mysteries. Ginny was too
      awestruck to comment on it. "Through this door," he said, and
      pointed. "Chance." Ginny entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were dozens of images of Luna here, none of them aware of
      each other, or Ginny or Dumbledore, or perhaps even their
      environment. They faded in and out of visibility too quickly to
      keep track of any one of them for very long. All of them were
      obviously depressed; many had completely broken down crying. One
      solemnly sent up red fireworks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You truly cared for this girl, I take it?" said Dumbledore. He
      clapped his hands and the images disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She truly cares for you," said Dumbledore. "In many futures,
      after your death, she goes on to lead the Church in your name. She
      becomes one of the enemies Harry fears the most."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," said Ginny. "Many futures? The power of Bayes is real? I
      thought it was just a useful method for thinking about things
      statistically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Dumbledore. "That's the great lost secret of chance,
      that Harry stumbled upon but failed to realize the true
      implications of. The multiple universes formed after every
      probabilistic event are a literal physical reality – and everything
      is made of constantly occurring probabilistic events. The number of
      different universes in which you exist is too large for you to
      truly understand in your current form. But the celestial is
      deterministic." Ginny blinked and tried to take this all in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what about Time-Turners and prophecies?" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They merely squeeze probability," said Dumbledore, "forcing
      certain events that would otherwise be unlikely to be nearly
      certain. Now, come with me to the Time room." Ginny followed
      Dumbledore, in the longest and shortest walk of her life, across
      the white rotunda into another room, where she was looking down a
      vast well with no end in sight – the legendary Well of Time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Well of Time," began Dumbledore, "is, as you know, conic –
      though it is so deep and so thin that this is hard to see. The
      conic nature of the Well of Time is a useful teaching tool – as
      time really does grow wider as it goes on. But because of the
      extreme nature of the universes' multitudes, time actually grows
      wider with each instant as a hyperbolic cone does – which is to
      say, exponentially." The room, and Ginny's mode of perception,
      suddenly warped, and she could see the entire Well of Time – which
      was not an infinitely tall cylindrical cavity, nor a large conical
      cavity, but a vast, strangely-curved cavity for an impossibly wide
      tree. Most of the volume was concentrated incredibly close to the
      top – and that would have been true no matter where you cut the top
      of the function off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a lifetime, we humans only experience one outcome," said
      Dumbledore. "But that is not all that there is. All outcomes occur,
      and we truly experience all outcomes. Humans are not timelines,
      Ginny, but probability trees. Our perception that we are timelines
      is an illusion, an illusion that defines our time in life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What a sickly tree that is," said Dumbledore, gesturing with
      disgust towards a human embryo floating in space, which, before
      Ginny's eyes, phased itself into a tree made of worms made of human
      forms, which grew upwards, futurewards. "Its root is in 1926, and
      oftentimes it's still causing problems more than seventy years
      later. Rarely is it ever redeemed. It is addled by its role in fate
      – as you are privileged by yours, Third Seventh Son." Ginny flushed
      a deep red, and she acknowledged to herself that her virtues were
      largely accidents of birth and hence scarcely praiseworthy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did he kill me?" said Ginny. She quickly added: "This
      time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, to begin with, he hated you," said Dumbledore. "That's
      why he went to such lengths to spite you. That's why he publicized
      your most embarrassing and sensitive secrets, with gleeful
      knowledge that it would send murderous agents of the fallen
      advocate Gabriel after you. He hated you because of the opposition
      between your role in fate and his. But he also feared you, and
      there's a much more concrete reason for that. He feared you, and
      the entire Church, because he learned that God existed, and that
      foul wizards with enchanted iron chariots had trapped Him and
      disempowered Him, thousands of years ago. He feared what you, and
      the Church, would do if you found out He was being kept in the
      Department of Mysteries. Most of all, he feared what God would do
      if He were reempowered. His efforts were all for nothing, though,
      because in all timelines, God is eventually freed and restored to
      His full power. And do you know what he does immediately, every
      single time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Ginny; her voice had gone soft.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He forgives everyone," said Dumbledore, in a bizarrely
      threatening tone. Suddenly, Ginny was standing in a different room,
      looking at a great stone portal with a cloth curtain hanging down
      from it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that it matters," said Dumbledore, though Ginny could no
      longer see him, "because even Harry Potter is redeemed on occasion.
      Everyone is, and that's all that matters. Because as long as you're
      redeemed at least once, in at least one timeline... well, on death,
      when we exit conventional reality, we all need to be translated
      into a celestial form – a deterministic form. We come to understand
      each and every one of our alternate selves, and so we become them.
      All of our selves converge through that long learning process into
      a single, final self. If any one of us accepts redemption, they
      have accepted redemption for all of us. If any one of us has found
      the truth, that truth will spread to all of us. There is a Hell,
      Ginny, or at least a Purgatory, and it's the sensation that you
      should have done better because you now know that you could have
      done better. But it fades when you become the same individual who
      did do better – and the same individual who did worse still. We all
      eventually pull out to become our full lifetime probability
      distribution. And then we have the rest of eternity to be
      perfect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny stepped forward through the Veil, all of her anxiety
      flowing away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to the next great adventure, Mr. Weasley."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  

</body></html>
