<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence - Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence Chapter 5: Dis-, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="41. Ginny Weasley and the Sealed Intelligence"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Dis-</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dear Mum,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I've been Sorted into Slytherin. I hope you're not upset. Is
      there any reason I would be a Parselmouth, though? They checked to
      see if I speak Parseltongue and it turns out I do. Here's hoping
      you can resolve my confusion. Hoping Bill is well!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Love,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ginny</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny sealed her letter and, on an offer from Blaise Zabini,
      paid a Knut for a Public Encryption Charm in case it was
      intercepted. She then had it sent to the Owlery just before the
      feast ended and the students were shown to their dorms. Nothing
      quite felt real. Ginny became disillusioned with Gryffindor house
      long ago, but she had never felt more distant from her family than
      she did now. What kind of Weasley was quickly Sorted into Slytherin
      and spoke Parseltongue, anyway? Not that speaking Parseltongue was
      actually evil – Harry Potter did, after all – but what was Ginny
      thinking? The Potter family hadn't spoken Parseltongue; Harry only
      did because Voldemort had. Ginny tried to imagine Godric Gryffindor
      approaching her, kneeling down, and telling her in a very serious
      tone that she was a bad person. On some level, she wouldn't even
      care. Godric Gryffindor had been the worst Founder, anyway. He
      couldn't even cast a Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the way to their dorms, Luna briefly broke away from the
      Ravenclaws to meet Ginny. She was absolutely beaming, radiating
      happiness beyond her normal personality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny!" called Luna. "I was wrong about you! One of the
      prophecies on your hand! The one I didn't tell you because I
      thought it was inappropriate! I misinterpreted it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It said you'd be a friend of snakes." said Luna. "It meant
      you'd be sorted into Slytherin. I thought it meant something else."
      Ginny smiled, although she chose not to guess how Luna had
      originally interpreted it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'm still going to be magically strangled to death,
      though," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only if you get married," said Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh huh," said Ginny. "Later!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye!" said Luna, and Ginny thought she saw her blow a kiss,
      but it was probably just something else, misinterpreted. The crowd
      of students swirled around and into itself, and Luna
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Four left turns around the same column led to the flight of
      stairs down to Hogwarts' dungeon complex, which contained the
      Potions classes, the Slytherin dormitories, and the lake
      maintenance system. They were all rather dull to be dungeons,
      though Harry had commissioned some improvements over the summer;
      there were some bridges over bottomless pits, now, at least. There
      were full-height chain-link fences to prevent anyone from falling
      in, and a Human Zero Gravity Charm above the critically dangerous
      height, just in case. The pits were supposed to be decoration, not
      a safety hazard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Ginny finally entered her Common Room (the password:
      "Crocodile's Tears") she felt a twinge of regret for her Sorting.
      Before her stood the most miserable collection of children
      imaginable; only slowly pouring in were the new students and the
      happy (or at least happier) old ones. The first people in were the
      children who now lived here, the orphans of Death Eaters. Draco,
      who Ginny had been intrigued to meet, barely looked better; his
      mother had been miraculously found alive after a decade missing,
      but that hadn't brought his father back to life – not to mention
      that, however happy he was to find his mother alive, he had still
      only really met his new guardian this summer, and she had an entire
      decade of magical events to catch up with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," said one of the oldest boys present, Lesath Lestrange,
      who towered over Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi," said Ginny, getting distinctly uncomfortable. Did they
      have a different sense of personal space here in Slytherin? No,
      looking around, nobody else was acting like him. Weird. "I'm Ginny
      Weasley, I'm a first year. I just got Sorted here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I heard," said Lesath. "Everyone was talking about it because
      the Weasleys have been a Gryffindor family for so long.
      Congratulations on getting into Slytherin. I'm Lesath."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lesath Lestrange?" said Ginny. "Delighted. I heard you're a
      friend of Harry Potter?" Lesath's tone suddenly, momentarily
      changed, taking on a deadly serious, rather than casual, aura.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I owe Harry Potter my life," said Lesath. He leaned in and
      Ginny got the distinctly unpleasant impression that he intended to
      kiss her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey! Ginny!" called Tracey, who had noticed the situation and
      was approaching. "Let's go in the Girls' Dormitory and arrange our
      stuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Ginny, slipping away from Lesath, who left
      sensing something amiss. What was up with him? Anyway, Ginny
      started through the archway to the Girls' Dormitory-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-and was stopped by a brick wall that manifested very precisely
      in her way. Every brick she was touching was visible, and every
      brick she was not was not. Fortunately, she had not collided with
      it fast enough to injure herself. It had clearly not been there
      mere seconds ago – Tracey had passed through the archway without
      incident.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's going on?" said Tracey, turning around to see Ginny
      slightly hurt and very confused. She ran back to the archway and
      faced Ginny. "That's not – that's not right." Wherever Tracey put
      her hands through, they freely passed through. But it seemed that
      the archway was just not permeable to Ginny. "Hang on, I'll get
      somebody." Tracey slipped back into the Common Room, and ran to the
      Boys' Dormitory, screaming "Lesath, what did you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny smacked the space in front of her repeatedly, literally
      running up against a brick wall. On some level she intuitively
      understood part of what had happened. This was Hogwarts' security
      measure to keep boys out of the Girls' Dormitory. For some reason,
      the system considered her to be a boy. But why? Ginny could not
      remember ever being a boy. Ginny was aware of some of the inherent
      differences between boys and girls, and despite having so many
      brothers and liking to play outdoors, she was definitely all girl.
      Would people notice, or if not would they still find out some other
      way? Would there be talk? What would people think about her? Was
      she ever going to get into the Girls' Dormitory? Oh no, Draco was
      standing behind her, watching! He'd seen her hit the empty air and
      manifest the brick wall! He knew! There would be talk! Draco left,
      having more interesting things to watch, and Ginny realized that he
      was a friend of Harry's, too! Utter disaster!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Slughorn found Ginny on the floor near the archway
      with all of her things, crying. The Potions Master looked rather
      mortified, himself. He helped her up and spoke carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginevra Weasley?" said Professor Slughorn. "The door isn't
      working for you?" She nodded. "Don't worry. I'll get you to Madam
      Pomfrey at once." Ginny continued to cry on her way to the
      Infirmary, because now she knew that whatever the cause of her
      distress truly was, it was suspected to be a disease. She was sick,
      and would need to be fixed - if she could be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Slughorn?" said Ginny, as they finally neared their
      destination. "What if I can never get in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not possible," said the Professor. "These errors can be fixed
      instantly; we just need to have Madam Pomfrey diagnose the
      problem." Speak of the devil, there Madam Pomfrey was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You again," said Madam Pomfrey, clearly trying to lighten the
      mood. Professor Slughorn whispered something to her. "Ah. Come
      right in, Ginny." Ginny entered the Infirmary and, as directed, sat
      down on a bed, while Professor Slughorn returned to the dungeons,
      his work complete. "Lie down." Ginny did, and she could feel a wand
      being moved around her. She heard no less than five diagnostic
      Charms performed. Madam Pomfrey muttered something to herself, and
      then said, "You can sit up now. Are you feeling alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Ginny, and she sat up, taking in the scene of the
      empty hospital ward around her. She had just lied, but not enough
      that Madam Pomfrey cared. She had already summoned a piece of
      parchment on a stand and was drawing on it as a visual aid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Madam Pomfrey. "Methods of determining sex, or
      gender, can essentially be divided into three categories. First
      there's the physical, or the biological, the things Muggle doctors
      can check. That can be further subdivided into the anatomical -
      which genitalia you have, not that difficult - the hormonal - which
      chemicals run around in your body and muck stuff up during puberty
      - and the chromosomal, which I don't even completely understand.
      Now, all of these subsets can have their own problems, but you
      don't have any of those. You are completely physically a girl.
      Congratulations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," said Ginny, exactly as sarcastically as the
      "congratulations" she was answering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All of that can be fooled by Polyjuice," said Madam Pomfrey,
      "or, or if you're a Metamorphmagus. You didn't show up on my
      diagnostic as a Metamorphmagus, though, so I'm going to keep you in
      here overnight to make sure you're not a male impostor using
      Polyjuice, and then we'll call that good. Then, there's the mental
      aspect of sex or gender, which is partway between Muggle medicine
      and ours. Whether you feel deep inside like you're a boy or a girl.
      Partially the result of socialization, and partially the result of
      physical aspects like brain structure and hormonal balance and so
      on. Now, Muggles can only really approach this subjectively, in
      general, by talking to patients and asking them what they think. We
      can be more objective, with Legilimency, but there's still a chance
      that we're dealing with a perfect Occlumens. I've already performed
      Legilimency, but just to be as thorough <em class="calibre8">as possible</em>, I'll
      ask: have you, honestly, ever felt any confusion or discomfort with
      your gender?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not until just now," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, then," said Madam Pomfrey, "I'd say you're mentally
      female, too. That, or a perfect Occlumens. That only leaves the
      third way of determining gender, magical, and there's our problem.
      Everyone has a magical signature on their soul that says several
      things about them - and one of those is gender. That's what the
      girls' wards in our school check. Now, usually someone's magical
      gender is the same as their physical and mental gender. If there's
      a mismatch between their physical and mental gender, totally up in
      the air what their magical gender is. Likewise, if their physical
      gender is screwed up, totally arbitrary. I couldn't guess what
      magical gender a hermaphrodite gets. But, ever so occasionally,
      stuff happens. Someone is totally physically and mentally a boy,
      but they're magically considered a girl. Or vice versa. Not
      predictable at all. Looks like that's what happened to you. That,
      or you're carrying a Dark Wizard's soul. But I think only Harry
      Potter has to deal with that. Shouldn't have said that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what's going to happen to me?" said Ginny, still in
      disarray.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tomorrow, when we're sure you're really who you say you are,
      we're going to tell the wards they made a mistake and should
      recognize you as a girl, and then you'll move into the Slytherin
      Girls' Dormitory like you were supposed to tonight," said Madam
      Pomfrey. "Long term? Nothing. Maybe you'll have to check a box
      occasionally on Ministry paperwork, or you have a slightly higher
      chance of having Squibs. But basically nothing. Now, get some rest;
      you need it. I'll bring you some tea to help you sleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," said Ginny, but she did not get much rest that
      night. Ginny felt a profound magical dysphoria: who, really, was
      she? Was she really a girl? What would her parents think? What
      would God think? When Ginny finally drifted off, it was only by
      disconnecting with the world.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aftermath, Draco Malfoy:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy's thoughts centered on the new girl that night. Or
      perhaps the new boy? Draco could feel on some deep level that Ginny
      was a girl; she was too pretty not to be. But he had just seen an
      objective magical test indicating that she wasn't. That would fit
      with the pattern; there were far too many Weasleys and they were
      all boys. If Ginny were a boy, she would be-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-oh. <em class="calibre8">Oh.</em> Father would have to hear about-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tim would have to hear about this.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
