<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic - Continuing HPMoR: Hacking the Source of Magic Chapter 2: Finding, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Finding</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">He arrived in a dark, round room, lit largely by the silver
      light of the patronus. The walls appeared to be made of a similar
      dark stone to the Wizengamot chamber, and a cylindrical block,
      maybe a meter tall and made of apparently the same material, sat in
      the center of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" He addressed the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A transparent, shining figure appeared, while the ambient light
      increased from no visible source. Harry allowed the patronus to
      fade out after no longer needing the light. The figure replied in a
      language that was not English, but which Harry's mind seamlessly
      interpreted as, "Welcome to Atlantis Mainframe Number 7. How may I
      assist you today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Awesome, I found the source of magic" Harry thought at first,
      quickly interrupted by another thought, "How many mainframes are
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Atlantis Mainframes 1 through 6 and 8 through 10 currently
      appear to be off-line for maintenance. At this time, all requests
      are being forwarded to Mainframe 7."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long ago was one of the other mainframes last on-line?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One million, seven-hundred twenty-eight thousand, three-hundred
      forty-two days, seven hours and twenty-six minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, those should be fixed any day now... Time to find out
      what this thing knows", Harry thought. Then requested "Tell me
      about the magic used to create the Sorting Hat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That information is available only to users with access level
      zero through two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naturally", Harry thought, "nothing could be that easy", and
      said, "What is my access level?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Level Three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought for a moment. "Is there really an afterlife?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That information is available only to users with access level
      zero through two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting, that sounded like a 'yes'" Harry thought. "Unless
      it's programmed to say that when it doesn't understand a question,
      or doesn't have the information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What limit, if any, is there on how far backwards in time you
      can send something?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This system is not able to induce time travel and is disallowed
      from attempting it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But... I have a time machine. How do Time-Turners work if you
      can't do time travel?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This system simulates the future seven hours in advance. When
      someone with a time-turner is predicted to want to travel back in
      time, the system has at least an hour to calculate a stable
      time-loop. If a solution is found, the memories from the simulation
      of the individual's first pass through time are added to their
      memory, and they are teleported to the location where they intended
      to return. Other actions are performed as necessary to emulate the
      individual's first pass through time in the real world. If no
      solution is found, the individual is prevented from making the
      attempt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap, that rules out plans 'A' and 'B'," Harry muttered,
      annoyed that he wouldn't be able to change time, or even go back-
      he was conscious of his own existence at that moment; this couldn't
      just be a memory added to his mind to fake a previous time-loop.
      Did that mean he couldn't use the Time-Turner now? "I guess that
      explains how it works, and the quirks involved. But why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That information is not available."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wasn't really asking you, but at least that answers the access
      level availability thing" Harry thought, then asking "Where do new
      spells come from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Level three users can produce customized spells using
      preexisting spell templates. Level two users can write programs
      using existing basic functions. Level one users can create new
      basic functions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you determine who is a level 3 user?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A genetic marker. Individuals with one copy are level 4 users,
      with two copies are level 3 users." Harry allowed himself to
      briefly be proud of having correctly discovered that. Then he
      decided it was time to upgrade his access.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make me a level two user."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That function is available only to users with access level zero
      through two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are the names of living users with those access
      levels?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That information is available only to users with access level
      zero through two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What information is available to users with access level
      three?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All information not restricted to higher access levels is
      available with access level three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Answer the question without using a tautology."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"New information is stored faster than your mind could absorb
      it. Answering your question without self-reference is not
      possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, what did the last level three user do in here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was here primarily for historical research and also viewed
      scenes from her own past."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have videos of the past?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This system collects a great deal of information in order to
      maintain the 7 hour forward simulation. A subset of that is
      permanently stored. Significant events can typically be
      reconstructed with high accuracy. Other events can be reconstructed
      with reasonable accuracy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show me the last person who was in this room from the moment
      they entered."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The transparent figure disappeared, and a new figure, an old man
      in a black robe, apparated in the room and walked to the cylinder.
      After a few steps, the original figure reappeared and addressed the
      robed man, "Welcome to Atlantis Mainframe Number 7, Lord Merlin.
      How may I assist you today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The image of Merlin ignored the greeting, drew a short, dark
      stone rod from his robes, and touched it to the cylindrical block.
      He spoke a series of syllables that failed to translate. Harry
      repeated them to himself over and over, trying to will them into
      his long-term memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Create a program named 'interdict' at level one access, which
      takes one object; define 'protected spell' as any spell that
      monitors a location or object and autonomously calls other spells
      in response to events it monitors; if input object is a ghost or
      painting, purge from object's memory all protected spells; if
      object is a document, obscure all text recording protected spells;
      Save program. For all existing objects such that the object is a
      ghost, painting, or document, interdict object."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a pause, then "operation complete."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Run at level one access: when an object that is a ghost,
      painting, or document is created, interdict object."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Understood. Is there anything else you need?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Merlin's appearance changed: he suddenly looked decades younger,
      and unrecognizable as the previous person. "Transport me to Italy.
      Somewhere with a beach, I could use a vacation for the next few
      decades." An instant later he was gone.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
