<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic - Continuing HPMoR: Hacking the Source of Magic Chapter 5: Going Backwards, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Going Backwards</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">An image of the potions classroom appeared. Harry remembered it
      as the 15th, based on the supplies laid out, but subtle details
      didn't quite match his memory. He knew human memory to be
      unreliable, but this looked more like a reconstruction based on a
      composite of this potions lesson, taught over many years, overlaid
      with that day's attendance record. So details in these records
      weren't necessarily reliable. Then the system switched to a
      different classroom. "Skip to the next record" Harry
      instructed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He skipped through a number of other scenes of classrooms and
      lunches, with Hermione not approaching or talking to anyone, and
      sitting in the background reading in any other records that had
      been stored. "At least this explains her behavior that week." Harry
      whispered to himself "if she'd talked to people, they'd have
      noticed it wasn't really her." He raised his voice and added "Skip
      the classroom scenes, anything in the dorms, and anything where
      she's alone or not interacting with anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He watched Professor Quirrell try to convince her to give up
      being a hero or leave Hogwarts, alternately shaking his head and
      nodding at various points.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next, Hermione was in the infirmary, following the Wizengamot
      trial. "So Dumbledore did have a plan to protect her then" Harry
      thought. "I guess that also explains why he would lie to me about
      it: if you're going to go to the trouble of faking someone's death
      and putting them in the equivalent of witness protection, you want
      everyone to play along until it's finished. Especially because he
      doesn't realize how much experience I have keeping secrets. He
      probably thinks he knows all of mine. And it definitely explains
      why he was so opposed to me spending money to save her- not only
      was it a waste of money, it kept replica-Hermione around where
      someone could discover what he had done, while real Hermione was
      already safe elsewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Harry frowned. Dumbledore had entered and was talking to
      Hermione. "Why is he talking to repli-mione? For whose benefit is
      this conversation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry mostly ignored the playback of Hermione's trial,
      interrogation, and arrest while thinking about it. Dumbledore must
      be so skilled at transfiguration that his creation could convince
      trained Aurors. Perhaps he hadn't wanted to leave additional
      evidence of memory charms in case someone looked again in the near
      future. Or perhaps talking was simply faster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Harry caught sight of himself scaring the Dementor.
      "Pause." he said. "While I'm thinking about it, I want all
      Dementors destroyed, immediately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Operation complete."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And lock out any spell that creates new ones... to level one
      access?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Operation complete."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ending Dementors and fixing death had been Harry's priorities,
      but now he briefly considered asking the system to give him a
      phoenix. He decided to think about that later: there were other
      higher-priority tasks. "Is there such a thing as a 'horcrux'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Horcrux creation refers to a method of preventing
      converted brain scans from being run in the afterlife simulation.
      Other spells can allow the stored consciousness to interact with
      this system and with reality."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many individuals have at least one existing horcrux? And is
      Tom Riddle or Voldemort one of them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five and yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Undo the horcrux spells, and prevent the Riddle/Voldemort
      consciousness from thinking, interacting with anything or being
      transfered anywhere without level one access."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Operation complete... Program 'Genome to Body' also
      complete."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Time to cheat death", thought Harry, "Resurrect Lily
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Operation in progress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, it didn't give me an error. That's probably a good
      sign... Resurrect James Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Operation in progress."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Resume displaying information about Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next scene was the duel with Draco. The events were
      surprisingly similar to the testimonies presented at the trial,
      given the typical unreliability of witnesses: there was a duel and
      Draco had a significant advantage both in dueling technique and
      magical strength (because this time he hadn't used a large amount
      of magic beforehand). However, Hermione had never learned dueling,
      and had never learned to respect the rules and customs involved;
      she had learned to fight from Quirrell's Battle Magic lessons and
      armies. She pretended to be knocked out, falling behind a row of
      trophies. Draco declared victory and as he turned to leave,
      Hermione jumped up and shot him in the back. The image showed her
      applying the blood-cooling curse and walking away. "So Dumbledore's
      plan wasn't to protect Hermione, it was to attack Lucius through
      Draco, as Professor Quirrell had predicted. I did not think he was
      capable of that. Assuming, of course, that this was what actually
      happened, not just a reconstruction based on Wizengamot
      transcripts." Harry now watched Draco and Hermione's duel during
      the last of Quirrell's battles. He had previously only heard
      second-hand descriptions, and had never imagined Hermione that
      angry, or that creative in using spells offensively, so it was easy
      for him to believe this was the copy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The playback had now moved back to the aftermath of Quirrell's
      defeat and embarrassment of the Hogwarts bullies. "Had a
      transfigured Hermione been around THAT long?" Harry wondered.
      "Again, that would explain why Dumbledore was upset by our efforts
      to win, but were there also transfigured copies of the other
      students involved?" He briefly pondered how deep that rabbit hole
      might go... "No" he concluded "that many students replaced for that
      long couldn't possibly go unnoticed. This is approaching a
      conspiracy theory in complexity." He thought for another minute.
      "Maybe it just assumed I didn't want replays of what it already
      showed me? That's probably the most likely explanation." Then he
      watched Hermione demand his promise to ask before interfering in
      her life. "That has to be the real Hermione. It skipped the
      transfiguration scene." He considered stopping the playback and
      just asking for the system to show him the scenes he was looking
      for, but didn't. Or couldn't. "Probably nostalgia" he thought,
      though feeling a darker thought forming in his subconscious
      mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched first-year Hufflepuff Susan Bones single-handedly
      defeat three older students who were experienced in dueling and
      battle magic. "Hey, identify that person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nymphodora Tonks, seventh-year Hogwarts student, House
      Hufflepuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, okay. Having a seventh-year helping them explains a
      lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled as he watched Draco help Hermione up in the Great
      Hall, then his smile faded as he watched the previous fight- "SNAPE
      was helping them? What is with this school?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry watched the protest outside Dumbledore's office, he
      said to himself "Okay, there's no way Dumbledore planned that. He
      seems so surprised and annoyed by the whole thing. Further evidence
      the mainframe skipped the scene where Dumbledore transfigured the
      copy of Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now Dumbledore was lecturing Hermione in his office:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...And perhaps the name of Hermione Granger will be remembered
      as his companion, if you prove worthy of it in your day. For this I
      tell you true: never will you find more glory on your own, than in
      Harry Potter's company."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head rapidly. "But that's not -" She'd known
      she wouldn't be able to explain. "It's not about glory, it's about
      being - something that belongs to someone else!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's pretty conclusive. It's definitely skipping scenes it
      already showed me. There's no reason to transfigure a copy of
      someone to argue with you." Harry thought, despite sensing a
      terrible thought hovering just past the reach of his conscious
      mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Harry watched Professor Quirrell talk to him, Draco, and
      Hermione, and then watched himself and Neville defeat the Sunshine
      Regiment, he began to notice whispered voices that didn't seem to
      be related to the playback he was watching.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He spun to his left... then smiled and said "Hello!" James and
      Lily Potter stared at him. Lily spoke first "You're Harry... my
      son?" Harry nodded. "How long..." she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ten years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James asked "Where are we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm pretty sure it's a part of Atlantis that survived whatever
      destroyed the rest. Where on the earth, I don't know. A phoenix
      brought me here" Harry said, gesturing a Fawkes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his peripheral vision, he recognized himself walking through
      the Ravenclaw dorm with Fawkes, then heard Hermione yelling at him
      a moment later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm so sorry..." Lily said, "You're dead. We must have been
      brought here to greet you to the afterlife."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, this is different" said James, while Harry said "No, I'm
      here to greet YOU back to the real world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them were briefly distracted by the images of
      students facing a Dementor, and then Dumbledore transporting away
      with Harry. Then Lily replied "That's impossible. Nothing can
      reverse death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled broadly. He looked over at James, who mirrored his
      expression. "I had some objections to the state of the world as it
      was earlier. Luckily this thing-" he gestured at the room and the
      display "has been reasonably helpful about fixing them. The most
      important change being that I can sometimes fix death now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily gasped involuntarily at the image of Harry falling from
      Hogwarts' roof. James addressed Harry "You should know, among your
      ancestors are th-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Peverell brothers? Yeah, I know" Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily gasped again in response to Hermione and Draco following
      Harry onto Hogwarts' roof. "What are you working on now?" James
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My best friend died recently. At least I thought she did. I'm
      trying to figure out what really happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happens if you try to do the same thing for her that you
      did for us?" Lily questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It says it can't find her in the afterlife, but it looks like
      Dumbledore faked her death, so that's not surprising. Unfortunately
      it hasn't been able to find her it the real world either, so she
      must have a different name or something. I asked to see pretty much
      everything reverse-chronologically to find when that happened and
      where she went afterwards, but I think it skipped the parts I was
      looking for, so I'm going to have to stop it and ask it for
      something more specific."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That isn't urgent is it? Can you leave it running for a while?
      We did miss out on years of your life, so this is probably the best
      we're going to get." The images were showing Christmas at the
      Grangers' house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reluctantly nodded and leaned back against the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What exactly is going on with those mock-battles?" James asked,
      after watching the December lake battle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Quirrell is apparently the best Defense Against the
      Dark Arts professor in years. He believes strongly in learning by
      experience in realistic situations. Hermione, Draco, and I are the
      leaders if the three armies, and the goal is to stun the members of
      the other armies and be the last group standing. It requires
      thinking of new, creative tactics for every battle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should probably say something about the dangers of playing
      with magic like that..." Lily began, while watching one Harry and
      Hermione's experiments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what are the odds that would help?" finished James. "And it
      looks like you've been pretty successful with ignoring the limits
      everyone else has told you about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have no idea..." Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Slytherin. Just kidding Ravenclaw? What did you do to Sorting
      Hat?" Lily exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James started laughing, "You tried to negotiate with it for
      something, didn't you? It threatened me with Slytherin if I didn't
      stop annoying it and cooperate with the sorting. Of course I didn't
      push it any further after that; I thought it was serious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is a great prank. I wish I'd thought of it at your age"
      James announced after watching Hermione jump up, ready to flee the
      train car after Harry snapped his fingers and the comed-tea
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was kind of mean. You really shouldn't do things like that.
      Especially to friends." Lilly added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, "You saw her challenge me. It had to be
      done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The display had regressed back to Hermione, sitting in the train
      station, reading. And then the previous scene started...</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
