<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic - Continuing HPMoR: Hacking the Source of Magic Chapter 6: Why?, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Why?</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">...In Dumbledore's transfiguration workroom, as he sat and
      concentrated, alone. Harry's jaw dropped; the previously buried
      thought now broke into his stream of consciousness: "What if
      transfigured Hermione is the real Hermione? It explains why the
      source of magic didn't know her, why it couldn't find her, and why
      it couldn't distinguish between the real and transfigured
      versions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was total silence in the room, and Harry couldn't look
      away. Eventually the steel sphere morphed into a human being. James
      and Lily gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James, thoroughly disgusted, asked rhetorically "When did
      Dumbledore become psychotic? What happened to him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would Dumbledore do that? What the hell was he thinking?"
      Harry exclaimed. The system provided him the answer in the best way
      it could...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was nearly the end of summer, so there were no students at
      Hogwarts. Some of the professors were preparing lessons, but most
      were still away. The Wizengamot was on summer recess, and the
      International Confederation of Wizards wasn't scheduled to meet for
      months. So Dumbledore had some free time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore hated having free time. He tried to keep at least
      sixteen hours a day scheduled and then relied on his time-turner to
      deal with anything unexpected. Otherwise he had time to think. And
      when he started thinking he usually found himself in the most
      depressing place in his world, the memorial room above his office,
      thinking about all the people who had died following him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused to inspect the memorials for James and Lily Potter. He
      couldn't help thinking about them now that their son was preparing
      to start his first year at Hogwarts. It especially didn't help that
      Voldemort would rise again and Harry was prophesied to be the only
      one who could stop him, likely at the cost of his own life. He
      forced himself to step forward, though this brought no relief, only
      different names, and his memories of them and their own surviving
      family members.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore turned and descended the stairs back to his office;
      Minerva McGonagall had just passed the gargoyles. He sat at his
      desk, pretended to be in a good mood, and willed the door to open.
      After she entered, he asked "So, my dear, how did you find
      Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't read minds without consent unless there was an
      important reason, and McGonagall was clearly in no mood for a
      lengthy verbal or telepathic interview. Her attitude communicated
      something like "I can't explain; you have to meet him for
      yourself". At least this gave him something to do. After she left,
      he pulled on the cloak of invisibility, turned his time-turner back
      six hours, and had Fawkes drop him off in Diagon Alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After watching Harry for six hours, he now understood
      McGonagall's attitude, which he considered a severe under-reaction.
      This boy was supposed to be the hero, to defeat a dark wizard,
      while instead he seemed to delight in causing chaos, plotting for
      his own gain, and was possibly considering dark wizardry and world
      domination. And he was apparently intelligent enough to be
      successful at any of those goals, given enough time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had spent the past few hours pondering how to
      influence the Harry he was seeing to grow into the hero the country
      would need, but failed to come up with a plan he was happy with.
      Now he was out of time; McGonagall had said goodbye and apparated
      away and Harry was walking to the door of The Leaky Cauldron, so he
      chose a plan. A few families happened to be fresh in his mind from
      his memorial room, including one Muggle couple that had no
      children, and would therefore require the least effort and fewest
      memory charms to work with...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stepped toward Harry and whispered "Hermione Granger... Look
      for a first-year girl named Hermione Granger on the train to
      Hogwarts." Then he apparated away as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few days later, Dumbledore went to his transfiguration
      workroom, touched his wand to a steel sphere and began
      concentrating. He had found some pictures of Roberta Granger and
      her mother, both of whom he was using as a goal, knowing that
      otherwise he would likely end up with a copy of Ariana. Long ago,
      he had awed his transfiguration professor by producing magical
      creatures, but this was his first attempt at a person. He took his
      best guess at how much magical strength a first year student should
      have, figuring he should probably get as close to average as
      possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A while later, a blank Hermione Granger existed. Dumbledore's
      primary goals for this person were to push Harry to focus on
      schoolwork, to learn as quickly as possible by competing with him
      academically, and to become his friend and use that influence to
      pressure him to do the right thing rather than compromising ethical
      standards while plotting to achieve his ambitions. Applying memory
      charms of experiences was tedious, requiring multiple channels to
      be created, each in real-time, and there was no practical way to
      implement this for a whole life, even for a child. However,
      applying memory charms of knowledge could be done at much higher
      speeds. He chose for Hermione to have spent most of her life
      reading and studying, having few interactions with other people. He
      memory charmed her with the Hogwarts first year texts, the
      supplemental material for those texts, other books about the
      history of the world and the school, a set of muggle textbooks he
      had obtained earlier that day, and other muggle books he had
      acquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As tedious as memory charms could be, Dumbledore understood
      them. However, he had never tried to create or modify a personality
      before, and wasn't totally sure how to accomplish it, but it was
      critical to his plan. He added a handful of experiential memories
      focused mostly on setting moral precedents: helping others when
      possible and enjoying it, being outraged at seeing others do bad
      things, and following the requests of her parents and teachers and
      enjoying their resulting praise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then woke her up with an innervate, and asked her a few
      questions to verify that her memory and personality were about
      right, which they were, surprisingly enough. Dumbledore then called
      for Fawkes, and the three of them transported to the train station,
      where he left Hermione with a trunk and a book to wait for Harry
      Potter and the train to Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The flashback concluded with a line of a conversation Harry had
      almost forgotten:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...I'm sorry to say, Harry, that I am responsible for virtually
      everything bad that has ever happened to you. I know that this will
      probably make you very angry...I wanted to tell you as early as
      possible, in case something happens to one of us later, that I am
      truly, truly sorry. For everything that has already happened, and
      everything that will."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
