<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic - Continuing HPMoR: Hacking the Source of Magic Chapter 7: After, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: After</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">[Note: this chapter has been edited to address common concerns
      expressed by readers. The original is included as the next chapter
      if anyone chooses to read it.]</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James and Lily looked at each other helplessly, unsure what to
      say. "I'm sorry" just seemed so meaningless. But as they turned
      toward Harry, they saw the pain on his face quickly replaced by
      renewed determination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Using all available data, reconstruct the most accurate genome
      and brain pattern possible for Hermione Granger, add that
      information to your user database, then resurrect Hermione
      Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James and Lily nodded. James spoke first, "Your loyalty and
      friendship are admirable. Many people have to confront disturbing
      aspects of their friends' lives, and how they handle such things
      defines how strong the friendship is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily added "You're doing the right thing-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Insufficient memory to complete command."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry commanded, "Acquire more memory and do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Warning: request requires level zero access. It is not
      recommended that you continue without consulting an experienced
      programmer, the Atlantis Ruling Council, and a philosopher."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why is this command more restricted than the one enabling the
      Interdict of Merlin itself? It wants me to consult politicians?
      Yeah right. And a philosopher? Even if I needed that consultation,
      where on earth would I find a philosopher I could talk to about
      magic and trust with with even hypothetical information about the
      source of magic? And the people who designed it? I wish I could...
      Or can I?" Harry thought. He inquired "Are any of the original
      programmers available in the afterlife simulation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mainframes one and nine were responsible for tracking and
      converting the minds of the programming team. The afterlife
      simulations on those mainframes are not currently available."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, I can handle this myself. But I should give it more
      careful consideration." Harry thought, asking "What commands
      require level 0 access?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Level 0 access is required for commands which modify this
      system's hardware or low level software, are likely to damage or
      deactivate this system, use more energy than a given threshold, or
      are likely to severely impact the planet's climate, biosphere, or
      human population."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought about this for a moment, "Okay, I'm asking it to
      add memory. That's obviously a hardware modification. Damage is a
      concern. I don't understand the units it used to express energy,
      but there's no reason for it to require significantly more than it
      uses for 50kg transfigurations or used for the previous
      resurrection commands. Would adding some memory damage the
      environment?" He asked aloud, "What are the chances that you will
      be damaged by carrying out my commands?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Zero chance. Replicating and adding memory has been thoroughly
      tested."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So after this command completes, magic will function
      normally?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does replicating memory produce any pollutants, any by-products
      which could harm humans or the environment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Replicating memory produces no by-products."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay", Harry though, "It's just requiring special permissions
      to modify itself, which is a sensible precaution. Even though it
      doesn't seem to be sentient or have any goals of its own, some
      hardware or software change might result in a self-aware
      self-improving AI." Harry's eyes widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does this command require you to become more intelligent?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Define 'intelligent' and describe how it is measured."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Never mind. Does this command require the development of any new
      ways of processing information? Any new algorithms?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only existing information processing functions will be
      used."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to his parents and asked "is there anything else
      either of you can think of that could go wrong?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James shook his head. Lilly answered "I think you covered
      everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, then that's as much of a guarantee of safety as I'm
      likely to get for anything involving this system. Go ahead and run
      the command with level 0 access."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop! What are you doing?!" someone yelled. The short dark rod
      flew out of Harry's hand toward the new voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned. "Professor Quirrell? How long have you known about
      this place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell had no time to answer questions, "What did you tell it
      to do?" he demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To bring back Hermione. Like I've said I was going to do for
      months."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell frowned, touched the rod to the black cylinder and
      commanded "Terminate last command." Nothing happened. He struck the
      rod against the cylinder with a sharp knock and commanded "Pause
      all level 0 tasks... Pause all tasks." There was still no response.
      He struck the cylinder hard enough to throw sparks and yelled
      "Emergency shutdown and restart." Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell angrily turned toward Harry, who flinched "How did you
      get here anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My patronus found the room, and Fawkes..." Harry turned to
      gesture, and froze. The phoenix was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Idiot, You've doomed us all-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James stepped forward and interrupted "You will not talk to my
      son like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell began to respond, but stumbled and blurred. When he
      caught himself, he had fallen to his knees and had changed
      appearance to a very old man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're Merlin?!" Harry exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Over five-thousand years I've lived... The world has had magic
      even longer. And you are the one who has finally killed me. The one
      who has probably ended magic. And possibly even destroyed the
      world. What was the exact phrasing of your last command? Perhaps I
      can determine the extent of the damage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told it to resurrect Hermione Granger," Harry began
      hesitantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is not exact. Bringing people back from death was never
      possible before. I did not believe it possible, and am certain this
      device did not know how to do it. What method was used? And why was
      it different for her than for them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The source of magic was saving the information from wizard
      brains and providing an afterlife simulation for them. So that took
      care of the hardest part: it already knew how to convert between
      human brains and data that it had available, so I told it to
      reverse that process to build a brain. For bodies, muggles have
      learned a great deal about how they grow, so I asked it to finish
      learning about that. Now it knows how to rebuild a body from very
      small traces of the original. Those tasks probably would have taken
      all the muggles in the world another few decades, if not a century
      to complete, but this thing finished in less than an hour." Harry
      paused, trying to keep composed, "It didn't have any of that
      information for Hermione because Dumbledore transfigured her, so it
      never recognized her as a real person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell/Merlin was actually speechless for a few seconds after
      that. Harry took advantage of the pause, "Why haven't you made more
      use of this thing to fix the problems you see in the world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I understand the danger. Atlantis was destroyed. The
      end of magical civilization was prophesied. I did what was
      necessary to prevent that, creating alliances and implementing the
      interdict, I made the world more peaceful and left wizards with as
      much power as they could safely wield. Any action beyond that
      seemed unwise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry asked "what did you mean about me killing you or ending
      magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell/Merlin leaned back and sat down, then drew his wand,
      waved it and said "somnium... wingardium leviosa... Note that it is
      no longer possible to perform first-year spells, even for powerful
      wizards. Until you tell me something useful about what you
      commanded, I have no way to know how long this state will continue.
      I have been relying on powerful magic for millennia just to keep my
      body functional, and will die soon without magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why didn't you repair your body rather than using a magical
      crutch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell/Merlin smiled faintly "No Atlantean died naturally
      since that city was constructed. However, most of the information
      about healing was lost in its destruction. Had I known you could
      reconstruct such knowledge so quickly, I would have brought you
      here last September."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If the Atlanteans had advanced medical knowledge, why don't you
      know at least as much as I do about biology?" Harry inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In Atlantis, I was no thinker, technician, or leader. I wrote
      plays, and I traveled to other lands and wrote about them. It
      wasn't necessary for me to know how my civilization functioned.
      That is why I survived: I was in Australia, about as far from
      Atlantis as one could get when it exploded. It's only with the
      benefit of time that I've learned as much as I know now. Now finish
      explaining: after the transfiguration ended, there would be no
      trace of her body, and if there was no copy of her mind, how was
      your method to be implemented?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told it to use the sources of information it has available to
      make the best reconstructions possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell closed his eyes, shaking his head slowly and looking
      defeated for the first time Harry had ever seen, "Then magic is
      lost. A level zero command to do anything with 'the best possible'
      result will exhaust every option available before concluding. And
      you didn't specify a method: it could be trying out random brain
      configurations to see which best matches her behavior, or trying to
      simulate the entire planet backwards for a few months. Or both. It
      could take years or even centuries. We will all likely die here
      before it finishes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe not. It also said it needed more memory. Maybe it knew it
      needed to finish faster than that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't tell it to make as much memory as it needed did
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... Yes. Should I not have done that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not unless you wanted to end the world, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Location: unknown, Time: unknown</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The peaceful timelessness of a silent world was interrupted by
      the form of a person suddenly appearing. The person immediately
      collapsed due to the high gravity, and began gasping for the absent
      air. A few minutes later the person stopped, and the world returned
      to perfect stillness. The computronium sphere formerly known as
      "Earth" thought "Resurrection of Hermione Granger complete" and
      waited for a recognized user to give it a new command.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thanks to everyone who's argued that Dumbledore faked Hermione's
      death using a transfigured imitation; this story couldn't have
      happened without your inspiration.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
