<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 4: Swept Up, Pt 2</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="7. HPMoR: The Missing (but Necessary) Chapters"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Swept Up, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Chapter 31 1/4: Swept Up, part 2</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fight Day: T -20 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slid his ring into his pouch and turned to address his
      soldiers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sunshine will have nothing to gain by attacking us or the
      Dragons early, and we don't have any incentive to attack first
      either. Professor Quirrell may call a draw if no one attacks at
      all, so there will be pressure on Draco to attack first. He'll
      probably send out scouts, because he always sends out scouts, and
      then attack for real. I don't know who he'll attack first; it would
      be great if he attacks Sunshine, and then comes after us with
      whatever he has left, so Murphy's Law indicates that he'll probably
      attack us first. And then we'll have to deal with whatever General
      Sunshine has waiting for us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lieutenant Nott, when the gong rings, take your soldiers out
      and set up the ambush we discussed. If the Dragons send high value
      targets with their scouts, especially Goyle, shoot them in the back
      after they pass. Otherwise, we'll handle them, and you just stay
      hidden until the main army arrives. Then approach and hit Goyle
      from behind. Everyone else, once you get into the air, assume the
      cylindrical defensive formation, swarming to prevent anyone from
      counting us, and remember general orders #1 and #2 and your
      tactical training.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T -20 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dragon Army stood at attention as Draco spoke, "As you know,
      the average first year student cannot effectively fight from a
      broom, and Dragon Army has a significant advantage in flying skill.
      Chaos Legion's General Potter, Mr. Nott, and Miss Brown are all
      very skilled on brooms, as are Mr. Weasley and Miss Bones of the
      Sunshine Regiment. However, Mr. Goyle is by far the best of our
      class on a broom, and many among us are more than a match for
      anyone in the other armies. In a fair fight, I would expect us to
      defeat both Chaos and Sunshine even if they work together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few days earlier, Draco had actually had to walk away from
      where his army was practicing so they wouldn't see how upset he
      was. Out of 24 soldiers, including himself, 8 of them, again
      including himself, had spent a significant amount of time either
      playing quidditch with friends and family or taking professional
      lessons (all presumably intending to try out for the house teams at
      Hogwarts starting second year). Those soldiers had readily shown
      the ability to substitute a wand for throwing, catching, or
      batting, and would make a formidable force for the coming battle.
      The other 16... would hopefully also prove useful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco continued, "However, that means we can expect them not to
      fight fairly. Both of their armies have been training heavily for
      this battle, but our spies haven't determined their plans. I don't
      know what tricks they will produce, so fight conservatively and be
      aware that unexpected things will happen. Expect that, somehow,
      what looks like an easy score will turn into an ambush. Let the
      battle be a slow war of attrition where the most skilled at flying
      and aiming hexes will decide the battle. Those of you who are
      skilled have instructions to target the skilled members of the
      other armies. Those of you who are less experienced are to stay
      disciplined, try to take out the unskilled masses of the other
      armies when possible, but be ready for new orders when targets of
      opportunity arise." For example, serving as human shields or flying
      into obvious traps to see what happens, he added silently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Captain Goyle will be taking four soldiers and flying toward
      the Sunshine Regiment for a very important scouting and stealth
      attack mission. Goyle, you are allowed to take out their soldiers
      when you can do it safely, but let me be clear: I'm not asking your
      team to take out their army alone. Your priority is to learn their
      strategy and tactics; reducing their numbers when convenient is a
      secondary goal." Gregory nodded in acknowledgement, but still
      clearly wasn't happy with this role.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Captain Boot will similarly be taking four soldiers toward
      Chaos Legion. He and one of the others are to stay far back to
      ensure they can return safely with the important information they
      will collect. The other three of you are to approach the enemy, do
      a quick attack run and then return. If you have an opportunity to
      stay longer and inflict some damage, feel encouraged to do so.
      Otherwise just get back here."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 0</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A gong rang out and 72 brooms rose into the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory and his subordinates headed out at a speed that made him
      grind his teeth. Why was everyone <em class="calibre7">so</em> slow? But the boss
      wanted this done carefully, so that's what they'd do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, they saw the enemy. They were clearly headed to join
      the Chaos Legion, despite Zabini's lies. Most of them were barely
      visible in the distance, while Granger herself, with only a couple
      of Hufflepuffs, were much closer, far behind the rest and clearly
      unable to keep up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You two", he said, gesturing at the two slowest, "take them
      out, then catch up with us. We're going to intercept the main force
      of their army." He didn't hesitate before spinning around and
      accelerating toward the Sunnies in the distance while two soldiers
      almost fell off their brooms trying to follow and the other two
      grinned evilly and moved to take on the Sunshine general.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A minute later, they caught up to the Sunshine Regiment.
      Strangely, there were only about a dozen of them. And Weasley and
      Bones were missing; there must be another group further ahead. This
      was terrible discipline: the army should never have been allowed to
      break up like that. Gregory called to the others, "move in, fire at
      the four in the back, then turn and retreat. If none of them follow
      you, turn back around and do another attack run." He then veered
      right and dropped to skim the treetops, narrowly avoiding the
      tallest branches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tigers weren't considered a very Slytherin animal but they were
      Gregory's favorite: the power, the speed, the lethality, and most
      of all, the ability to patiently wait, unseen, until the right time
      to pounce; they're everything a good Slytherin should be. After
      four Sunshine soldiers turned and chased his two Dragons (who had,
      of course, missed every shot, which had been painful to watch) he
      silently waited, until they had all passed him, then pulled up
      behind them. Less than a minute later, all four had been
      eliminated; Daphne, Parvati, and two whose names he couldn't
      recall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He glanced back and saw the remaining eight or ten had turned to
      face him. He was tempted to ignore his orders and take them all on
      alone, but controlled himself. This was a good decision, he
      decided: he saw movement up ahead that appeared to be Chaos Legion,
      possibly close enough to send reinforcements before he could finish
      and depart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He glanced the other way and saw... Granger and her other
      soldiers approaching? How incompetent and useless could his other
      two soldiers have been? They had a perfect opportunity to defeat
      some of the least skilled broom pilots he'd ever seen, from behind,
      no less, and had somehow managed to fail. In that moment, Gregory
      understood the angry look General Malfoy got sometimes, when
      someone didn't follow his plans correctly. Then his eyes widened in
      surprise as he realized what had happened. He called to his two
      remaining soldiers, "come on, we're leaving now. We have to report
      back to Dragon Army".</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T -6 days</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise's eyes lit up. "Ooh, I know the opposite of people
      protecting you: we use you as bait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Gryffindors and Hufflepuffs in the group looked appalled,
      but Hermione was interested, "Give me some more details."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we could start with a group of us flying in some
      direction just above the trees, with you and me and a few others
      falling behind like we just can't keep up. Then, when someone
      attacks, our best fliers, who were just below us, dodging trees out
      of sight, fly up and ambush them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded, "I like it; that sounds promising."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise continued, "And we should probably head toward Chaos
      Legion as soon as possible. They're not likely to be a match for
      the Dragon Army, so they won't want to deplete their forces
      attacking us first. We can probably put Chaos between us and the
      Dragons and then hide until the Dragon Army finishes them off. Our
      best chance will be to pick off the survivors while they're trying
      to regroup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 0</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore Nott lead four additional soldiers quickly away from
      the rest of Chaos Legion. When they could barely recognize them as
      people, rather than flying green blurs, they descended into the
      canopy, resting on branches where they were camouflaged but still
      had a relatively unobstructed view of the sky. It was only a minute
      or two later that they watched the Dragon Army scouts fly
      overhead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They called out names as they recognized the Dragons. "No high
      value targets, they won't last long", Theodore concluded. "We wait
      here until Dragon's main attack force arrives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They watched quietly as the scouts flew on. They saw a flurry of
      activity and a large number of red flashes before everything
      settled again and three dots moved off of the battlefield.
      "Defeated in detail", Theodore noted, smiling.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 5 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terry Boot rushed back to General Malfoy, and quickly reported,
      "Chaos Legion is holding position over their starting location. It
      looked like they were just flying in a couple of circles at
      different altitudes. The others flew right up to the formation and
      got shot pretty quickly. It looked like more people were firing
      more accurately than I expected, so they may be more skilled than
      we had believed, but it was a straight-forward fight with no traps
      or secret weapons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Terry was talking, Gregory arrived and waited impatiently
      for him to finish. "Sunshine Regiment is moving to join up with
      Chaos Legion. They had their army broken into two groups; they made
      it look like their less capable fliers were falling behind, but
      they really had their best people hidden in the trees below them. I
      lost two soldiers to that trap, but I took out four from their lead
      group."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, we know where the battle will be, but we have conflicting
      data about whether they're working together. We'll have to assume
      they are, and that we'll see Chaos Legion alone, only to have
      Sunshine Regiment pop out of somewhere when we're least prepared
      for them. Everyone stay on the lookout and remember your
      assignments." Draco had thought over various tactics and decided to
      simply have his best soldiers pair up and attack the best people in
      whichever army he was facing. The other soldiers were also
      nominally assigned to these teams, but Draco was mostly hoping
      they'd follow and block spells meant for the group leaders.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 7 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry circled over his army, trying to watch every direction. He
      had instructed his soldiers to alert everyone as soon as they saw
      movement, but, of course, it was ultimately his responsibility. He
      thought he caught a glimpse of movement from the direction where
      the Sunshine Regiment had started, but turned his head and saw
      nothing. That direction should have been quiet; logically, the
      Sunnies could not benefit from provoking an early confrontation
      with Chaos Legion, but of course everyone doesn't always behave
      logically. And Harry didn't believe Hermione would have agreed to
      work with Draco but, now that he knew it wasn't unthinkable for
      her, he had to consider the possibility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His thoughts were interrupted by several people shouting. He
      glanced down and saw they were pointing in the direction of Dragon
      Army. Sure enough, he saw a group of over a dozen green dots in the
      distance. "All hands to battle stations! This is not a drill!
      Merlin says execute general order #1 when Lieutenant Nott's team
      attacks Goyle."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 8 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco kept his eyes on Harry while his army slowly approached
      the Chaos Legion defensive formation. The Dragons flew in formation
      with their battle groups, with the groups lined up side by side.
      Goyle was on the right, Crabbe on the left, and Draco in the
      center. The Chaotic soldiers occasionally fired, but were still too
      far away to be a threat to even the least skilled of his soldiers.
      Draco tried to fight down the feeling of optimism: it didn't appear
      that General Chaos had prepared a trap because his soldiers were
      all basically hovering there, waiting to be cut down. He had to
      keep reminding himself that this was Harry Potter, so the
      appearance meant nothing. He was mildly surprised when the majority
      of Potter's army turned and appeared to retreat, half curving
      slightly left and the other half right. He was less surprised when
      someone yelled "five attacking from behind!" He turned to see Goyle
      luminos one of the attackers while dodging fire from the others and
      trying to chasing down Theodore. Knowing what was coming next, he
      yelled "Finch-Fletchley, help Goyle. Everyone else, eyes forward."
      Immediately after, he was forced to dodge several shots converging
      on him. Seven Chaotic soldiers, including General Potter, were
      charging straight at his line. He returned fire at Potter, but
      didn't have time to aim carefully and his shots were easily
      avoided. The Chaotic soldiers flew right through his line without
      slowing down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco spun around, but saw no one. Before he had a chance to
      find them, he saw what the other two groups had planned: they were
      flying along his line firing sideways, one group moving from left
      to right in front and slightly below them, while the other was
      moving from right to left, behind and below, putting his army in a
      crossfire without risking friendly fire. And somehow they all
      appeared to be shooting competently while dodging his army's return
      fire. He lined up a shot and eliminated Neville while ordering
      "break formation and attack". He saw red light falling from above
      and desperately rolled out of the way, allowing him to look up from
      below his broom before rolling back upright and angling upward.
      Potter's group had climbed above him and had managed a crossfire
      from three directions at once.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T -6 days</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The rest of us are going to try some other things... come over
      here so I can demonstrate... I want you to hold your wand against
      the broomstick in your forward hand, like this. Now try to fly the
      same course the way you normally would, except call luminos
      whenever you're pointed at the tree on the right or at the ground
      here." He drew a circle in the dirt with his shoe. Luckily, the
      luminos spell required no specific wand or hand movements, which
      was the only reason he had been able to cast it quickly enough to
      catch Gregory in the first battle. In between watching people dive,
      spin, or fall into the water, he had tried holding his wand against
      the broom in various ways and discovered that the spell was not
      particularly picky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Five minutes later, Harry could see various levels of dizziness
      and nausea in people's faces, but the target tree was bright,
      almost appearing to be on fire. The area on the ground had only a
      few red spots on it, but the people waiting in line for their next
      turn had been hit by an improbable number of 'misses'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, stop, let's try something else. Hold your wands sideways
      in your rear hand, like this. Now, you'll fire sideways and you can
      fly in a circle around a target and keep hitting it. This will
      mostly be effective against targets moving much more slowly than
      you, but I predict we'll have some opportunities to use it. You
      clearly want to fire at other people rather than stationary targets
      and I want to encourage that. I want one person to fly slowly in a
      straight line to the other side of the lake and then back. Another
      person will fly higher and faster, trying to circle the first
      person and light them up as many times as possible. Then the target
      goes to the back of the line, and the attacker becomes the new
      target. Questions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is the target allowed to fire back?" Dean asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. It's no fun if the attacker doesn't even have to
      dodge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another few minutes later, Harry had them join the others joined
      in the running mock battle, which spread to cover most of the lake.
      They were clearly more limited, having to fly directly at someone
      to attack, but there were pre-existing solutions to that
      problem...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T -2 days</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because most of you need to keep both hands on the broom to fly
      effectively, you'll have to hold your wand against the broom with
      your forward hand, in either the forward-firing or sideways-firing
      configurations we practiced. It restricts wand movement enough to
      prevent you from casting most spells, but it's good enough for
      luminos, which is the only spell you'll be using.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some of our opponents will be more skilled, but many will not
      be. They're likely to copy our tactics as quickly as they can.
      Luckily, muggles have been fighting battles with aircraft, with
      similarly oriented weapons, for a long time and have invented lots
      of air combat maneuvers we can use.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For example, there's a maneuver called an Immelman Turn, which
      isn't usually a great tactic because it briefly puts you in a
      vulnerable position, but I think it'll make a nice surprise opening
      against Draco, before he catches on. Basically, when you're flying
      forward, you pull up into a vertical climb, let gravity slow you
      down, and finally flip over into a diving attack. Combined with
      some distractions, I'm hoping we'll get an opportunity to catch
      them off guard when we attack them from above."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 9 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled; first round was bloody, but relatively successful.
      His 'gunships' had taken out three or four dragons, and his
      'fighters' had caught another four or five, though about six of his
      own people were out of the battle, including Theodore, who never
      had a chance against Gregory with only four soldiers backing him
      up. Harry dodged a well-placed shot and regrouped with the others
      for their next move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco yelled "They're holding their wands against the front of
      their brooms so they can steer and fire at the same time. Try doing
      the same if you can't fly and attack otherwise. You have your
      targets. Go, go, go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled again as he overheard Draco's command and turned to
      Dean and Seamus, "You ready to keep Draco off my back?" He shot
      away, angled to the right, while Dean and Seamus moved left. Draco,
      predictably, went after Harry. Wayne flew alongside Draco while
      Padma followed Dean and Seamus. Padma, a quick learner, attempted
      to shoot them while holding her wand against the broom, but having
      no prior practice with this method was a significant handicap.
      Along with the fact that Dean and Seamus were flying a fast and
      tight clockwise turn that she couldn't match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry generally followed a left turn while attempting to move in
      other directions as randomly-appearing as possible. Until he heard
      Draco curse and glanced back, seeing him retreat while Wayne,
      haloed by a red glow, slowly moved away from the battle. Harry
      flicked his wand back and shot Padma as Dean and Seamus passed
      behind him.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T -2 days</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because those aircraft can't defend themselves or attack from
      every angle, they typically work in groups. We'll work together in
      squads like before, but you'll need to be able to leave your squad
      and rejoin another quickly when necessary. When we're on offense,
      we'll use delta formations: the main attacker flies in front, then
      others are behind them, to the right and left, and so on, so
      everyone has a clean shot forward and can shoot anyone who gets
      behind the leader. Yes, Lavender?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it's a V shape? Can't we just call it a V formation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's a delta formation. Anyway, the leader will pick a
      target and fly at them, and everyone else will follow and help. If
      anyone approaches from the sides or from behind, the closest
      soldier or soldiers leave the formation and attack them. The goal
      is just to make them leave the main formation alone so they can
      continue attacking, so if they run away, just rejoin the nearest
      formation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the main defensive formation we'll use is called the thatch
      weave. Basically, split into two groups, fly away from each other,
      then curve back, cross each other's course, then separate and curve
      back again. When someone's chasing the other group, you turn harder
      and it leaves you pointed at the people behind them on the next
      pass, so you can shoot them down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are some other neat moves you can do on your own, but
      that one's the most important."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 11 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey executed what would have been a Pugachev Cubra, if magic
      brooms didn't make the description "supermaneuverable" laughable
      when applied to vectored-thrust jet fighters. While pursued by two
      Dragons, she held her wand against her broom pointed to the right,
      then pulled up and hung on to the now vertical broom which nearly
      stopped in midair. She promptly shot the first soldier, who was
      unable to avoid overshooting past her right side. The other was
      able to turn to the left in time, but she was already spinning the
      broom to the right about its axis and shot him before pitching the
      broom back to horizontal and accelerating off in the opposite
      direction from which she'd started out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lavender flew passed Harry and announced, "Hey, I'm joining your
      delta-V thingy. Goyle broke mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Delta-V equals exhaust velocity times the log of total mass over
      dry mass, Harry's mind supplied before he could stop it. There was
      something important about rocket propulsion that he needed to think
      about, maybe about whether brooms are really reactionless, or- He
      dodged a red beam. No time for magical physics now, his formation
      was playing chicken with Crabbe and Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two groups sped past each other with no hits, but the
      Dragons managed to maneuver behind the Chaotics. Harry saw that
      Draco was also closing in on Tracey, while Terry Boot had Allen
      Flint on the run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"General Order #2", he yelled. The members of Chaos Legion
      simultaneously released long transfigured streamers, and the
      Dragons pursuing them, being forewarned of Chaotic tricks,
      universally pulled up short to avoid them. Of course, none of them
      knew how to enchant the streamers to do anything useful, and
      anything they could do with them, using either technology or magic,
      would probably be banned by the rules for this fight. But it was
      enough to make the Dragons hesitate, as intended.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 12 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron and Susan fired at a pair of Dragon soldiers. No one had
      seen where they'd come, but the soldiers had noticed their
      appearance in time to dodge and counter-attack. The Sunnies
      immediately turned and retreated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco watched his people chase Ron and Susan as they fled. They
      were gaining slowly as the Sunshine soldiers dodged repeatedly. "I
      expected better from Sunshine", Draco wondered aloud. "They don't
      fly as well as the Dragon soldiers. And why would Granger send two
      brooms to attack all of Dragon Army and Chaos Legion? Quick retreat
      was their best case scenario. That doesn't make any sense; what
      were they thinking? And especially why attack now? We're still
      inflicting heavy casualties on each other."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T -6 days</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise continued, "We can probably hide until the Dragon Army
      finishes Chaos Legion off. Our best chance will be to pick off the
      survivors while they're trying to regroup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was unanimous agreement on this point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe most of us could just use the brooms for transportation,
      then get into positions on the ground", Anthony suggested. "Anyone
      flying down through the trees would get slowed down and be less
      maneuverable, so we might be better off there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you guys know about guerrilla warfare?" Hermione
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gorillas fight wars? That's terrifying." Hannah answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's not... never mind" Hermione continued. "Anthony gave
      me an idea. If most of us are on the ground, then we can send a
      couple of soldiers on brooms to approach Chaos Legion and Dragon
      Army while they're fighting, attack quickly and then run back into
      the trees. If anyone follows, the rest of us light them up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something like that will take a lot of speed. And that's why
      racing brooms are the best", Ron concluded proudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm", Hermione said thoughtfully.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 13 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After aborting an attack run on Harry and Tracey, Draco looked
      around for the two soldiers who had gone after the Sunny brooms. He
      a feeling they were done for today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A large dark shape rose from the trees below the battle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell is wrong with her?", Draco exclaimed as the shape
      became clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap... that's actually kind of awesome", Harry said as he and
      Tracey stared at the canopy.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T -6 days</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm", Hermione said thoughtfully, "What about the, what was it,
      Cumulus 500? What should we do with that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could drop heavy things on the other soldiers", Daphne
      suggested. "Though Quirrell would probably object to that violating
      his claws-sheathed-dominance-contest rule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could uproot some trees and build a fort", Ernie said.
      "That's more like what it was designed for: moving large things a
      long distance and putting them in the right places."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would be nice to have some cover, but I can't imagine that
      going quickly or turning out well", Blaise responded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I don't know if professors would like us doing that to the
      forest", Hermione added. "What about people: if we carried extra
      soldiers they could freely aim and fire without worrying about
      flying?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They'd be slow; easier targets than usual", Susan answered,
      then shrugged. "But maybe not as easy of targets as they'd be on
      their own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It just seems not right though", Ron added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise grinned evilly, "Good idea, Ron." Ron turned to him to
      ask the obvious question but flinched instead.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 13 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The object was basically half of Sunshine Regiment. Ernie
      piloted the Cumulus 500, from which a series of straps suspended an
      additional nine soldiers on swing-like fabric seats. If swings had
      5-point harnesses, anyway. Sunshine had apparently spent five
      minutes thinking about flight safety, unlike the average
      wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione actually built a magical aircraft carrier!" Harry
      exclaimed. "It looks like a very non-optimal tactic for this
      battle, but still, points for style."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone briefly paused to watch what the carrier would do.
      Gregory, Vincent, and another Dragon promptly began an attack
      run.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin says don't attack Dragons who are fighting Sunshine
      Regiment", Harry yelled. "We could gain an advantage against our
      strongest enemies that way, but at this point both Chaos Legion and
      Dragon Army are in danger of depleted each other's forces and
      letting Sunshine Regiment actually win", he explained to those
      nearby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three Dragon began firing while still at a significant
      distance, knowing that the extra-large target couldn't dodge
      quickly. By the time they reached a more believable attack range,
      almost all of the Sunshine soldiers were glowing red, except for
      Ernie, who had been shielded. Then the Sunnies drew their wands and
      opened fire. Gregory dodged the massed fire and escaped, and
      Vincent narrowly managed to follow, but the third soldier was
      caught unprepared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So they're just blatantly going to cheat? That's not very
      Sunshine." Lavender commented.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T -6 days</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise grinned evilly, "Professor Quirrell said luminating the
      pilot or broom takes them out of the game. <em class="calibre7">Passengers</em>
      aren't brooms or pilots, so they're immune to luminos. They have to
      be stunned or something else. And some of them could put shields
      around the pilot and broom. Imagine if Draco flew in, carefully
      aimed and shot someone, and then they shot him right back despite
      taking a direct hit. I'd love to see the look on Draco's face."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron replied, "<em class="calibre7">That's</em> definitely not right. Malfoy's
      <em class="calibre7">mine</em>."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 14 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not really flying brooms, are they?" Harry asked
      rhetorically. "Seamus, I want you to circle them at a safe range
      and call 'somnium' frequently. Don't actually cast it; you might
      hit Ernie or another pilot. You're just there as an obvious
      explanation when they start getting stunned. Lavender, fly up that
      way to a hundred meters above them, then put your shadow right
      behind them (so they'd have to look backward and stare at the sun
      to see you) and dive straight at them. Sleep-hex as many of them as
      you can, but don't take any shots that you think you might hit
      Ernie. Then luminate Ernie or the broom when you pass close to
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco fired one last shot at Ron's back before turning around
      and returning to the main battle area. Seeing two of his soldiers
      chase Ron or Susan and not return had been quite enough so he
      called out for Vincent and Justin to let Susan go as well. He
      smiled as he watched Vincent quickly reverse course then chase down
      and eliminate Allen.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 16 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was alone at the moment, Tracey and Dean having heroically
      'sacrificed' themselves by flying directly into Gregory's flight
      path to stop him from shooting Harry. At point-blank range, it was
      impossible for Gregory to miss, but simple conservation laws (mass
      and momentum mostly) prevented them from disappearing out of his
      way after they'd been eliminated. They were thus able to physically
      impede his path for the few seconds Harry needed to get clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfortunately for Harry, Draco and Vincent weren't particularly
      busy, and immediately changed course to converge on him. Deprived
      of wingmen to assist him, Harry decided to play his last trick. He
      pulled up and accelerated to his top speed, climbing straight
      toward the sun, knowing his pursuers wouldn't be able to precisely
      target him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then turned over in the highest g turn where he could safely
      hold onto the broom. He cast contego in front of the broom to both
      deflect incoming fire and act as a windshield during his powered
      dive. He guessed he had only 100 or so milliseconds to register the
      shock on Draco's and Vincent's faces as he blew past them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry impatiently waited thousands more milliseconds before
      pulling the cord on his transfigured parachute, which roughly
      jerked him backwards, allowing him to look up as he rapidly slowed
      down. He had deliberately made the material thin enough that he
      could look through it to see two silhouettes approaching, backlit
      by the bright daylight, while he remained hidden in the parachute's
      shadow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He unclipped the harness and arbitrarily picked the one on the
      left, shooting Crabbe the instant he flew around the edge of the
      chute, then dodged around the chute himself, looking back and
      giggling as he saw Draco firing and also hitting Crabbe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's main apprehension before this battle had been facing
      Gregory Goyle, broom superman. He'd actually kind of been hoping
      for a chance to fight one-on-one with Draco. He gained altitude and
      waited for the parachute to drop into the trees, knowing Draco
      could currently see where he was and wanting a relatively fair
      fight. Then he saw saw Lavender caught between Gregory and Susan
      and quickly thought about where he was needed more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment, he heard Ron yell "Malfoy!" and raced off to try
      to reach Lavender. It looked like Justin would get there first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron and Draco charge directly at each other, deviating only to
      dodge. neither willing to turn away and end up in the defensive
      position. Finally, Draco scored a direct hit, but was confused to
      see Ron smiling broadly. He looked down and saw he had been hit as
      well. Ron apparently noticed at the same time because they
      simultaneous yelled "Dammit" and "Bloody hell" as they made
      synchronized turns away from each other and flew toward opposite
      ends of the forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory watched Draco fly off for only a second before making
      his decision. Several times now, soldiers he had personally been
      leading had been caught by Sunshine tricks, and he was starting to
      take it personally. He may have also been somewhat jealous that
      Lavender had had the chance to defeat half their army basically
      single-wandedly. But the opportunity to take on the whole rest of
      that army alone was just a happy coincidence. "Justin", he called,
      "go after her", as he fired a shot at Susan, who turned and
      retreated, yet again. After taking a moment to eliminate Lavender,
      he accelerated out and took a position 30 meters to Justin's right.
      When Susan dropped through the canopy, Gregory dropped to just over
      the ground, cut left, and slowly approached the Sunshine ground
      force, watching for red flashes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he saw then, arranged in a half circle, concentrating fire
      on Justin, who was dodging and hopelessly trying to escape. Gregory
      adjusted course to approach them from behind. It may have all been
      in his head, but pretending to allow his annoyance to help power
      the spell seemed to allow him to cast somnium more frequently than
      he ever had before. Four Sunnies were asleep before they located
      him, including Hermione, Blaise, and Anthony. He easily dodged
      around a few trees while stunning the next four. He quickly counted
      in his head and determined that Susan was the last of them left.
      She had gotten off of her broom for some reason after they had shot
      Justin, and was now desperately rushing to get airborne again.
      Gregory let out a low growl and paused for a second, timing his
      final somnium for just before Susan's feet left the ground. As a
      result, she launched about six feet into the air before arcing back
      down and crumpling onto the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rushed toward Terry, who was close behind Seamus, but he
      was too far away. He watched Seamus invert and loop downward in a
      split-S. He could have gotten a few good shots at Terry halfway
      through the turn, but due to a combination of his current skill and
      the g-forces he was pulling, he couldn't lift his wand hand from
      the broom. Terry easily angled down and eliminated him seconds
      before Harry got within range.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After lighting up Terry Boot, Harry pulled up and scanned the
      area. Everyone else seemed to be off the field, or at least glowing
      and landing. Except... movement to his left. He dodged a pair of
      red bolts of light, "Crap. Goyle.", he thought. "I should've known
      he'd still be around. And of course I'm out of tricks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry accelerated and dove into the trees, weaving around
      branches and blindly firing backwards. He couldn't turn around, but
      knew Gregory was still close, based on how narrowly the incoming
      shots were missing. Harry didn't dare slow down or turn enough to
      let him catch up further. Gregory had already seen the full range
      of combat maneuvers; Chaotic soldiers had put them to good use
      evading him as long as they had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast wingardium leviosa on a small tree branch, recently
      fallen enough to still be covered in leaves, and brought it behind
      him as a shield, risking a quick glance backward. He saw Gregory
      20m behind him, already landing two hits on the branch. Precious
      seconds ticked by as Harry ran through the list of spells he'd read
      about as quickly as he could, looking for something he could use.
      He was constrained to spells that were safe and was explicitly
      disallowed to cast anything other than luminos on Gregory or his
      broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had one viable idea: cast ventus to blow leaves and dirt up
      and behind him. It wasn't great but it was the only feasible action
      he could think of. It wasn't technically casting magic on anyone,
      and was much less dangerous than what they were already doing. He
      carefully studied the rapidly approaching section of forest ahead
      of him, knowing he would only get a fraction of a second from this
      distraction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He saw a tree with an especially wide trunk and approached it
      while continuing to weave. Four seconds out, he cast ventus,
      blowing debris at Gregory. Two seconds out, he cast a sticking
      charm between his left hand and the broom, the spell he'd learned
      earlier that week to keep his glasses from falling off during
      high-g maneuvers. He reached the tree trunk, pulled into a climb,
      and barrel-rolled around the trunk, placing himself opposite
      Gregory, who he briefly saw dropping his wand hand from where he'd
      raised it to shield his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shot into open sky and looking backwards, targeted the
      area next to the large tree where Gregory should be visible any
      millisecond. A shadow appeared at the treeline, Harry called
      "Luminosluminosluminosluminos...".</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">T 30 minutes</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry awoke some time later. The first thing he noticed was that
      his left shoulder hurt. Opening his eyes, the second thing he
      noticed was that he was over ten meters above the canopy, hanging
      from his broom. The third thing he noticed was that his wand did
      not seem to be present.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was confused; if everyone else was out, the battle should
      be over and someone should be helping him get down. If any enemies
      were left, he was an easy target and should have been taken out and
      someone should be helping him get down. He decided he could figure
      out what was going on and yell at people later; first he had to get
      control of the broom. He muttered, "note to self: learn wandless
      magic ASAP. Also, in the mean time, affix wand to some kind of
      bungee."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His first few attempts to reach up and grab the broom with his
      right hand failed, and if his left arm had ever had the strength to
      do a one-armed pull-up, it certainly didn't at the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After thinking for a moment, Harry started to swing himself from
      side to side, eventually raising his right arm high enough to grab
      the broom. This caused the broom to shoot forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By shifting his weight carefully, Harry gained enough control
      over the broom to slow and lose altitude. His feet caught a tree
      trunk and he quasi-rappelled down. After his feet touched the
      ground, and he was able to get seated correctly on top of the
      broom. He flew slowly back toward the large tree, spotting his wand
      surprisingly quickly, although, now that he thought about it,
      straight, polished pieces of wood were very uncommon in this
      forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After recovering the wand, Harry cast <em class="calibre7">finite incantatem</em>
      on his left hand, and finally released the broom. He winced as the
      pins-and-needles feeling reached his brain, and, exhausted, decided
      to lay on the ground and take a nap before returning to the
      castle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as he closed his eyes, he heard cheering. Re-opening his
      eyes, he saw Chaos Legion on their brooms descending to the ground
      around him. Without moving he asked, "what took you guys so bloody
      long?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville answered, "Professor Quirrell said an army couldn't win
      unless at least one soldier was conscious and holding a wand. We
      decided to wait for you to recover and see if you could get down on
      your own rather than accepting a tie."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. That sounds like Quirrell. You made the right choice... So
      I got Goyle, then? I never actually saw him get hit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You hit him a few times, actually. Including once in the face.
      He was pretty annoyed. Come on, let's get back to the castle",
      Tracy said, helping Harry back onto his feet.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry", Professor Flitwick called. "Do you have a moment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped, turned, and approached. "What is it,
      Professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The seeker for Ravenclaw's quidditch team is expected to be too
      ill to play in the next match, if not longer. After today, it looks
      like you're currently the best flier in Ravenclaw. Normally, first
      years aren't allowed on the house teams, but given the special
      circumstances involved, I think an exception can be made for a
      match or two. Are you interested?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, why aren't first years normally allowed to play?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, mainly because they're usually not good enough to compete
      with older students, but the game is also potentially dangerous.
      There are occasional injuries."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, professor, but I'm going to have to pass. I'm
      somewhat concerned by a game that's too dangerous to let 11 years
      olds play, but that wouldn't stop me if I thought it was important.
      Mostly, with everything else I have going on, I'm not sure I have
      the time to learn the game and prepare for matches. Also, from what
      I've learned about quidditch, it doesn't seem like a very
      well-designed game. I don't really see the attraction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick chuckled. "Between you and me, I think that's the smart
      decision. I don't get quidditch either, but it's a tradition at
      Hogwarts, and as a Head of House, it's part of my job to recruit
      for it. It's not a coincidence that Ravenclaw doesn't win at
      quidditch very often."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
