<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>40. Dennis and the Academy - Dennis and the Academy Chapter 10: The Proliferation of Clubs, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="40. Dennis and the Academy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: The Proliferation of Clubs</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Things changed after Luna left Chaos Club. Neville apologized to
      Luna and Ginny, of course, but it was a long time before Ginny
      calmed down enough to come back, and Fred also stopped showing up
      as regularly. George still attended meetings, but didn't seem to
      have as much fun as before. Abbott and a few others also stopped
      coming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Things changed outside of Chaos Club, too. It wasn't long
      afterward that Granger started her own group. I guess that Luna's
      remarks had gotten her thinking about whether there might be more
      to understanding the world than the Muggle Science, Hogwarts
      classes, and the books of the Hogwarts Library, because her club
      was supposed to focus on Wizarding traditions around the world, as
      well as Muggle history, anthropology, philosophy, and art. She came
      over to where Ginny, Luna, and I were eating one day and said that
      she, Greengrass, Bones, and Draco would be holding a gathering that
      weekend, and invited Luna to join. She said that Ginny and I could
      come too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny and Luna ended up going. I didn't, though I'm not exactly
      sure why. I guess I've never really felt comfortable around Granger
      or Greengrass. Maybe it's because of that first day on the Hogwarts
      Express. I don't know. Granger seems nice enough, but Greengrass
      always seems cold to me. And Bones always seems too serious, which
      I guess doesn't help. I guess I'm also a little shy about Granger's
      celebrity status. I never felt that way about Harry, though. I
      guess maybe because he always actively reaches out, wants to get
      other people excited about science and so on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I think I mostly understood what Granger was thinking, though.
      When Granger asked that question about why Luna kept saying Draco
      should know better, I completely understood why. We needed more
      information, and I'd meant to ask Luna herself the question when I
      saw her next. The conversation that followed was interesting too,
      even if it uncovered more tensions within Chaos Club.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco said he guessed that she was referring to various
      traditions kept and stories told in the old families. Most of the
      stories, he said, dealt with the dire consequences for Wizard
      children who took magic for granted. These traditions sometimes
      hinted that magic was a conscious entity that must be appeased, and
      generally talked about some variant on the concept of respect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred said that he was aware of no such traditions, and
      Greengrass muttered, "That would be Dumbledore's influence. Crazy
      old man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred got angry at that, asking what Greengrass was implying
      about his family, but George again responded more calmly, "Fred,
      you know perfectly well that our father was as taken in by
      Dumbledore's charm as anyone," but then he went on, "Actually, in
      this case I wonder whether Dumbledore might not have been onto
      something if he was discouraging Wizarding households from
      propagating old fairytales. All of this sounds like superstition to
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco agreed that a lot of the traditions probably
      <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">were</em></em> superstition, adding that his own father was
      beginning to phase out some of the rituals. Bones and Anthony
      Goldstein nodded to this, while Greengrass shook her head. Granger
      said she was sceptical as well, but added, "I don't think we should
      ignore what Luna says, though. Scepticism means questioning
      cultural assumptions, but we shouldn't automatically assume that
      old traditions are wrong, either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be careful, Hermione," said Draco, "Remember that the tales
      about blood purity are another old tradition..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Granger had a response ready, "You're making an inappropriate
      generalization, Draco. Just because some old traditions are
      incorrect does not imply that they all are, and in this case I
      don't see that there's any tangible harm being done by assuming
      that traditions might have been formed for a reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's think about this systematically," said Harry, "We can
      approach it the same way we looked at the blood purity question.
      It's a good exercise in hypothesis development. What are some ideas
      of what might really be going on? Let's all take a moment to think
      about it, then break into groups and generate lists. Later we can
      compile a list for the room and figure out which ideas are
      testable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This idea was familiar territory for us all by now, but as I
      turned to Anthony to see if he wanted to do some hypothesis
      brainstorming with me, Granger said darkly, to the room in general,
      "The thing is, I'm not certain we should be using science to
      investigate this at all. There's so much we don't know..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one had a reply to that, though, and of course it didn't stop
      us from brainstorming a list of ideas. There are lots of
      possibilities when you stop to think about it: maybe the traditions
      were completely made up, maybe they were partially true, or used to
      be true but had been distorted over the years, maybe the associated
      folklore itself contained testable hypotheses, and so on. There
      were all kinds of questions that came up too, such as did magic
      work differently for families that followed the traditions, and
      what could we learn from the changes occurring in the Malfoy
      household?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Granger didn't seem as talkative as usual, though. Maybe that
      was when she started thinking about starting a group of her
      own.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Granger wasn't the only one who started a new club around that
      time. Everybody was talking about the partial breakup of Chaos
      Club, and when word got out that Granger now had another club of
      her own, Hogwarts students seemed to suddenly realize that Harry
      wasn't the only one who could start clubs. Soon there was a chess
      club (Wizard and Muggle), a debate club, a Magical Artifact
      Development club, a Muggle athletics club (no wands or broomsticks
      allowed), and various academic clubs for studying Hogwarts
      subjects. Tracy Davis, who I'd met once or twice through Chaos
      Club, posted a bunch of flyers around promoting "A Club for the
      Study of Darkest Arts and Necromancy: Learn from the Dark Princess
      of Hogwarts," but I never met anybody who admitted to attending any
      meetings. On the other hand, Hannah Abbott started a junior healers
      club, which I hear is pretty popular despite being scheduled in the
      same time block as Chaos Club.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I hadn't really planned on getting involved with any other clubs
      or organizations, but then one day after Flying lessons, when I
      came down I saw that an older student was waiting next to Madam
      Hooch. He was dark-skinned and had dreadlocks, was muscular and
      very handsome. I remembered thinking that he was just as beautiful
      as Draco, but dark instead of pale. I had no idea that he was
      waiting for me, but as we filed past Madam Hooch he stepped
      forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're Colin Creevey?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I jumped, fumbled with my broomstick, but then nodded. Older
      students mostly ignore first years, at least outside of clubs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grinned, "Sorry to startled you. I'm Lee Jordan, Fred and
      George Weasley suggested I talk to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All I could say was, "Erm?" although I did relax a little bit.
      Despite their reputation as troublemakers, Fred and George were
      always friendly with me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, here's the thing," he went on, "Cedric Diggory and I
      decided that Hogwarts needs a newspaper. We were thinking maybe
      <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">The Hogwarts Weekly</em></em> or something like that. The
      Sorting Hat said you should go into journalism?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh!" suddenly the conversation made more sense, "Er, yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't have a photographer. Fred pointed out that you have a
      camera, so we were wondering. How would you like to take
      photographs for the school newspaper?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, couldn't say no to that, now could I? No one (other than
      Mum, of course, and Dennis when my photographs started moving that
      one day) had ever acted as though my interest in photography was
      anything other than a waste of time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So that's how I became the photographer for the Hogwarts Weekly.
      One of my Chaos Club photographs of Harry was on the front page of
      the first issue, for an article Cedric Diggory had written on the
      proliferation of clubs at Hogwarts. I was pretty proud of that.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's notes:</strong> Chapter 11 should be out on or
      before July 1, 2014.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
