<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>40. Dennis and the Academy - Dennis and the Academy Chapter 11: Homecomings, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="40. Dennis and the Academy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Homecomings</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The Christmas holidays came before I knew it, and as I exited
      Platform 9 3/4 I was warmly greeted by the whole family. I felt
      like a hero returning from a great adventure!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Over the holidays, my parents and Dennis asked all sorts of
      questions: what was Wizard school was like, why we did we need a
      cauldron, what my favourite classes were, and so on. They were
      quite impressed when I told them about Flying lessons, and Dennis
      wanted to know whether I could fly on any old broom. He was
      disappointed to hear that only magical broomsticks could fly, and
      was even more disappointed when I explained that we weren't
      actually allowed to use any magic at all outside of school.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked sad about that for a moment, and then frowned, "But
      what about those moving photographs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So I did my best to explain about accidental magic. And then I
      realized that even though I couldn't do magic, I could still show
      my family some magical objects. I only had one magical item with me
      other than my wand, though, and I went to fetch the first issue of
      the <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">Hogwarts Weekly</em></em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mum just about bawled when she saw my name, in print, next to
      the word "photographer." Dennis looked at the cover photo for a
      bit, and then demanded to know who Harry was and why he was so
      important. Meanwhile, Dad was very interested read about what kinds
      of clubs magical students would start.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Questions like these continued throughout the holiday, and I
      never ran out of things to talk about: the Great Hall with its
      magical ceiling, the House Elves, the Lake, the Whomping Willow,
      the talking paintings, and the famous tension between Harry and
      Granger. I even told them about Science class.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When the holidays ended, I came back to Hogwarts more excited
      than ever, and the Spring term seemed to fly by. Classes,
      photography, arguing with Lee and Cedric about the layout for the
      school newspaper, and of course, Chaos Club.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Over the Spring term, Chaos Club lost a few more students but
      eventually seemed to stabilize. We continued meeting to work on
      exercises to help think more rationally, as well as doing a few
      more experiments, although Granger became an almost perpetual voice
      of caution whenever magical experiments were proposed. I think
      Harry would have preferred to move ahead with less argument, but I
      also slowly realized that he had a ton of respect for Granger, even
      when they disagreed (which was usually).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, Draco seemed to have some sort of crush on Granger, often
      taking her side even when it seemed he didn't actually understand
      her arguments. Harry always got annoyed when that happened, and
      Neville and Padma would roll their eyes and snicker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was so much to do, but as the term finally drew to a
      close, I found I was quite excited to get home again, too. I would
      have a lot to tell, I knew, and really was looking forward to the
      sort of welcome I'd gotten at Christmas. I just knew my family
      would be so excited to hear more about Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I took the long ride to London on the Hogwarts Express, so
      excited to tell everybody about the Spring term, but it turned out
      that only Dad was there to pick me up. He'd muttered something
      about Mum having taken Dennis to the library before driving me
      home. And while he seemed happy enough to see me, he didn't ask
      many questions about Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">Well</em></em>, I thought, perhaps Mum and Dennis will
      be more interested when they get home. Anyhow, I was tired, and
      headed straight for my bed. But then...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Colin, you scream like a girl!" Barely home, and there was
      Dennis, framed in the doorway to our bedroom, laughing like a
      maniac.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was I going to say to that? What <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">could</em></em> I
      say to that? <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">You'd scream too if</em></em> <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">you came
      home and the first thing you saw was a bloody huge</em></em>
      <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">snake coiled up on your pillow.</em></em> That's what I
      wanted to say, but this was Dennis. Little wanker. He'd be
      delighted if something like that happened. Of course he would. God,
      but I miss him, though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thing was, though, that since Christmas, while I'd been
      keeping busy at Hogwarts, things had been happening at home, too. I
      guess I'd forgotten that life would go on for my family even when I
      wasn't there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now there was a snake on my bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stood with my back pressed against the wall opposite the foot
      of my bed. I'd barely stepped into the room when I spotted the
      snake on my pillow and jumped back, almost losing balance as I
      collided with the wall. I guess I did yell a bit, but I certainly
      hadn't screamed, no matter what Dennis said. I did have a weird
      tight feeling in my throat, though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dennis must have just got home from the library and had hurried
      into the room when he heard. Clearly, he thought the whole thing
      was hilarious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dennis," I finally managed to croak out, "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The little git just laughed again, then calmly walked over to my
      bed and picked up the snake. It suddenly didn't look as big as I'd
      thought at first. Only a little longer than Dennis's forearm, I
      realized as it coiled around his hand. As he stretched out on his
      own bed, he spoke softly to the animal and actually stroked it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I managed to relax a bit, and Dennis glanced up at me, a smug
      little smile playing at one corner of his mouth, "See, it's safe
      now," then went on "Nate wouldn't hurt you anyway. She's only a
      grass snake. But crikey did you yelp."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I edged over to my bed, keeping as far from Dennis's side of the
      room as I could, then lay down. I wasn't too pleased with putting
      my head where that slimy beast had been, but it was my bed, darn
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As I calmed down, Dennis lay with the snake curled on his chest,
      and told me about how he'd gotten her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's from one of the hedges near Grandma's place in the
      country. I couldn't just leave her there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dennis, I thought Mum said you shouldn't disturb the creatures
      that live there. 'They're happiest where they are.' That's what she
      says every time we're down there." I still wasn't happy about the
      snake, especially having her on my bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dennis answered right away, though, "Not any more, though, are
      they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That made me sit up. I swung my legs off the edge of my bed and
      turned to watch Dennis carefully, "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dennis looked up in surprise and the dull brown grass snake
      lifted her head as well. "Blimey," said Dennis, "I guess you
      haven't heard." He looked at me carefully, then continued, "They're
      going to bulldoze all those hedgerows at the manor. The new owner
      wants to put in a big modern farm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was a surprise, and not a good one either. I closed my eyes
      tightly, and images filled my mind. Photographing the fields and
      hedges from on top of the big rock by the lane. Climbing the big
      apple tree while Dennis belly-crawled on the ground near the
      hedges. Walking with Mum and Grandma.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Those hedgerows were hundreds of years old I knew, with all
      kinds of birds and things nesting in them. Mum and Grandma both
      loved those fields and hedges like anything. And I'd taken some of
      my favourite photographs on the manor grounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I couldn't believe it. But I was also confused, "I thought the
      landowner promised never to take those hedges down. Didn't
      Grandma's group from the town convince him that they were too
      important to the landscape? I thought he agreed that the manor
      grounds were worth more left as they are!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Dennis, "I guess he did. But all that is changed
      now. Something about the new treaty that Prime Minister Major and
      President Gore put together at that big meeting in Japan. The one
      about global warming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The what now?" I'd heard of global warming. Anthony had told
      everyone in Chaos Club all about it when he was doing a
      presentation on solar energy and how magic might improve how solar
      panels work. Global warming sounded really scary, and I was glad
      that soon the solar panel designers would have help from the
      Wizarding community. But Anthony hadn't said anything about any
      meeting in Japan. We don't talk much about political things in
      Chaos Club.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think the treaty is called the Kyoto Agreement or something.
      It's supposed to stop global warming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does this have to do with the manor, though?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dennis paused, seemed to be trying to remember, then continued
      slowly, "Well, the climate stuff is mostly about not burning oil
      and coal and things. But they say some of it is also because they
      keep cutting down trees, especially rainforests in places like
      Indonesia and Brazil. The Kyoto Agreement says that countries like
      England and Europe and America have to burn less coal, but it also
      says that we have to help other countries protect their
      rainforests. So they made some kind of system where you can buy and
      sell permission to burn fuel or cut down trees, so... well... see,
      the manor owner says that it won't cost him much to cut down the
      hedges and woods on the grounds, and that he's best off using his
      land to make money if he also spends some money to protect
      rainforest in Indonesia."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dennis looked sad, and I knew just how he felt. The grounds were
      so beautiful, and I loved thinking about how they'd been like that
      practically for ever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But I felt torn, too. Global warming was really scary, and even
      Dennis had always talked about how important it was not to cut down
      the jungles in Indonesia because orangutans needed somewhere to
      live. I felt sad about the hedgerows, but I also realized that I
      wasn't thinking rationally at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I quietly wished I could talk things over with Harry and
      Anthony, or maybe Draco.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's notes:</strong> Chapter 12 should be out on or
      before August 1, 2014.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
