<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>40. Dennis and the Academy - Dennis and the Academy Chapter 1: Photography, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="40. Dennis and the Academy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Photography</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I guess it's not that unusual for Muggleborns at Hogwarts to
      have had a hard time fitting in back when they were attending
      Muggle primary schools. I, for instance, was really never as sporty
      as most of the other boys at my school. I was never good at playing
      rounders, and really didn't enjoy it very much, and the other kids
      – boys mostly, but some of the girls too – made fun of me for the
      fact that I preferred to mess around with the camera my parents had
      given me. My mother told me that she never really fit in either,
      and that if I was just patient that things would get better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patient. She had no idea. I guess she probably thought that as
      my classmates and I grew up, the differences wouldn't be so
      important. Well, that and the fact that she was also quite certain
      that I was gifted in the visual arts and that someday what she saw
      as my immense talents for photography would get the recognition
      they deserved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Did she imagine for one moment that the photos I took would come
      alive when they were developed? How could she? Personally, I was
      terrified when I found out. I still remember the shock I felt the
      day I took out the photographs I'd taken at my school's May Day
      celebration and saw that some of them (only some of them) moved. I
      was sure I was going crazy, and in my panic, I quickly stashed the
      moving photos in the shoebox I keep under my bed. When she called
      me over to show her the beautiful pictures I'd taken, I only showed
      her the ordinary ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She exclaimed how talented I was, as she always does, but I
      almost lost my lunch when she said, "Look how you've captured the
      movement of the maypole dance!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'm sure I mumbled something like "Er, what?" as I hurried over
      to take a look, but the photo she was holding looked normal, and
      she just went on as she normally did. Then a moment later she
      happened to look up at me, and her face transformed with sudden
      concern. She said I looked pale as a ghost, and was I feeling ill.
      I don't really remember exactly what happened after that, except
      feeling vaguely confused as she herded me off to bed. I think she
      brought me some tea and dry toast a bit later, but of course I
      wasn't so much ill as scared. When she came back later she said
      that I had certainly eaten quickly, that since I looked a lot
      better, I'd best come down to dinner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I actually managed to convince myself that I'd only been
      imagining the thing with the moving photographs, and promised
      myself I wouldn't think about it any more. I almost managed to
      forget about the photographs under my bed until a few months later,
      when I happened to look over the batch I'd taken on the family
      holiday in Venice. I flipped through comfortingly static shots of
      the gondaliers steering their boats, and the merchants selling
      colourful masks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then I dropped the stack in alarm as I flipped one over to
      reveal a lively flock of pigeons descending into a piaza, devouring
      scattered bread crumbs, and then shifting to hungrily crowd around
      a gaudily dressed American tourist who wasn't emptying his bag of
      crumbs quickly enough to satisfy the flock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dennis came in just then, and I hurriedly shoved the remainder
      of the photos into the shoebox, before gathering up the "safe"
      pictures I'd already looked at to show to Mum who I knew would be
      waiting downstairs. I didn't escape without rousing his suspicion,
      though. Little brothers have a way of making life difficult. They
      always come in at awkward moments, and never know when to leave
      well enough alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing?" he wanted to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's in that box? Is it alive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dennis was always obsessed with insects, birds, and animals. I
      happened to know that he had a pet tarantula he kept hidden in a
      box in the back of our closet. The tarantula's name was Rose, and
      if Mum had known he had her, she would have thrown a fit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sometimes when Dennis thought he was alone he used to take Rose
      out of the cage-box she came in and talk to her by name. He said
      that she could understand him, and that she always let him know
      when she was hungry for crickets. Not knowing about magic at the
      time, I of course thought this was extremely childish, and a little
      daft. Maybe I should have wondered a bit after the weird photos
      that had developed from my camera, but at the time I was still sure
      that all that was in my head. Well, almost sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just my stuff, and it's not your business. How's
      Rose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dennis looked defensively at the closet, and I knew that as soon
      as I left the room he'd hurry over to check on the spider. So I
      took my time. I got up, headed for the door, then casually ambled
      back to the nightstand to get the little pile of safe photos from
      Venice, dawdled a little bit as if perusing our bookshelf, and then
      wandered downstairs. I could hear Dennis scrambling for the closet
      after I left, and smiled a little.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I found Mum reading at the kitchen table, and sat down next to
      her. When she looked up, I said, "Here are the best photographs
      from Venice, Mum. I know you wanted to see them," and handed her
      what I had. She smiled and put down her book to take a look. With a
      little bit of embarrassment I listened as she cooed over each one
      in turn. "Look at the colour!", "Beautiful composition in this shot
      from the mask shop!", and so on. She said that I was talented
      beyond my years and that I should find a way to show these in a
      gallery somewhere. I mostly shrugged these remarks off.
      Appreciation is great and all, but she's my mum, and I don't even
      know what she means by "composition." I just took the snapshots
      that I thought would look nice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she'd finished showering praise and insisted on putting a
      couple of them into the family album, I took the remainder
      upstairs. I walked quietly, working to time things so that I could
      walk in on Dennis playing with his tarantula and make him feel
      uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I walked in to find him sitting on my bed. He knows I don't like
      it when he does that, but I barely noticed where he was sitting,
      once I took in what he was doing. My shoebox was open on the bed
      next to him, and he was holding the thick stack of photographs and
      gaping at the pigeon picture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is bloody brilliant!" he said, and then added "Rose thinks
      so too. How did you do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care what bloody Rose thinks," I told him, "You stay
      out of my stuff, and keep that tarantula off of my bed, or I'll
      tell Mum!" I added the last part as he guiltily got up from my bed,
      setting the photographs aside, and turned to pick up Rose who had
      been sitting on the bed next to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shuffled over to his own bed, and then sat there holding
      Rose, and asked again, "How did you do it? You're always fussing
      with that camera, but I've never heard of anybody taking
      photographs that could move!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment, I went over to my bed, carefully brushed off the
      area where the spider had been sitting, and threw myself down on my
      bed. I was furious, but I guess I was also relieved: I wasn't
      insane. Dennis could see the pictures move too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another minute later, he asked again, "How did you do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," I said. I really had no idea. "It just happened.
      I honestly thought I'd gone daft." And then I realized how relieved
      I really felt. "Do you have any ideas?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I didn't know whether to be annoyed or what, when he first
      shrugged, and then looked at the spider as if he thought maybe
      she'd have something to add. Then he just shrugged again, and said,
      "Not really. Have you showed these to Mum and Dad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was really good to have somebody to talk to, and we debated
      for a while about the wisdom of showing something this weird to our
      parents. In the end I decided to put it off until the next morning,
      and to try to figure out the right way to bring it up, and maybe
      show one of the May Day photos to Dad tomorrow. The several moving
      pictures of the maypole dance somehow seemed less startling than
      the pigeon picture. I don't know why. Probably something about the
      cyclic movement of the children holding the coloured ribbons. There
      was just so much going on in the pigeon picture. People wandering
      in and out of the frame, and interacting differently with the
      pigeons all the time. The maypole picture was just more believable.
      I almost felt like I'd seen something similar in a travelling
      hologram exhibit we saw one time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, I planned: I'd show the photo to Dad, and ask if he'd ever
      seen anything like it. I wouldn't say I'd taken it, and he probably
      wouldn't notice that it was the pole from our own school's fair.
      Maybe he would have an explanation.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's notes:</strong> The next chapter should be
      published on or before January 15, 2014.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
