<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>40. Dennis and the Academy - Dennis and the Academy Chapter 3: Fixus Everythingus, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="40. Dennis and the Academy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Fixus Everythingus</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">So that was the first introduction that my brother and I ever
      had to the world of magic. It was two years from that summer to the
      day that Dennis received his own letter. Back when my letter
      arrived, none of us had any idea that he was a wizard as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the day I received my letter, Dennis was of course very
      interested in everything that happened when Professor Flitwick
      returned and demonstrated a fascinating selection of simple spells
      (with particular emphasis on Charms of course). And of course
      Dennis was also extremely disappointed that he wouldn't get to come
      along when Flitwick took me on my first shopping trip in Diagon
      Alley the following week. The whole family did come along on the
      trip to London, though, and he was somewhat placated when Mum and
      Dad announced that while Flitwick took me shopping, they would be
      taking him to the London Zoo. And later on I gave him a hefty stack
      of moving photographs from the shopping trip. He was absolutely
      beside himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I didn't see Dennis much over the year that followed, though at
      some point it did occur to me to wonder about his relationship with
      that spider of his, and whether he might be a wizard as well.
      Mostly, though, I was preoccupied with learning the ropes at
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'm not quite sure how much I should write about my own Hogwarts
      experiences before Dennis joined me. I suppose I'm going to have to
      write a bit about them just to provide context. If you're a Muggle,
      you might be imagining that life at Hogwarts would be radically
      different from your everyday existence, and if you talk to some of
      the older Muggleborn students, that's probably exactly what they'd
      say. But that was before Harry Potter-Evans-Verres arrived and,
      with the help of the then Defense professor, turned everything
      upside-down. Or right-side-up, really. I guess it sort of depends
      on your perspective.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anyway, when I finally boarded the Hogwarts Express, I ended up
      sitting with a bunch of the Weasley kids. Ginny Weasley is in my
      year, and Mrs. Weasley helped me out with the whole Platform 9 3/4
      thing, so it seemed natural enough to sit with them. When George
      Weasley sat down across from Ron, Ginny, and me, he immediately
      picked up the shiny new copy of <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">Introductory
      Physics</em></em> from the top of his stack of very old and ratty
      looking leatherbound textbooks on far more interesting-looking
      topics, flipped through it, and shook his head in frustration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I don't think I'll ever forgive him for this," Fred said,
      looking over at the book in his twin's lap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I always said there was something wrong with him," Ron
      muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George closed the book, but continued to hold it in his lap.
      "Easy now," he said, "Look, he did save her, didn't he? Still... I
      think these textbooks are actually more expensive than new
      Transfiguration books would be. The whole thing is mad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a pause, he went on, "Really, though, we don't
      <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">know</em></em> that the new books are because of
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come off it," said Ron, "What other explanation is
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I thought I could mostly follow the conversation, though I
      wasn't sure, and I wouldn't have felt comfortable interrupting the
      older boys to ask what I was sure would be stupid questions. Given
      the brand new book in each stack, though, it was pretty clear that
      science was new to the Hogwarts curriculum. As Ron and his brothers
      got deeper into their argument about Harry, the new textbooks, and
      whether the twins were going to bother staying at Hogwarts for
      another year if they kept having to buy new books, I eventually
      leaned close to Ginny and asked about the one thing I was sure I
      didn't know anything about, "Saved who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione Granger," she whispered back, "Fred and George are
      sensitive about it because they didn't get to her before she died.
      Harry Potter and last year's Defense professor brought her back, so
      it's hard for them to stay mad. They're still furious about the
      number of galleons we had to put down this year for books, though.
      Me, I'm really glad that first years don't have any new classes
      other than Basic Arithmancy. That used to be an upper level
      elective, you know, so I can use Percy's old book. And Fred and
      George are sharing new books. Plus next year I can use hand-me
      downs from Ron. So it'll only be a few years of extra expenses for
      the family. I'm sure we'll get by." She bit her lip, and I got the
      feeling we were in sensitive territory, so I tried to steer the
      subject away from textbook prices.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said that this Harry person brought back, uh... what was
      her name again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione Granger. She'll be a second year now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, so Harry brought Hermione back from the dead. Is that a
      thing we can do? As witches and wizards I mean? Is it something
      we'll learn at Hogwarts, like?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shook her head, "It's only been done that one time. No one
      is quite sure how it worked, either. And even the most powerful
      wizards are scared to try to repeat the ritual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why's that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Strange side effects. They're still trying to figure it all
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm... so how did she, erm... how did Hermione die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To my great surprise, when I posed this question, Ginny gave a
      strange little smile and she said, "Speaking of side effects..."
      Her eyes shone with mischief as she looked over at her big brothers
      and said sweetly, "So, George, have you managed to remember how
      exactly Granger died yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both twins looked over angrily, evidently to the annoyance of
      Ron who looked as though he'd been about to say something
      dreadfully witty about Harry and the textbooks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">not</em></em> start this up again," said Fred.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This shite isn't funny Ginny," said George, "You weren't
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have no idea what it was like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wait 'til you see one of your schoolmates burned to a crisp
      by dragonfire," George continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">Or</em></em> kissed by a dementor," Fred went on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins looked at each other with a sort of resigned
      confusion, then sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In any case," said George, "You don't know what it was like. It
      was bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Evidently you don't know what it was like either, since you
      can't seem to agree on what happened," said Ginny softly, but I had
      the impression she was mostly saying it for my benefit, and that
      the Weasleys had been over this conversation many times before.
      "The really funny part is, I distinctly remember that when they got
      home from Hogwarts last summer Fred and George were both talking
      about how horrible it was seeing Hermione's head bitten off by a
      cave troll. All of this was before Fixus Everythingus, of
      course..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fixus Everythingus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron explained quietly, "That's what everyone is calling the
      ritual that Harry and Professor Quirrel performed last summer.
      Everybody's memory has been mucked with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"David Monroe," said Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"David Monroe," Ginny repeated, "Quirinus Quirrel was just his
      pseudonym, remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron grumbled something like, "Quirrel, Monroe, name doesn't
      matter, the man's a creep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So the ritual messed with the memories of everybody who was
      there?" I asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, no," said George, "Best as we can tell,
      <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">everybody's</em></em> memories were affected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't noticed anything weird," I said, cautiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hrm, you know, I haven't heard anything about Muggle Britain
      being affected," said Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of the others had either, evidently. So I let the question
      sit. That conversation was the first time I heard about the Ritual
      of Fixus Everythingus. It was far from the last. In fact, it was
      pretty much the only thing Hogwarts students talked about during my
      first year. There are all kinds of stories about exactly what
      happened in the spring and summer before I started at Hogwarts, but
      most of them are variations on what I heard from the Weasleys that
      first day on the train. The basic story goes something like
      this...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Basically, it's clear that some very strange things happened in
      the spring of 1992, all centered around a magic-intensive ritual
      performed by Harry and the professor of Defense Against the Dark
      Arts. There evidently used to be a kind of superstition around the
      position of Defense professor, so when things started to get weird,
      I guess nobody was surprised that he was involved. Given what I've
      heard about the activities of previous Defense professors, though,
      I guess the whole thing was probably a pretty big relief to most
      people. In fact, I guess a lot of people would say that it was
      (literally!) the best thing that could have happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Magical Britain certainly was happy enough to elect David Monroe
      as Minister of Magic after the dust settled, so they seemed ready
      enough to forgive what he and Harry did. He's a very popular
      Minister, too. Handsome, charming, well-spoken, and most people
      celebrate what they call his no-nonsense approach to everything.
      There are only a few people like Ron who still think there's
      something wrong with Monroe. In his collaborations with the Lucius
      Malfoy, who is currently acting as Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot,
      Minister Monroe seems to have done wonders to increase
      Muggle-awareness among witches and wizards, if not universal
      Muggle-tolerance. Well, maybe some of those changes had to do with
      the ritual as well. There are reasons why everyone refers to it as
      "The Ritual of Fixus Everythingus." It didn't fix everything,
      obviously, but a lot of things are a lot better. Wizard-Muggle
      relations is one of them. Hermione later told me that the Muggle
      phobia she had to deal with when she first arrived was something
      horrible. I definitely didn't encounter any of that when I got
      here, and I'm not sure how much of that could be explained by the
      Minister alone. Nor am I at all sure that the Ministry would have
      had much influence over McGonnagall's decision to change the name
      of Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At any rate, there's a lot we don't know about Fixus
      Everythingus. It does seem pretty clear that the reason that Harry
      and Mr. Monroe invented this ritual in the first place was to bring
      Hermione Granger back from the dead. And in that sense, no one can
      disagree that it worked. Hermione is not only alive, but is doing
      great. I see her every week at the Chaos Club meetings, and she's
      generally the most talkative person there. On the other hand, it's
      also clear that even now she's really angry with Harry. Neville
      told me once that Harry and Hermione used to be best friends. Not
      anymore. Neither of them talks openly about it in public, but
      everybody can tell it's somehow related to the ritual. And that's
      not even touching the weird memory effects or the other strange
      stuff that's happened, some of it very disturbing. I don't really
      know what Harry was expecting from the ritual, but I'm pretty sure
      he didn't get whatever it was. Ron disagrees about this by the way.
      He hates Harry and Monroe both, and can't seem to decide that
      whether he'd prefer to assume the that the side effects were gross
      incompetence or simply what the two dark wizards intended all
      along. Ron's in the minority though. Most witches and wizards are
      happy to embrace Fixus Everythingus as a new and powerful light
      ritual, but given the side effects, it is also generally accepted
      that Fixus Everythingus is also an extremely dangerous ritual, only
      to be attempted by the most proficient wizards and witches, and
      only after thorough review by the Ministry of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What makes the ritual so hazardous? If the rumor mill is to be
      believed, even the ritual's inventors don't know the answer. Even
      the specific side effects are not well-known. Asside from the
      memory issues, it seems that some people's personalities changed as
      well, though it's even more difficult to pin down the exact changes
      than to get a consistent report of the events that occurred that
      year. That's not all, though. It was that first day on the Hogwarts
      Express that I heard the most unsettling rumor associated with
      Fixus Everythingus:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean," said Ron, "I don't see how everybody can be so certain
      that Fixus Everythingus is a light ritual. It was right afterward
      that Dumbledore took himself over to the Department of Mysteries
      and voluntarily walked through the Veil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Veil, I learned, is a mysterious artifact kept at the
      Department of Mysteries that everybody seems to agree is the
      gateway to the land of the dead, or at least that it kills you,
      anyway. In any case, nobody has crossed it and ever come back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well," Fred had responded, "Good riddance, anyway.
      Dumbledore was trouble. If it hadn't been for him, Hermione
      wouldn't have died in the first place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron couldn't let that stand, though, "No way. Dumbledore was the
      greatest wizard who ever lived. And he'd still be our Headmaster if
      it weren't for that little creep Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George just shrugged, and Ginny looked at me as if to say, "You
      see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone was quiet for a bit and then George spoke suddenly,
      "Hey, Ron, did you see the recordings of the school championship
      Quidditch match between Durmstrang and The Brazilian Wizarding
      School? What'd you think of that save by Krum?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I didn't know what Quidditch was, but I could tell where things
      were going: this was going to be a long and animated conversation
      about sport. I glanced at Ginny, hopefully, since a lot of times
      girls aren't into sport, but she was leaning in just as
      enthusiastically as Ron. I let the four of them, Ginny, Ron, and
      the twins, go on for about five minutes before I decided that I was
      correct in my suspicion that it was going to be one of
      <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">those</em></em> conversations. At that point, I quietly
      took my leave to see if I could find a quieter compartment. Maybe I
      could start reading my Charms textbook. That looked intersting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I tried to wave to everybody when I left, but they were all too
      preoccupied to respond, so I just shrugged and left.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's notes:</strong> The next chapter should be
      published on or before February 14, 2014.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
