<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>40. Dennis and the Academy - Dennis and the Academy Chapter 4: Luna, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="40. Dennis and the Academy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Luna</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The next two train compartments to where the Weasleys were
      sitting were packed with students, so there was no chance of my
      sitting there. When I opened the door to the third compartment, the
      three girls inside were talking seriously in intense whispers. I
      wasn't sure what to do, and as I stood gaping with the door opened,
      the one with the lightest colour hair, who wore wizard robes with
      green trim stood up angrily and forced the door closed in my face,
      saying something like, "Haven't you ever heard of privacy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was startled and wandered on a little shakily. I opened the
      next door much more cautiously. The compartment was nearly empty,
      but I hesitated before entering. The only person in the room was a
      blond, round-faced, nice-looking girl sitting by the widow. She
      looked over at me for a moment, and then looked back out the
      window. This wasn't the most welcoming response, but I was tired of
      checking doors, and after a moment I said, carefully, "Is... would
      it be alright if I joined you in here for a while?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that, she turned again, and this time smiled warmly, so I
      came in and closed the door behind me. She still hadn't said
      anything. We sat in slightly awkward silence for a bit before I got
      my courage up again, "My name's Colin," I said softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Luna," she said. Her voice was almost eerily calm. She had
      a chrysanthemum behind each ear and was wearing a quartz
      necklace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually I broke the silence again, "Erm, so, erm... Have you
      been to Hogwarts before?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no, I'm a first year." Still that same strange
      sleepy-tranquil voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, good. Me too." I couldn't believe how my capacity for
      normal conversation seemed to have suddenly escaped me.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I just sat there for a moment, until finally she seemed to
      realize something. Then she visibly relaxed and seemed to open up a
      bit more, "You're Muggleborn, aren't you?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm, yes, how did you...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's obvious, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm, what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, everybody in Wizarding Britain knows who I am because of
      my dad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I didn't know what to say to that, so just looked at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They all think I'm daft, don't they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because of your dad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sort of. Oh, of course I forget. There must be so much that you
      don't know!" she raised her hand to her mouth in a style I might
      have seen in an actress in a really old movie one time. Her huge
      eyes opened even wider.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm, so, your dad is somebody important, then?" I
      floundered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only the editor of a major newspaper," she reached into her
      bag, pulled out a copy of <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">The Quibbler</em></em>, and
      shoved it toward me, "Most people don't understand what Dad is
      doing, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The typesetting of the front page distinctly reminded me of
      <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">The Daily Mirror</em></em>, and the front page headline
      read, "Fixus Nothingus? Lives Ruined by Mysterious Ritual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I stared at the headline as she went on, "It doesn't help, of
      course, that Dad has a sense of humor. When I was younger I used to
      talk about my dreams a lot. I guess I said some really weird
      things, but also kind of just the sort of strange things that kids
      say sometimes, you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When I looked up from the headline and nodded uncertainly, she
      went on, "Dad would create whole satirical news stories around the
      things I said. But people didn't understand, and would make fun of
      him. And now they all think <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">I'm</em></em> bonkers, of
      course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." I said stupidly. And then because I didn't quite know what
      else to say, added, "I'm so sorry." I honestly didn't have any idea
      what I was supposed to say. The whole conversation felt strange.
      But I found myself liking Luna anyway. Most of our Hogwarts
      classmates don't think much of her, and a lot of people say that
      she looks like a frog, describe her eyes as bulging, but I never
      thought so. She is... peculiar... though.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks for coming in, by the way," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was nothing," I said, "Honestly, I'm glad to find somebody
      who seems friendly. I was sitting with the Weasleys before, do you
      know them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded her head with a tired look that seemed to say, "Who
      doesn't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...but they started going on about sport, and it's really not
      my thing, you know? And then the girls in the compartment next to
      yours shut me out..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Daphne, Susan, and Hermione," Luna cut in, "They shut
      themselves up in there as soon as the train started accepting
      passengers. Can't say I blame them. Hermione never asked to be a
      celebrity, you know. The whole thing is such sad business..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sad? But isn't Hermione..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I don't mean sad for Hermione, although of course it's hard
      for her being the first person ever to be brought back," Luna
      hurried on, "I mean for everybody else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean like the old Headmaster of Hogwarts? Dumble... um...
      chap? What was his name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore? Oh, yes, that's a nasty business too, of course.
      No, I meant for people less... directly affected. Take poor
      Professor Trelawney, for instance." She pointed to the headline in
      the newspaper she'd passed to me, so I picked up the newspaper and
      settled down to read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Next to the headline was an enormous photograph of Sybill
      Trelawney, who gazed off to the left side of the image so intently
      that it might as well not have been a moving photograph. The
      article was all about the difficult situation she was in now that
      she'd been sacked from Hogwarts. It hinted that there were others
      similarly affected but didn't give any specifics. Ms. Trelawney
      used to teach an upper level elective called Divination, I learned,
      but Hogwarts was doing away with Divination entirely, now, and
      Professor Trelawney didn't know where she'd go or what she'd
      do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When I looked up to indicate that I was finished reading, Luna
      continued, "She has the True Sight, Professor Trelawney. I know.
      I'm a little touched myself..." she trailed off briefely and then
      hurried on, "Oh, not in the way they think. I do wish Dad hadn't
      actually used my name in all of those articles. Anyway, it is most
      unfortunate that Trelawney won't be staying at Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The article says that the new Headmistress... McGonnagall, is
      it?... offered her the option to stay at Hogwarts as unofficial
      faculty." I wasn't quite sure what to think of Luna at that stage,
      but decided to keep an open mind. She certainly seemed nice
      enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's true," said Luna, "But it's hard enough for Diviners to
      find their way in the world. So many people say that Divination is
      the one branch of magic with no real basis. Prophecies are one
      thing. Everybody knows those are real. But too few wizards and
      witches fully embrace general intuition, or the fact that most
      Seers have abilities far beyond their unusual sensitivity to time
      pressure. It's a loss for us all, not having somebody like
      Professor Trelawney teaching at Hogwarts. And disrespectful, too,
      given that it was Seers like her who discovered magic in the first
      place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, did they?" I asked. I still wasn't sure what to think at
      that point. In some ways I still don't. If I'd grown up in Magical
      Britain, I probably would have dropped out of the conversation
      right there. After all, everybody knows that magic was first
      manipulated in the lost city of Atlantis... and that all Atlantian
      records have long since been lost. How could someone like Luna have
      knowledge still lost to wizarding scholars the world over? And yet,
      in other ways I'm still not sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it was, since I'd been raised by Muggles, I didn't have much
      basis for evaluating statements made by other witches and wizards,
      and while I was starting to get the impression there was something
      off about her, I also wasn't in a position to dismiss the things
      she said. Looking back, I'm thankful for that. She's been a good
      friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just at that moment, though, she glanced out the window and
      started in surprise, then said quickly, "We're almost there! You'd
      better get into your robes. I'll see you at the Feast!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's notes:</strong> The next chapter should be
      published on or before March 1, 2014.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
