<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>40. Dennis and the Academy - Dennis and the Academy Chapter 5: Arrival, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="40. Dennis and the Academy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Arrival</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">I hurried back to the compartment where I'd been sitting with
      the Weasleys to get my robes out of my luggage, and changed as
      quickly as I could. The train had already stopped by the time I was
      dressed, and the Weasleys were filing out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Halfway out the door, George called, "Hey, mate!" passing me a
      small card, the size of a business card as I scrambled to gathered
      my things, "I didn't get a chance to give you this before you ran
      off before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The card announced the first meeting of Chaos Club. I didn't
      know what that was, and tried to ask, but George just told me to be
      there, and handed me a few more cards, suggesting that I pass them
      on to other first years. Then when I told him I didn't even know
      where or when the club was going to meet he explained the card was
      under enchantment and would vibrate when the time and place
      displayed. Then he hurried off, followed by Ron who paused to roll
      his eyes and say, "I wouldn't even bother, if I were you," before
      running off to catch up with one of his classmates, leaving me
      alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was the last one off the train, and it took me a while to spot
      the other first years, all gathered around the truly enormous,
      rather disheveled, and (I remember thinking after I noticed the
      sword-like knife in his belt) absolutely terrifying man I later
      learned was Rubeus Hagrid, the Hogwarts groundskeeper. I might have
      turned and run if I hadn't seen Luna standing near him and smiling
      at my tranquilly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When I finally caught up with the group, I was relieved that Mr.
      Hagrid didn't really pay much attention to me, just turned,
      beckoned, and repeated, "This way," before silently leading us down
      to the docks. I was glad to be able to sit next to Luna as we
      sailed over black choppy water with the giant. Ginny caught up with
      me later on, as we were getting off of the boats. I introduced her
      to Luna, who turned out to only really know the Weasleys in a vague
      sort of way. I was momentarily worried as I recalled Luna saying
      that most wizards and witches think she's daft, but they shook
      hands politely, Luna daintily taking Ginny's strong hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny jumped straight into conversation, announcing she'd heard
      that there wouldn't be a Sorting Ceremony for us, and asking what
      we thought that was about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I of course had no idea what the Sorting Ceremony even was, but
      Luna had an answer, "Actually, Professor Trelawney mentioned that
      when she was at our house to be interviewed. Headmistress
      McGonnagall hopes it will reduce bullying. The new headmistress
      wants that to be part of her legacy, less bullying at Hogwarts. And
      Trelawney said that most of the fighting between Hogwarts students
      has been between houses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I remember Ginny nodded in comprehension, "That makes sense. Ron
      says that last year when Monroe's Armies were most active there was
      a lot of fighting between armies, but that up until then most of
      the fighting had been between houses." She paused, frowned
      thoughtfully for a moment, and then went on, "You know, now that I
      think about it, I think George said that Harry Potter had an
      explanation for this. Something about people how people naturally
      tend to sort themselves into groups, and to defend the group they
      identify with. I think he called it 'tribal cues' or something like
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When I interrupted to ask what the Sorting Ceremony was, Ginny
      obliged, "Traditionally, and all the traditions at Hogwarts are
      ancient, each entering class of first years would be sorted into
      one of the four Houses of Hogwarts based on personality and
      goals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So many changes this year," Luna said had said dreamily, "The
      first year Hogwarts has ever changed its curriculum. The first year
      with no Sorting. One has to wonder whether McGonnagall has
      considered the larger implications."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny smirked a little, but simply asked, "Larger
      implications?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," said Luna, "Karmically speaking the implications are
      huge, of course, but also in other ways. You cannot teach an old
      hippogriff new tricks. Or at least, not without ending up with an
      angry hippogriff. And Hogwarts is a very old hippogriff
      indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny giggled, "I like you, Luna. You're odd, but I like
      you."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Hagrid herded us through a small door in the side of the
      fortress-like structure that was Hogwarts, into a chamber dimly lit
      by torches on the walls. On the four walls of the room were four
      massive oil-paintings, each a larger-than-life portrait of a
      distinguished-looking man or woman, each accompanied by an animal
      of some sort. Like my magical photographs, the portraits seemed to
      be alive, and the subjects watched us with a sort of vague interest
      as we filed in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When we were all inside and gathered in an awkward cluster, a
      door next to each painting opened, and a man or woman silently
      entered to stand next to each painting. I was a little surprised by
      this since one of the doors was in the same wall through which we'd
      entered and I'd only seen one door on the outside. Of the people
      who entered, I recognized Professor Flitwick immediately, as he
      moved to stand next to the painting of the tall thin woman with the
      raven perched on the back of her chair. The raven in the painting
      flapped about as it inspected us with more blatant curiosity and
      rather less dignity than did the woman in the painting who peered
      at us over the top of the book she was holding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The people who entered were the Heads of House, I soon learned:
      Professor Flitwick for Ravenclaw, Professor Snape for Slytherin,
      Professor Sprout for Hufflepuff, and Professor Lupin for
      Gryffindor. With the exception of the raven, the animals in the
      portraits corresponded to the emblems of the four houses. One time
      I asked Flitwick why Rowenna Ravenclaw hadn't been painted with an
      eagle, and he sighed and stated that all the accounts confirm that
      she'd never had an interest in falconry. He's normally happy to
      answer questions, but I suppose he gets asked that one quite
      frequently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once the Heads of House were in position, the Headmistress
      herself entered through a large pair of double doors in one corner
      of the room. She welcomed us to the school briefly, and explained
      about the new sorting system:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to Hogwarts. As many of you will have inferred, there
      are a number of changes to Hogwarts policy this year. Among them,
      the Sorting Hat will not be sorting first years among the four
      Houses as has occurred in years past. Instead, to promote greater
      school integrity, your first year house has been determined by the
      use of a random number spell." As she spoke, I noticed the portrait
      of Helga Hufflepuff standing up a little taller and nodding in
      approval, while the other portraits seemed to slump slightly. The
      man with the snake seemed about to speak, but ducked his head in
      apology when the Headmistress glared at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Headmistress McGonnagall went on, "You will sleep in the
      dormitories of your assigned house, and will have your meals at the
      house tables. Do not become too comfortable with your house
      assignments, however! Houses will be reassigned each year,
      henceforth, for howsoever long as I serve as Headmistress of
      Hogwarts. Professors Flitwick, Lupin, Snape, and Sprout each have a
      list of new student names, which they will read off once I have
      proceeded to the Great Hall. They will also explain the historical
      significance of the four houses, so that the traditional values of
      the houses shall not be lost." The portrait of Godric Gryffindor
      nodded gruffly at this, though the Ravenclaw and Slytherin
      portraits continued to look skeptical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, the Headmistress exited through the double doors,
      which silently closed behind her. The moment the doors closed,
      everyone seemed to begin speaking at once. The Headmistress's
      announcement was evidently rather a startling one, and all of the
      Wizard-born first years seemed to have something to say about it.
      Eventually the confusion died down, and the four Professors each
      took a turn reading off names. Ginny and I were both to be housed
      in Slytherin, we learned, while Luna would be in Gryffindor. Ginny
      looked up at the portrait of Salazar Slytherin rather warily after
      we heard we'd be living in his house for the next year, and he
      glared down at me with utter contempt. "Slytherin never cared for
      Muggleborns," Ginny explained in a whisper. Our new Head of House
      didn't seem so welcoming either, but he seemed equally unfriendly
      toward all of the new residents of Slytherin.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's notes:</strong> Apologies for slight delay in
      release of Chapter 5. Chapter 6 should be published on or before
      March 15, 2014.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
