<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>40. Dennis and the Academy - Dennis and the Academy Chapter 6: Welcoming Feast, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="40. Dennis and the Academy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Welcoming Feast</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Once we'd learned what houses we'd be living in, and a few of
      the Wizard-born students were beginning to wonder aloud whether we
      would now be able to go eat, Professor Sprout called out for
      everybody to quiet down, and explained that we would now enter the
      Great Hall where we would sit at our House tables, but that before
      the food arrived we would get to meet the Sorting Hat after all.
      The new Sorting Ceremony would not sort us into houses, but into
      likely future careers. This Career Sorting would foster more
      personalized mentoring by Hogwarts faculty, she explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny has her doubts about the usefulness of this new type of
      Sorting, given that we all still take the same core classes and
      still get to choose our electives. She reckons that the real
      purpose of the new Sorting Ceremony is so that the Sorting Hat
      doesn't go insane with boredom. She actually mentioned this
      hypothesis at one of the early meetings of Chaos Club, which
      launched a lively debate. Harry Potter-Evans-Verres was
      uncharacteristically silent for that discussion, and mostly sat
      there looking uncomfortable while the conversation ran its course.
      I never found out why he reacted that way, but I guess it's
      probably related to a rumour I heard that at some point after the
      Welcoming Feast, older students were given the option of Career
      Sorting if they wanted, but that the Hat had refused point-blank to
      be placed onto Harry's head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whether Ginny's idea is right or not, during our Career Sorting,
      the Sorting Hat announced that Ginny was well suited to work in the
      Ministry, that Luna should be prepared for training as a Healer,
      and that I was likely to go on to a career in journalism. I wonder
      whether part of Ginny's scepticism is rooted in annoyance at the
      suggestion that she might follow in her father's footsteps. For
      other students, the Sorting Hat suggested careers like Auror (for
      any Muggles reading this, that's the name for the police in Magical
      Britain), magical artefact development, or banking. There were
      gasps of shock all around the room at the first mention of banking,
      and I heard a couple of students at the Slytherin table mutter
      things about how the goblins wouldn't be happy, or quietly
      grumbling that we were headed for another goblin rebellion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once we'd all settled ourselves again, the Headmistress stood up
      from the teachers' table, and spoke in her loud strong voice,
      "Welcome to a new year at Hogwarts!" and then I heard a catch in
      her voice, almost as though she were about to cry, as she
      continued, "Before we begin our banquet, I would like to say a few
      words." She paused, then took a deep breath before going on, her
      voice strengthening once more as she spoke, "No, I am no Albus
      Dumbledore, and there is no replacing him. He was not always the
      wisest of Headmasters, but it is nevertheless a great honour to
      have had the privilege of calling him my colleague. However," and
      here the tall witch smiled slightly, "in his honour, let me repeat
      for you a few words that he would have liked for you to hear:
      Nitwit! Blubber! Oddment! Tweak! Thank you." And so saying, she sat
      down again to a rather sedated round of applause from the
      school.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this moment, the Hogwarts House Elves, who had been lined up
      in the back of the Hall, clapped their hands in unison, and dishes
      of hot food floated out of a hidden doorway, landing gently on the
      five tables. The food was quite good, though nothing like home. I
      was ravenous, which I guess makes sense. It had been a long day:
      train ride, encounter with a giant, boat ride, finding out where
      I'd be living for the next year, and Career Sorting. Anyhow, I ate
      quickly, focused on little else, and was barely finished when I
      slowly realized that the Great Hall had fallen into a sort of hush
      of anticipation. All eyes were on the Faculty Table, and when I
      followed the collective gaze, I saw that Headmistress McGonnagall
      was standing up again. Looking back, I suppose that most of the
      student body had been waiting rather impatiently for the more
      substantial speech traditionally given by the Headmistress or
      Headmaster at the end of the Welcoming Feast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">So many changes this year</em></em>, Luna had said. Of
      course the students were waiting. Most the speech that followed
      focused school policy, which evidently was not very different from
      previous years, then something about Quidditch tryouts with
      reference to the elimination of one of the positions. There was a
      general murmur of resigned discontent at that. Finally, she went on
      to discuss the changes in course offerings and to introduce new
      faculty. Based on the responses of my classmates, this was the
      really interesting part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Bones would be teaching Battle Tactics and Strategy, a
      more general form of the old Hogwarts class called Defense Against
      the Dark Arts, and Professor Lupin, the new Head of Gryffindor
      House, would be teaching a new upper level elective called Magical
      Anthropology. The goal of the class on Magical Anthropology was to
      promote better relations among Wizards, Muggles, and what Professor
      McGonnagall referred to as, "Non-Human Sentients." Professor Lupin,
      she explained, was a werewolf, and therefore uniquely qualified to
      instruct us on the cultural differences among these groups. I was a
      little startled to learn that a werewolf would be teaching, but
      Professor Lupin didn't look nearly as intimidating as Mr. Hagrid,
      and Professor McGonnagall was so manner-of-fact about it that I
      realized I wasn't particularly upset. The other students seemed to
      accept this happily enough too, though Ginny whispered, "Before
      Fixus Everythingus, that announcement would have caused
      <em class="calibre7"><em class="calibre7">rioting</em></em>," and then very seriously added, "I'm not
      exaggerating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the Headmistress went on to announce that classes in Muggle
      Science had been added for each year. Given the textbook lists,
      this announcement had been long-expected by most students, and was
      met by a quiet murmur of acknowledgement. The murmur became angry
      when she went on to say that the new courses would be replacing
      History of Magic. I briefly assumed that History of Magic had been
      a particularly popular course, but Ginny explained in a low voice,
      "Most of them count on History of Magic as a chance to catch up on
      sleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally McGonnagall introduced the new Professor of Muggle
      Science, Professor Evans-Verres. McGonnagall explained that some
      evidence had come to light that Muggle Science had much to offer
      her own field of Transfiguration, and that she had high hopes that
      other magical subjects would benefit as well. At Professor
      Evans-Verres' insistence, Arithmancy would now be a required
      subject as well, replacing Astronomy, which would now be available
      as an upper level elective. This arrangement would permit Professor
      Sinistra the time she would require to bring herself up to speed on
      the past two hundred years of Muggle Astronomy, as well as to
      expand her independent research.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For my own part," the Headmistress continued, "I shall be
      collaborating directly with Professor Evans-Verres on the
      development of a new research program on the use of Muggle Science
      to analyse Transfiguration and the applications of Muggle Science
      to Transfiguration. I am looking forward to those collaboration as
      what I am certain shall be a very fruitful endeavour, and I know
      that all of you will do your best to make Professor Evans-Verres
      and his wife Petunia Verres-Evans welcome at this school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that moment, I heard some slight snickering on the other side
      of the hall and saw Fred and George whispering to each other at the
      Gryffindor table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonnagall raised a severe eyebrow, and to my surprise the
      Weasley twins went instantly silent and looked up, very seriously.
      The Headmistress spoke then in a low and dangerous voice, "As you
      may have inferred, my extensive responsibilities will afford me
      little time for nonsense, and I trust that we shall have none. Have
      no fear, however, that my duties as Headmistress will be neglected.
      Should my teaching and research duties every collide with my
      responsibilities as Headmistress, Deputy Headmaster Flitwick shall
      be standing by."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Flitwick gave a brief sombre nod of confirmation, and
      then McGonnagall concluded her speech in lighter tones, welcoming
      us once more to Hogwarts and wishing us all a restful night.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's notes:</strong> Chapter 7 should be published
      on or before April 1, 2014. No, really.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
