<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>33. Nothing Left but Fire - Nothing Left but Fire Chapter 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="33. Nothing Left but Fire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">In a hallway of Hogwarts, a boy stood silent, with the moonlit
      form of a human standing by his side and that of a serpent before
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Hello, my Heir. You have ssaid that you would sseek my
      Chamber. You may have expected ssome great trialss, ssome tasskss I
      will sset of you to prove your worth before I grant you my
      ssecretss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I am not sso foolissh ass that. When I look back on my own
      younger yearss, I ssee nothing in them that could passss any real
      tesst I might lay now. The purposse of the Chamber iss not to judge
      my desscendantss; they may judge each other ass they pleasse. The
      riddle of the Patronuss wass not intended ass a tesst upon you,
      ssimply ass a ssafeguard againsst otherss who might sseek my
      ssecretss for themsselvess, or sseek to bury them and hide them
      forever from my true Heirss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, even if that made Harry feel a bit stupid, it was
      encouraging from the point of view of Salazar's intelligence that
      what he had planned as a simple safeguard had tricked Harry for
      nearly a year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"The purposse of my Chamber iss ssimply to grant power to my
      desscendantss, that they may write the future in their image, and
      thuss in mine. I ssupposse thiss iss sselfissh of me, but you may
      think what you will. There iss, however, one thing that will be
      required of you, before you are taken to the Chamber. If you have
      found the chance to make usse of Parsseltongue, you may have
      noticed a peculiarity of it."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought he knew where this was going, and his heart was
      racing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"When sspeaking in Parsseltongue, it iss not possssible to
      lie. Ever. There iss a reasson I choosse the ssnake ass my ssigil.
      For all that humanss desspisse them, the sspirit of ssnakess iss a
      sspirit of abssolute honessty - among themsselvess, at
      leasst."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice sounded drier here, somehow more amused, and
      frighteningly close to that of Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"To otherss you may sspeak ass you will, but know that the
      cursse I have bound you with iss one of complete honessty within
      the bloodline of Sslytherin. The finesst Occlumenss born cannot
      tell the sslightesst falssehood in thiss sspeech. And before thiss
      emisssary leadss you to my Chamber, it will require a ssimple
      asssurance from you, that you intend no harm to any of my
      ssecretss, that my Chamber and my Monsster sshall remain untouched
      by your hand."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to resist the urge to punch the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I asssure you that I intend..."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The silver serpent cut him off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Repeat exactly the wordss of my emisssary. They have been
      chossen carefully to allow no trickss of wording, and I advise you
      follow this example in any future dealings in this
      tongue."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ssnake sspoke, and Harry echoed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I currently intend no actionss towardss the Chamber of
      Ssecretss or towardss anything I might find there that could in any
      way harm the ability of the Chamber to convey its ssecretss to
      ssubssequent Heirss of Sslytherin, and I do not anticipate my
      intentionss changing at any point in the future."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Place your hand upon me and do not let go,"</em> hissed the
      silvery form of Draco's Patronus, and Harry complied. Then the
      snake hissed, raised its head, flickered its tongue as if tasting
      the air, and then turned as a Patronus about to depart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And, as it did, Harry followed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Chamber of Secrets, disappointingly enough, didn't look like
      anything special - it simply looked like an empty classroom. There
      was even a door, which Harry had peered out of - it seemed to lead
      to a disused hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"There are two final thingss I am to ssay to you. Firsst,
      you may come and go to thiss Chamber in future. To depart, ssimply
      leave by that door." The snake flicked its head towards the door.
      "You will not be able to find the door again in future; if you
      wissh to come again, you musst call me again and again sswear that
      you intend no harm. No otherss may be brought to thiss Chamber -
      they cannot find this door from within Hogwartss, even if you help
      them, and I will not bear them. Sslytherin'ss Monsster will arrive
      sshortly to begin your training, young Heir. Everything in this
      Chamber worth your attention or use liess with it; there is nothing
      elsse you need do while waiting, take the time to resst."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The serpent turned again, and vanished, but Harry remained,
      staring into one corner of the room, with a chill running down his
      spine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the corner of the Chamber, surrounded by the dust of years,
      lay a Penseive. And before it there lay a note.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared down at the note, but he knew, somehow, what he
      would see, even before he saw the signature at the bottom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Yours,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">T. M. Riddle.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hello, fellow Heir.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the spirit of our founder, Salazar Slytherin, I have left you
      a gift too. Mine, alas, is rather less useful than his, but we do
      what we can.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I leave you this empty, useless Chamber, whose Monster has been
      slain and whose treasures have been taken. If you are interested in
      how it was done, I suggest you consult the Penseive next to this
      note.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I should not be leaving this note at all, of course, much less
      the Penseive - it violates my Rules Twelve, Fifteen, Twenty-Four,
      and even Rule One - but I find myself simply unable to resist. In
      any case, should you plan to take vengeance on me for depriving you
      of your inheritance, I strongly urge you to first consult the
      Penseive and then consider the likely outcome of such an
      attempt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While I will understand if you do not trust me given the
      circumstances, I give you my oath that the Penseive is safe to
      consult, and most certainly safer to consult than not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yours,</p>
      <p class="calibre6">T. M. Riddle</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
