<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>33. Nothing Left but Fire - Nothing Left but Fire Chapter 5, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="33. Nothing Left but Fire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The appointed hour had almost arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lowered his wand and paused, taking a moment to control
      his breathing. He was standing by the Hogwarts Lake, in as exposed
      a location as he could manage. The rest of Hogwarts had been
      evacuated to what Harry had claimed would be a safe distance
      (though the idea of that seemed almost laughable to him). He'd also
      sent a Patronus Charm to Professor Quirrell, just to make sure
      Quirrel knew where he was, since Professor Quirrell failing to show
      up would be...a significant disaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In any case, he needn't have worried. Seven days to the minute
      from the moment Quirrell had retrieved the Stone, a rapidly
      approaching form became visible in the sky. Harry hadn't expected
      Quirrell to bring any Death Eaters along - he wouldn't want to
      expose any useful minions to the risk of Harry, say, Transfiguring
      a thin carbon filament through their brains - but the approaching
      figure seemed to be surrounded by other ones...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Quirrell descended, Harry had some trouble keeping his voice
      level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it the Philosopher's Stone lets you give
      yourself...additional blood to replace what is lost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A laugh, not the dry chuckle of the Defense Professor but the
      cruel jeer of Lord Voldmort. <em class="calibre8">"Sso you ssee, boy."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord touched down, the grass around him blackening and
      dying. Around him whirled dozens of concentric circles of blackened
      wings, burning phoenixes of dark fire beyond count, seeming to
      scorch the very air even at this distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Enough destructive power to level Hogwarts, tear it to the
      ground, consume it stone by stone until nothing remained save
      ash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Philosopher's Stone was scary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mocking voice spoke again, not in Parseltongue this time.
      (Harry was learning to pay attention to things like that.) "I
      confess, I was surprised to receive your message."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry inclined his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I trust you are about to tell me that you have come up with
      some scheme so brilliantly clever I have no choice but to
      surrender?" Faint, hissing laughter. <em class="calibre8">"If sso, boy, would be
      wisse to ssay sso sswiftly."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The gun was in Quirrell's hand, aimed cleanly at Harry's
      chest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't afraid of that. He had a Shield Charm up, and
      though normally it would take until fifth or sixth year for a
      student to be able to reliably deflect bullets that rule didn't
      really apply here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(For that matter, it would normally take until third or fourth
      year for a student to be able to even cast a Shield Charm. Again,
      though, that didn't really apply here).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell had evidently noticed the Charm.
      <em class="calibre8">"Interessting. Did not think you would be capable of that
      magic, boy. I will confesss I am intrigued, but your messsage
      annoyed me and my patience iss wearing thin. It iss not wisse to
      annoy Lord Voldemort, child - sspeak now, before you losse the
      ability."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord seemed confident in his ability to kill Harry even
      through a Shield Charm his magic couldn't interact with. Not to say
      that was a stupid belief for him to have - Harry had thought of
      several ways for a more powerful wizard to kill a less powerful one
      despite the resonance between their magics. Imperius curses on
      wizards of intermediate power, who could then kill him for you -
      though perhaps a less invasive form of mind magic would be
      necessary, Harry didn't know if the resonance would be carried
      through an Imperius-ed conduit - were the most obvious one, but
      there were plenty of others, especially for someone who had read
      the D&amp;D source books and knew why Conjuration spells bypassed
      Spell Resistance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If a spell creates something that is not of its nature magical,
      that thing can affect even foes that would normally be impervious
      to magic. When Harry had Finite-d his Transfigured rock inside the
      troll's throat, the troll hadn't been killed by a spell - it had
      been killed by the sudden appearance of a simple, non-magical rock
      in its throat. Similarly, a spell to create nonmagical fire, or to
      send nonmagical stones or knives flying with great velocity at the
      target, or to Transfigure a nonmagical nuclear weapon near them,
      would not be a direct magical interaction, and would not trigger
      the resonance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had spent some time over the past few days thinking of all
      the ways you could use magic to kill someone you couldn't directly
      affect with magic, for exactly the opposite of the reason you might
      expect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Yess, I have plan. Wissh to tell you one thing firsst,
      though."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord hissed. <em class="calibre8">"And what might that be?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Ssusspect that sshortly you will want to kill me. Wisshed
      to be clear that it will not work. Even if you are willing to
      ssacrifice body, even if you sseek to classh your magic with my own
      to trigger ressonance, you will not be able to kill me
      here."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord paused, and if those red eyes were human ones
      Harry could have sworn they would have blinked. Then he smiled, and
      his voice dripped with contempt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, I see. Almost clever, boy...for a first-year student. To
      have yourself Confunded, or perhaps Legilimized, so that you can
      threaten me in Parseltongue and mean it. But it is four decades
      short of the cunning you will need to challenge me, and you do not
      have four decades. <em class="calibre8">You do not have four minutess. It iss over,
      boy."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his wand, and the Dark Lord laughed. "Come then.
      The look on your face when you realize will be worth letting you
      live another few seconds. Cast the mighty spell you think I cannot
      match, for I wish to see your dismay when you realize it was only a
      trick you played upon yourself. It would be a pity were such fine
      cruelty to go to waste."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his wand. "Do you see that rock, over there?" He
      had left his father's rock by the edge of the pond. It seemed like
      a fitting last use for it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Do you sseek to delay me, boy, or iss there point to
      thiss?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Iss point. Watch. And would be wisse to raise sshieldss
      upon yoursself if not already pressent, sside effectss could be
      unpleassant elsse."</em> Harry had considered omitting that
      warning, but on the whole it seemed wiser not to annoy the Dark
      Lord except where it was necessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was spinning through space, whirling across the solar system
      faster than any human could imagine travelling...Harry flicked his
      wand in the direction of the rock and spoke two words.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
