<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>33. Nothing Left but Fire - Nothing Left but Fire Chapter 6, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="33. Nothing Left but Fire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Since, by the laws of Relativity, there was no such thing as a
      single privileged reference frame, that meant there was no such
      thing as being 'stationary'. An object could be stationary
      <em class="calibre8">within a frame of reference</em>, or <em class="calibre8">relative to another
      object</em>. But to bring an object to a halt in one frame of
      reference was to cause it to move in another one. And that
      meant...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Arresto Momentum!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a brief time as the shock wave travelled through the air,
      perhaps the twentieth part of a heartbeat , there was no sound,
      only a vertical line of fire reaching up into the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the sonic boom hit, strong enough at this distance to knock
      people off their feet, to shatter eardrums, possibly to damage
      organs through sudden overpressure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy-Who-Lived and the Dark Lord stood facing one another, as
      the wind and the fire blasted past the blue shields around
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of them was laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord's head was thrown back, and he was laughing. But
      it wasn't the laugh Harry had expected to hear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had heard Professor Quirrell's laugh, and it was a dry and
      cynical laugh at the stupidity of others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had heard the Dark Lord's laugh, and it was a cold and cruel
      laugh at their suffering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this was a different kind of laugh altogether.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Voldemort was happy. Not with a malicious, vindictive glee
      to have seen others suffer; not with a cynical amusement to have
      been proved right yet again; but with what seemed like genuine and
      sincere enjoyment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, just as suddenly, the laughter stopped, and the piercing
      eyes of the Dark Lord were upon him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting, boy. Is this what you spoke of in the threat your
      Patronus conveyed to me? <em class="calibre8">If sso, I fear it will not be
      adequate.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"It iss part of the power I have gained, but only a part.
      Realize that thiss alone iss not ssufficient to truly kill you -
      even if I ssend rock flying into you at great sspeed, Horcruxess
      will let you return eassily."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Good that you realize that. So, if you know that thiss
      power iss inadequate to your needss, what power iss it that makess
      you sso confident? What power iss it that let you ssend me ssuch a
      threat?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had sent his Patronus to find Lord Voldemort with a
      message to meet him at this place at this time. Then he had added a
      phrase in Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I am not certain what your interesstss are, but regardlesss
      I can asssure you abssolutely that to sshow up at the appointed
      place and time will be better for those interesstss than to not
      arrive."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry guessed that sounded like a threat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, it was a threat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he had nothing to offer the Dark Lord that would serve as
      sufficient incentive to change his mind, that was the only other
      possibility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet...this had seemed like a bad idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A really bad idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A really really bad idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His inner Hufflepuff and Gryffindor had gone on strike at the
      suggestion of what he was soon going to say, rejecting it
      completely as a solution. Until...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Before I ansswer that, I wissh to know what your goalss
      are."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A hiss. <em class="calibre8">"Foolissh boy, I will not give you tactical
      information that betterss your possition in fear of-"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Not sshort-term planss, not implementationss nor tacticss.
      Long-term goalss. Once you have sshattered all ressistance, once
      you reign undissputed, what will you do then? If there were no
      limitss to the power of your magic, what would you do, if you could
      do anything?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every part of Harry was holding their breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"And if my ansswer iss not to your liking?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Sshould you fail to ansswer, I will asssume your reasson
      for thiss iss that your goalss are sso evil ass to be worsse than
      anything I can imagine, and will act accordingly."</em> It might
      not be a fair thing to say, it actually felt a lot like the
      argumentative equivalent of taking hostages, but if nothing else
      Professor Quirrell had definitely broken that rule first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the Dark Lord only laughed, and reached inside his cloak,
      tossed something to land near Harry's feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a biology textbook. A standard high-school textbook, the
      sort Harry had read entirely in fourth grade and moved on from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the sort that Harry had given to Quirrell a few weeks
      ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His conscious mind didn't yet know exactly where this was going,
      but it felt as if some horrible dark thought were brewing inside
      him, rising up inexorably...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really, Mr. Potter, you should have seen it for yourself. It
      never fails to amaze me how naive you are about which parts of your
      knowledge can be dangerous. But this knowledge you already knew for
      yourself to be dangerous. The fascists, a bunch of very nasty
      people..." The voice was Professor Quirrell's, but the mockery was
      Lord Voldemort's. "You have already seen this knowledge used for
      what you would call evil, and yet you gave it to me anyway. And for
      that, I thank you, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something terrible and hidden, mysterious and dark...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After all, I have two favorite things in this world, Mr.
      Potter. One of them is killing idiots...and the other is finding
      intelligent people. And until you gave me this book, I never even
      realized that I could pursue both goals at once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's fingers were trembling where they rested on the wand. A
      policy of comprehensive eugenics, implemented by a mind with the
      power and intelligence of Professor Quirrel behind it, with the
      sole goal of producing people Lord Voldemort considered worth
      talking to...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He raised the wand. "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what do you plan to do about it, boy? You still have not
      presented me with any threat adequate to change my motivations. You
      still have not offered me any prize sufficient to turn me aside.
      Why should I listen to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath. <em class="calibre8">"Because I posssesss the power to
      end you completely, to ssever your chain of existence and leave
      nothing left, no trace that once you were. I have not done sso
      already becausse the level of collateral damage would be
      incredible, but I will do sso if you continue down thiss
      path."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what path would you have me take instead, boy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A feeling of loss, of sacrifice, of doors closing, of
      possibilities forever out of reach... "To arrange this would be
      difficult, but I feel it should be achievable, using Unbreakable
      Vows. I wish for us both to sacrifice our magic, sacrifice our
      lives as wizards, and return to the Muggle world we were born in.
      You may continue the goals you are currently set upon, and I will
      continue on mine, but we will continue them with the tools of
      Muggles. We may meet one another as enemies, somewhere down the
      road, but we will meet the weapons of Muggles, not with the far
      greater and more terrible power of wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Unacceptable. "</em> There was a fury in the voice so cold
      it seemed to have almost physical force, the word hissed so
      viciously Harry couldn't even say for sure whether it was in
      Parseltongue or not. <em class="calibre8">"I will accept no ssuch termss, not from a
      fool of a firsst-year who hass learned ssome petty trickss and
      thinkss he hass gained power. You will tell me now, boy, will tell
      me how it iss you think you can vanquissh me. Then I will
      demonsstrate to you how your plan iss sspectacularly flawed. Then I
      will kill you. Then I will find all thosse who you care about, all
      thosse who are near and dear, and I will sspend an eternity in
      teaching them the price of your inssolence and your defiance."</em>
      The face of the Dark Lord was a livid mask of fury, and Harry
      stepped back reflexively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Sso tell me, boy! What iss it, thiss power of yourss? How
      iss it that you think to besst me?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't say the words out loud, however much he wanted to
      it wouldn't actually be a good idea to give it away. But it was in
      his mind in spite of that, something he would never get a better
      chance to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Tell me, Professor...have you ever played
      Morrowind?</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
