<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>33. Nothing Left but Fire - Nothing Left but Fire Chapter 8: Omake - Till Death Shall Fall, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="33. Nothing Left but Fire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Omake – Till Death Shall Fall</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">It seems like the previous chapter didn't make it completely
      clear that it was the last one, so just to be clearer: this story
      is over. I do not intend to write any further, partly because I
      don't actually know what happens next but mostly because I don't
      think whatever happens next would be as interesting to write about.
      If you're following this story to see what happens: sorry, you
      won't find out. I don't even know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As an apology, have an omake. This is a bizarre theory I came up
      with for what happened when Voldemort tried to kill Harry at
      Godric's Hollow. While it has been thoroughly and comprehensively
      falsified (and wasn't ever really plausible to begin with), I still
      like it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them stood there in silence, their minds twisting
      in doubt and in fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were none of them cowards; some would say that they were
      among the bravest wizards who had ever lived. Not in the sense that
      they did not fear Death, for they feared it terribly. Not in the
      sense that they would charge heedlessly into danger, for they would
      not. But in the sense that they would never shy away from a task,
      however far beyond them it might seem. They would not let their
      little fears master them, they would not turn aside when there was
      a foe they needed to face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet, there came a point when they looked back on the years
      of effort they had spent, and looked forwards at the years they had
      left, and they saw the hand of Death rising inexorable, and they
      knew that they had not done enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a story, this would have been the darkness just before the
      dawn. In a story, they would have reached deep inside them for
      every drop of strength they possessed, and in a moment of glory
      they would have found their answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But to expect that would be foolishness. To find power that they
      did not already possess would imply that there was some strength
      they had for some reason been holding back before, some plausible
      idea or some promising plan that they had not already tried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the Brothers Peverell had long ago accepted that they did
      not live in a story.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, at length, one of them spoke, and said: "What if we..."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">currentDate = 19811031;</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">membersOfHousePotterLiving = 2;</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lily, take Harry and go! It's him!" shouted a man's voice. "Go!
      Run! I'll hold him off!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the other voice spoke, high-pitched like the hiss of a
      teakettle, like a brand of metal cooled to liquid helium
      temperatures and laid on every part of the body. And the voice
      said:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Avadakedavra."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">membersOfHousePotterLiving = 1;</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not Harry, not Harry, please not Harry!" screamed the woman's
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Step aside, woman!" said the shrill voice of burning cold. "For
      you I am not come, only the boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not Harry! Please... have mercy... have mercy..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I give you this rare chance to flee," said the shrill voice.
      "But I will not trouble myself to subdue you, and your death here
      will not save your child. Step aside, foolish woman, if you have
      any sense in you at all!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," said the voice of death, now sounding coldly
      amused, "I accept the bargain. Yourself to die, and the child to
      live. Now drop your wand so that I can murder you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a hideous silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Voldemort began to laugh, horrible contemptuous
      laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then, at last, Lily Potter's voice shrieked in desperate
      hate, <em class="calibre8">"Avada ke-"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lethal voice finished first, the curse rapid and
      precise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Avadakedavra."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A blinding flare of green marked the end of Lily Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the boy in the crib saw it, the eyes, those two crimson
      eyes, seeming to glow bright red, to blaze like miniature suns,
      filling Harry's whole vision as they locked to his own. The wand
      came up, and the cold voice began, <em class="calibre8">"Ava-"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">immediateThreat = True;</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">pLethal= 0.997;</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">IF (immediateThreat == True &amp;&amp;
      membersOfHousePotterLiving == 1 &amp;&amp; pLethal GREATER THAN
      engageThreshold ) THEN ...</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">And, ordinarily, that would have been the end of it. Lord
      Voldemort was a powerful wizard indeed, a master of the Dark Arts
      armed with the last lore of Salazar Slytherin. But the wards that
      protected House Potter had been laid upon their bloodline by the
      three Brothers Peverell themselves, to ensure the continuation of
      their line, to ensure the completion of their Quest though it
      should not come for centuries. And into those wards had been poured
      magic and lore beyond reckoning, with years of labor from three of
      the wisest wizards to live in an age when magic was strong, to
      shield and preserve their descendants until Death should fall.
      Before them, all the Dark Lord's power was as a child with a
      schoolboy's Charm against a trained battlemage. Oh, the art of
      Horcrux was an intriguing one, but it was one that had been
      thoroughly ravelled by that makers of these wards, and one that it
      was well within their power to break.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ordinarily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But his strength and his lore, his Dark magic and his Horcruxes,
      were not the only protections upon Lord Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">membersOfHouseGauntRemaining = 1;</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
