<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Irrational Odyssey - Harry Potter and the Irrational Odyssey Chapter 1: A Vertical Velocity of Zero, a Harry Potter + X-overs Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Irrational Odyssey"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: A Vertical Velocity of Zero</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">CURRENTLY UNDERGOING HEAVY REVISION -</strong> Most of
      it is likely to be scrapped and redone from the ground up.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: Joanne Rowling brought Harry Potter into our world.
      Eliezer Yudkowsky found a nearby timeline (which this story
      branches off from) within the space of possible books surrounding
      Harry Potter. Robert A. Heinlein codified the idea of "the World as
      Myth." The cover image contains foreground elements from an unnamed
      vanitas painted by Simon Renard de St. André, and the background
      was created by Google's Deep Dream Generator.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: This is a sequel to Harry Potter and the Methods
      of Rationality, and it begins in medias res during HPMOR's ending.
      It isn't entirely necessary to have read HPMOR in order to follow
      the plot of HPIO. However, HPMOR is pretty great, and you're gonna
      have <em class="calibre9">the</em> <em class="calibre9">entire ending of it</em> spoiled if you try
      to read HPIO first, so, y'know, maybe consider reading HPMOR if you
      haven't already. Also, in the interest of full disclosure I am
      obligated to inform you of the fact that this is a Mega Crossover,
      or a Massively Multiplayer Crossover, or a Multicross, or whatever
      the hell you wanna call it. <em class="calibre9">"A sequel to HPMOR? And on top of
      that it's a crossover? There's no way in hell this isn't gonna turn
      out to be a rolling dumpster fire."</em> I know this seems like an
      absurd premise for a story. Trust me, <em class="calibre9">I know</em>. But this is
      not going to go the way you think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing is infinite. Everything has an end. Mors fontis
      Omnia.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">The sound of gunfire rang in her ears as she reached into
      her pouch and drew forth the wax-sealed paper, on the surface of
      which was inscribed simply the number 42. She broke the seal and
      began to read...</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">HARRY POTTER</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">AND</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">THE</strong> <strong class="calibre7">IRRATIONAL ODYSSEY</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Book One: Everything Not Forbidden</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Chapter 1 - A Vertical Velocity of Zero</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon a rooftop terrace floored in rough-hewn stone, atop a high
      tower which no one looking at the Hogwarts castle from the outside
      could see, Harry stood facing Hermione across crossed wands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you at least not say anything about 'until death takes me',
      because did I mention I have the Philosopher's Stone now? Or
      anything about 'the end of the world and its magic'?" He raked his
      free hand through his hair and gave a small, strained smile. "I'm a
      lot more nervous around phrases like that than I used to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, maybe after this you'll be less nervous," said Hermione.
      "I <em class="calibre9">do</em> choose this, now." A sharp-edged gust of wind caught
      her hair, and her chestnut curls billowed around her shoulders. She
      seemed somehow older, as though an undercurrent of formidable power
      were bubbling just beneath the surface of her tranquil
      demeanor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed that his field of vision seemed to have expanded,
      and that the color saturation of the world had noticeably
      intensified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione spoke again, her voice level and precise. "Upon my life
      and magic I swear friendship to Harry Potter, to help him and trust
      in him, to stand with him and stand by him, and to sometimes go
      where he can't go, till the day that death takes me for real - if
      it ever really does, I mean." She was silent for a moment, then
      smiled. "And if the world or its magic ends, we'll deal with that
      together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A huge grin lit Harry's face. Hermione had been right, he felt
      much less nervous now about the prophesied destruction of -</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">If this were a story, that would have been The End.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">What? Why did I just think that?</em> He frowned at the
      strange little thought, annoyed that his brain had interrupted
      itself with such an irrational non sequitur. <em class="calibre9">I mean, I guess
      it</em> does <em class="calibre9">fit the pattern, in the sense of conforming to
      standard literary convention...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Far below in the Hogwarts grounds, a large grove of trees swayed
      in the crisp morning air, drawing Harry's attention back to
      reality. Spring was rolling into summer in the Scottish Highlands;
      the wind was light and cool, the sun bright and warm, and
      Hermione's Magical Aura of Innocence and Purity™ was filling him
      with a sense of calm peace. It was all too easy to disregard a
      vague apprehension and shove it to the back of his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt much less nervous now about the prophesied destruction
      of the world at his own hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned his head to gaze out towards the horizon. Thoughts
      of the future pervaded his mind - Hermione, the Philosopher's
      Stone, all of the revolutionary things the three of them were going
      to accomplish together - and he couldn't help but smile again. He
      thought of the stars, and of prophecies thereof, and he thought of
      Dumbledore's posthumously delivered letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">During the First Wizarding War, there came a time when I
      realized that Voldemort was winning, that he would soon hold All
      within his hands.</em> <em class="calibre9">In that extremity, I went into the
      Department of Mysteries and I invoked a password which had never
      been spoken in the history of the Line of Merlin Unbroken, did a
      thing forbidden and yet not utterly forbidden.</em> <em class="calibre9">I listened
      to every prophecy that had ever been recorded, and</em> <em class="calibre9">I
      learned that my troubles were far worse than Voldemort.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">From certain seers and diviners have come an increasing
      chorus of foretellings that this world is doomed to
      destruction.</em> <em class="calibre9">And you, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, are
      one of those foretold to destroy it.</em> <em class="calibre9">By all rights, I
      should have ended your line of possibility, stopped you from ever
      being born, as I did my best to end all the other possibilities I
      discovered on that day of terrible awakening. Yet in your case,
      Harry, and in your case alone, the prophecies of your apocalypse
      have loopholes, though those loopholes be ever so slight. Always
      'he will end the world', not 'he will end life'. Even when it was
      said that you would tear apart the very stars in heaven, it was not
      said that you would tear apart the people. And so, it being clear
      that this world is not meant to last, I have gambled literally
      everything upon you, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">There were no prophecies regarding how the world might be
      saved, so I found the prophecies that offered loopholes in the
      destruction, and I brought about the strange and complex conditions
      for those prophecies to come to pass. I ensured that Voldemort
      discovered a certain one of those prophecies, and so (even as I had
      feared) condemned your parents to death and made you what you
      are.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shuddered involuntarily. There were <em class="calibre9">certainly</em>
      timelines somewhere out there in the multiverse where the only
      point of divergence from his own reality had been a single misstep
      in Dumbledore's plan. How many possible points of divergence still
      lay ahead? And how many neighboring timelines were there where
      Harry had already been - or might yet still be - responsible for
      the extinction of the entire human race?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Fate had conspired to have him bound by an Unbreakable Vow
      to take no action that might cause the world's destruction, and to
      have Hermione brought back from the dead and bound by oath to keep
      him in check. If <em class="calibre9">anyone</em> was going to bring Dumbledore's
      plans to fruition, it was going to be some version of the two of
      them. Hermione having her own horcrux (and having been imbued
      during the resurrection ritual with select attributes from both a
      unicorn and a troll) made it exceedingly unlikely that she'd be
      dying again any time soon, and the fact that the Philosopher's
      Stone made Tranfigurations permanent was practically cheating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Well, just</em> having <em class="calibre9">the Stone isn't enough to go
      declaring an Instant Global Victory Condition, but it'll still be
      pretty damn useful. We're going to</em> <em class="calibre9">literally</em>
      <em class="calibre9">found a New Atlantis.</em> Harry mentally capitalized both
      words, and snickered to himself. <em class="calibre9">And then... And then
      w</em><em class="calibre9">e're</em> deliberately <em class="calibre9">going to '</em><em class="calibre9">end the
      world'.</em> <em class="calibre9">A complete overhaul of the fundamentals of
      civilization, a unification of the human race into a global society
      of immortal wizards, and then we leave Old Earth behind and start
      spreading out across the cosmos...</em> He paused; the absurd
      magnitude of the Baconian project should have felt beyond the realm
      of possibility, yet every step along the path now seemed tangibly
      imminent within his own lifetime. <em class="calibre9">And eventually... We're going
      to Optimize Literally Everything. I still can't believe this is
      actually happening...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tears had begun welling up in Harry's eyes, and he quickly
      lifted a sleeve to brush them away. It was an immeasurable tragedy
      that The Future™ couldn't be brought about instantaneously, that
      some who yet lived would still die in the darkness-before-dawn,
      here at the beginning of all things before intelligent life had
      fully come into its power. The Stone could make one Transfiguration
      permanent every three minutes and fifty-four seconds. Even if it
      only took a single second, there were still six billion people in
      the world, and six billion seconds was almost two hundred years.
      And the Unbreakable Vow which Voldemort had forced Harry to make
      prevented him from immediately tearing down the Statute of Secrecy
      and extending the Stone's healing to the Muggle world, so it would
      be a while - <em class="calibre9">years,</em> possibly - before they found a way to
      truly save <em class="calibre9">everyone;</em> but if immediately granting
      immortality and the use of magic to the entire human race would
      result in extinction, then it would have to wait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned back again to face Hermione. She was gazing past
      him at the horizon with an impassive face, and he realized it had
      probably been a minute or two since she'd finished her oath and he
      had yet to say a word. "Um, you know, I think future historians
      might mark this year as the epoch of a new era. Like, we might
      literally be in the future's 'Year One' <em class="calibre9">right now</em>. That's
      kinda crazy, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young witch didn't turn her head. "That must have been quite
      the internal monologue, Mr. Potter. Almost four minutes without
      acknowledging your surroundings. Seems a bit excessive, even for
      <em class="calibre9">you</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry froze where he stood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A roguish grin crossed Hermione's face, and she giggled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment, Harry chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then both were laughing, and all was right with the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">"Thank you</em>, Hermione," Harry said. "Sorry, I really
      should've said that immediately. I guess I sort of, um, distracted
      myself." He smiled sheepishly. "But you really <em class="calibre9">did</em> say
      just exactly what I needed to hear. You were right, I feel much
      less nervous now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The smile left Hermione's face. "I should hope so." Her voice
      grew a bit cold, took on a sardonic tinge, and her aura drew back
      and diminished until it faded away entirely. "I specifically wrote
      that oath in order to elicit a profusion of happiness and hope
      within your mind, to bring you to an emotional apogée. There's
      nowhere left to go from here but <em class="calibre9">down</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A chill went down Harry's spine then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An intimation of something dreadful approaching.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A creeping terror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An unmistakably familiar sense of <em class="calibre9">doom</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes widened in sudden horror, then his face contorted
      into a snarl. <em class="calibre9">"Voldemort.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's lips twisted into a discordantly mirthless grin.
      "Indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">"How dare you use her for -"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not an unreasonable assumption," Hermione's voice interrupted,
      "but no, I did not resurrect her to use as a host. In fact, I never
      resurrected her in the first place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">"What?</em> But -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your subjective experience of the past 36 hours has, in
      reality, taken place over the course of approximately 15 minutes."
      Hermione's hand raised in a broad sweeping gesture, out towards the
      hills and lakes and trees far below "This is naught but an
      exceptionally intricate False Memory Charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was staring at the form of Hermione as though she'd just
      turned into a cat. "That <em class="calibre9">can't</em> be true, it takes just as
      long to create a False Memory Charm as it takes to create a true
      memory! And I was <em class="calibre9">making choices</em> and
      <em class="calibre9">problem-solving!</em> I was <em class="calibre9">thinking!</em> I <em class="calibre9">am</em>
      thinking, <em class="calibre9">right now!</em> There's <em class="calibre9">no way</em> you could've
      faked my thought-processes so accurately that I'd mistake your
      fabrications for my own reactions! And, and how could you
      <em class="calibre9">possibly</em> fake <em class="calibre9">entire conversations?</em> All those
      people were <em class="calibre9">responding to what I said,</em> and their responses
      were <em class="calibre9">specific</em> and <em class="calibre9">coherent!</em> That's just absurd!
      'Exceptionally intricate' doesn't cut it as an explanation! You'd
      have to be a -" Harry stopped abruptly, and his heart wrenched as
      his mind brought forth a memory from what felt like another
      lifetime.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm well aware of exactly how proficient I am at mental magics,
      Mr. Potter." A satisfied smile flickered for a moment over
      Hermione's face, but it died away swiftly. "This is, in all
      likelihood, the most intricate False Memory Charm to have ever been
      crafted by any wizard, living or dead. I purposefully orchestrated
      my stay in the Hogwarts infirmary to ensure that I would have time
      enough to complete it. The script called for multiple branching
      points to account for your most likely reactions, though I ensured
      that your options would be constrained enough to prevent you from
      taking us off the rails and breaking the illusion. Your
      conversations were credible because they were actual conversations;
      I maintained a connection to your mind through Legilimency and
      performed every role myself. There was a hard limit on how much I
      could accelerate your cognition, but as a disembodied spirit I was
      under no such limitations and could freely accelerate to the point
      that you appeared to be at a standstill, allowing me to perform
      multiple roles simultaneously. Your thoughts have been your own
      because the memory is being written onto your brain at precisely
      the same speed as your mind is operating." Hermione's head turned
      east towards the sun. "And if I've timed it right, your mind should
      begin slowing back down right about <em class="calibre9">now.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sun began to rise noticeably faster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wisps of cloud formed and dissipated at an alarming rate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the color drained out of the world, and Harry was plunged
      into darkness.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
