<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 1</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle and Battle Magic 2 (Non canon)"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was deep in the darkening forest an hour early and an hour
      later than he would have like to be. An hour of preparation was
      sufficient but two would have ensured the utterly overwhelming
      victory that he wanted to achieve tonight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thomas Chang was proving to be a capable opponent. The boy had
      natural skills and unusual magic from his homeland. He was also an
      exceptional student. Tom was surprised how quickly the boy was
      learning and adapting to Tom's style, or lack of particular style.
      The last Battle Magic meet had come far too close to a tie for
      Tom's liking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The key to an overwhelming defeat is often battlefield
      preparation…</em> Tom thought as he walked around the thick patches
      of trees towards the open area near the cliff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked up at the overhanging rocks that cropped out from the
      side of the cliff and tapped his cheek with his finger for a moment
      before moving on to observe what else he had to work with…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a few bits of his unique and "controversial" magic it was
      time. Tom had not finished completing even half of his traps but
      that couldn't be helped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had made sure to work Professor Slughorn up so much during
      potions that the man had doubled the length of the essay on
      wormwood which he was demanding by tomorrow. Tom knew Chang was far
      too ambitious about his formal education to risk leaving it undone.
      This had given Tom the insurance that Chang himself wouldn't show
      up early while preparations were being made. Yet Chang was also far
      too ambitious about his informal education to be late for a good
      fight. So Tom had to wrap things up and go to meet the boy at the
      predetermined spot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom found that rules often made things less interesting. Even
      still, for something like this there were some required guidelines.
      Obviously you do not talk about Battle Magic. More importantly, you
      do not talk about Battle Magic. You also have to do your best to
      not actually kill your opponent, unless you have a reliable way of
      resurrecting them. Tom had added that last part "as a joke" but in
      truth he had hoped that Chang would know some secret. Some key
      piece of information from his homeland that could lead down the
      right path. Some hint which he would offer up without having to be
      asked directly. The boy either knew no such secret, or he was
      keeping it guarded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The last rule was that apart from the three previous rules, that
      there were no rules. Once 8pm hit and the opponents met in the
      field nearly anything was allowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom did not bother to disillusion himself as he walked down the
      slope. It was a futile effort against his opponent's superb "sense"
      of magic. Tom hoped that same sense would become a disadvantage
      later on when it came to trapping the boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The slope wasn't very steep, but it would do. Tom would force
      Chang to fight him uphill, funneling him towards the prepared
      locations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle stopped mid stride. He flicked his wrist at his side
      and his wand was in his hand as though it had always been there.
      There had been <em class="calibre7">something</em> which had alerted him to a
      presence nearby, some faint whiff of strong magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom felt his magic start to flow like the blood in his veins.
      Subtle wards were starting to form on his around him on instinct
      without any real conscious thought on his part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone was approaching rapidly but there was no sound or hint
      of hidden magic. Tom raised his wand as thoughts and curses flashed
      across the front of his mind for a moment before it clicked and he
      comprehended what he was sensing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Prey…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a different kind of magic, something that Chang surely
      thought would catch his opponent off guard. It probably would have
      if his opponent was not also an animagus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom casually yawned and paid no attention to the creature
      approaching on his left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The squirrel climbed up the trunk of a tree near Tom and
      ascended rapidly. It made its way up and onto a branch high above
      Tom's head and perched itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">After all my preparation is it really going to be this
      easy?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several things happened at once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chang the Squirrel leapt down from the tree towards Tom just as
      Tom raised his wand to line up the animal and start to shout an
      incantation. Chang the student suddenly appeared as a whisp of
      smoke on the wind several feet behind Tom and immediately aimed his
      wand point blank and fired a glowing orange bolt at his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no time to comprehend what was happening. There were
      just raw facts flashing through his mind in the brief moment before
      the screaming jet struck him down. <em class="calibre7">Chang was the squirrel, now
      he is not and he has taken my rear. I cannot dodge his spell this
      close and it's too powerful to try and overcome this
      quickly.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom's wand was still in the air and trained on the squirrel
      falling towards him. He took control of the animal's flight with
      his wand and swung it around mid-air with a gesture that he put all
      of his body weight behind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bolt of orange light hit the squirrel as it came around and
      Tom used his momentum to throw himself to the side and away from
      the resulting explosion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He lost his balance and fell onto the ground flat on his back.
      He did not have time to get up or re position himself; Chang was
      quickly rounding on him and preparing another curse. Tom wildly
      swept his wand horizontal at the boy's legs and a crimson strand of
      barbed wire lashed out, threatening to wrap the boy's legs in its
      barbs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What! He's enhanced his speed somehow…</em> Tom realized as
      Chang leapt clear over the fiery rope and grabbed onto a branch
      overhead. He then swung himself out of range of the spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I would be impressed if I hadn't already thought of that
      myself. I shouldn't have been so arrogant as to hold back.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom rotated the bronze ring on his finger three times quickly
      and muttered, "Augendae." The runes inscribed in the ring turned
      bright white for a moment and then faded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't know what magic Chang was using to enhance his speed
      but there were disadvantages to all of them and he could find
      Chang's and exploit it. Tom's device would only provide bursts of
      speed for a limited time, but it let him move faster and more
      fluidly then Chang was currently able to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom raised his wand and twisted it back and forth, which caused
      it to issue a large wall of electric arcs towards Chang. The boy
      was already moving away in an unpredictable pattern. Dodging the
      curse and coming towards Tom with purpose. There was no time to
      level his wand; Tom knew Chang was closing in to fight hand to
      hand. The boy had a clear advantage yet when it came to that type
      of fight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom kept using bursts of speed to avoid Chang's rapid approach
      but he could not use any proper magic on him with at this pace. The
      boy was forcing Tom into a fist fight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If I'm to be forced into anything it will be on my
      terms…</em> Tom conceded. His wand disappeared from his hand and he
      met Chang head on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy was throwing a flurry of punches and kicks at Tom's head
      and body. The movements were so fast that branches on trees nearby
      were flailing wildly. The extra speed that he had was only giving
      him a slight advantage over Chang's superior technique and
      intuition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can't keep this speed up as long as he can…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom deliberately let himself get hit with a particularly hard
      side kick to the ribs and stumbled a few steps towards where a
      large boulder stuck up from the earth. As expected Chang pressed on
      looking for a finish, but when he went to throw another kick at Tom
      he found that his opponent wasn't as badly hurt as he seemed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom instantly regained his composure and caught the kick in the
      air as he was falling. He concentrated and focused his mind, body
      and magic into one, then again used his body's momentum and magic
      in concert to throw Chang into the boulder with enough force to
      shake the ground slightly. Chang had started to protect himself in
      flight but his shield had not had time to fully form and the boy
      took most of the blow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He fell to the ground, landing in an awkward position. He gave a
      raspy groan and his wand rolled away from him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm not about to underestimate him yet again…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom rapidly fired several curses at his fallen opponent. Within
      moments the boy was stunned, paralyzed, bound completely and
      secured to the boulder naked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm disappointed that none of my original plans came to
      fruition. Though I cannot deny I enjoyed this spontaneous battle
      more than I would have liked shooting fish in a barrel.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom brought Chang back around with a word and gesture but the
      boy seemed groggy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" Chang asked. His head was down and drool
      dribbled down his chin when he spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That is what I want to know…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You lost. I might add that it was rather one sided from the
      beginning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Chang groaned in response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you submit then?" Tom asked him as he threateningly poked at
      the boys belly with his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright then, that's that." Tom dispelled the boy's binds with
      another wave and clothed him with another. Chang was far too
      instilled with "honor" to continue the attack after a formal
      submission. More importantly his power was clearly depleted and he
      was no longer much of a threat either way so Tom asked him, "Do you
      require mending?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." He was prodding at himself with his wand and wincing with
      the effort the healing spells took. The boy was obviously drained
      far more then he should have been from the fight alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A potion then…</em> Tom concluded. He shook his head
      slightly in disapproval. A potion for speed was a poor method to
      use in what could have easily been a drawn out fight. Obviously
      Chang had thought that he would win a quick and overwhelming
      victory himself with whatever animagus magic he had used.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were a squirrel, and then you were a man but the squirrel
      was still there. You possessed it somehow." Tom didn't make it a
      question, nor did he direct it at Chang. He wasn't about to reveal
      just how he knew that Chang had been in the animal but he suspected
      the boy could guess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is close enough to the truth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Obviously I'd have to torture his secret from him and it's
      too early to try anything of that nature… No matter. I will learn
      in due course.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know why you lost?" Tom lectured the boy who was still
      massaging aches from his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I underestimated you." Chang replied instantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Always. That is not the single point of failure here
      however…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The potion…" Chang offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, that's another thing." Tom stared at him waiting for the
      boy to continue to list his failures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you increase your own speed so greatly? Some spell?"
      Chang asked him. Tom felt his wand twitch in his hand, the boy was
      in no position to take over questioning at this point. He took a
      breath and relaxed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is close enough to the truth." Tom would normally share a
      small secret like that with the boy, but if he was unwilling to
      participate in a trade then he would get nothing of true value from
      Tom tonight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom took on a more condescending tone as he went on. "You played
      to your strengths which is well and good, but you solely relied on
      your physical prowess. If you had attacked me with magic while
      pressing the attack I may have been overwhelmed. You were far too
      confident in one particular skill and neglected to use your others.
      This allowed me to use your advantage to my advantage, though I
      would have found a way regardless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was looking down at the boy as he talked and when he
      finished he felt a smirk cross his face briefly. He could tell that
      Chang had been properly shamed. That was one of the things Tom
      liked about him, the boy had deep humility ingrained in him. The
      boy's rigid set of internal moral rules made him very predictable
      with his general behavior, he would be easy to mold into any shape
      Tom wished to form him to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was lifting his fork to his mouth the next morning at the
      breakfast table when Headmaster Dippet stood up and asked for
      attention. "It seems there were some unsettling events in the
      forbidden forest last night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom casually glanced up at Dippet for a moment before pretending
      to return attention to his food. He made sure not to look towards
      Dumbledore, there was no need to. Tom was sure that the man was
      already looking at him. He bit the glowing blue end off of his
      sausage and moved some food around on his plate as he listened and
      calculated any implications of possible statements about to be
      made.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a show of highly unusual and never before documented
      behavior it seems that a number of our resident Acromantula took it
      upon themselves to construct an elaborate maze of thick magical
      webbing deep in the forest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I should have undone my work immediately instead of planning
      to build upon it for next week… That was an obvious mistake in
      retrospect, but possibly not a fatal one.</em> Tom mentally kicked
      himself as he bit into a piece of toast and chuckled once along
      with a couple others next to him at some joke he hadn't really
      heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A number of creatures are caught in the webbing and need to be
      cut free. We would be offering extra credit in care for magical
      creature's classes for students help in efforts to take down this
      mess… However…" Headmaster Dippet paused in hesitation which seemed
      to bring the noise level of the room down to zero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For some reason a vast majority of the snakes in the forest
      have migrated into a small cave system nearby… This is also very
      strange behavior which we do not know the meaning of. It is a
      question for experts better than I quite frankly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Obviously I cannot make contact with my team now. I cannot
      go anywhere near there… I must speak with Chang and learn all I can
      of his own animagus powers… I need to issue commands to my servants
      from within the school somehow.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dippet was still going on, now about a potential rock slide
      hazard also in the forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom continued chewing and risked glancing at the staff's
      reactions to this news. He let his gaze move across the entire
      table quickly. He noted confusion, a little fear, and even some
      excitement. He also noted that Dumbledore was doing his best to
      mentally break Tom's head open for the secrets to spill out like a
      howler for all to hear. Tom disregarded this as he was far too used
      to it and went back to his meal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as he went for another sausage Dumbledore stood up. Tom
      didn't see it but he could <em class="calibre7">feel</em> it, the man was about to
      speak with authority.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would just like to make an unrelated note following the
      Headmasters comments." Tom looked up at the man again, and
      Dumbledore was still looking in Tom's direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am afraid that our delicious blue sausages are being
      discontinued from our menu."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This statement was met with much confusion and little
      complaint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The elf in charge of that particular recipe is retiring and
      requests to take his secret with him, and I feel happy to oblige as
      it is a small request."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore took a seat and people started muttering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does that have to do with anything? Who cares?" Some
      ignorant girl asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I bet the elf was responsible for the incidents in the forest
      so they had to fire it." One voice near him said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If a house elf goes off on its own like that the proper
      response is to kill it." Tom recognized MacNair's voice this
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked down at his fork and the remaining sausage he was
      about to eat had disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That seemed extraordinarily petty on Dumbledore's part. It also
      made Tom question just what Dumbledore really knew about
      everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't help his thinking; it was tainted with annoyance
      over this petty issue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Small scale warfare, is that the way of it old man? I don't
      think that's a battle you want to pick with me regardless of what
      you believe you know…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom picked up some bacon and bit into it, pretending that it was
      his favorite food.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It just wasn't the same…</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
