<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Orders of Magnitude - Orders of Magnitude: Prologue – Strange Loops</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Orders of Magnitude"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter -1: Prologue, Strange Loops</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6"><b class="calibre7"><i class="calibre8">The Dark Lord had won.</i></b></p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">June 13, 1992. 20:43:24<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre8">Hogwarts
      Castle</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Stone instantiated in Lord Voldemort’s hand, glistening
      coldly in the reflected light of the mirror, free from any
      imperfection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A quick flick of the wrist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A swift twitch of the finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A deafening crash of a pistol firing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry’s eyes barely had a chance to widen before the bullet
      entered his forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy Who Lived was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The entirety of his being; his mind, unprotected by Horcrux or
      ritual or saved state, was currently settling onto the ground, a
      red mist of gore, bone, and brain. The remainder was stuck to the
      walls behind the Mirror, (the Mirror itself being perfectly
      unblemished), or still clung desperately to the inside of his
      ruined skull. The chamber still echoed with the discharge of the
      weapon, but Lord Voldemort was already gone, willing to take no
      chances with what might happen upon the Boy’s death.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Sagittarius A*<br class="calibre4"/>
      Now, Before, Later</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore emerged from the tunnel. His world was all worlds.
      His world was fire. His world was void. His world was formless
      nothing. His world was stagnant death. He focused all his being
      onto the two worlds that mattered. In one, the star burned,
      rendering the world insane, its very soul raging with white plasma
      that rendered such abstract notions as space and time irrelevant in
      the face of the heat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked across the span of eons into the other world, wherein
      the Boy Who Lived was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had all of eternity to rehearse the ritual, and yet, he still
      felt the slightest bit of nervousness. He began, using the Line of
      Merlin to harness the magic of all worlds into this one final act.
      He was Dumbledore, destroyer of worlds, creator of life. Everything
      that ever was and everything that ever will be in the universe had
      led him to this moment. This moment that must come to pass because
      it already has.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All worlds had narrowed to two, and from those two all worlds
      would be born. When the Line of Merlin could bear the strain no
      longer, it glowed white, and began to fray apart at the edges.
      Dumbledore could feel the eyes of prophecy in the heavens upon him,
      about to be torn apart by the ritual of Harry’s creation. The
      Headmaster connected the nodes in his mind, and it was done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sagitarrius A* collapsed in less than a second. It folded in
      upon itself, and distorting the very fabric of reality as it did
      so. In the final moments of its life, the Headmaster flitted
      through some dimension that only exists in the minds of addled
      physics professors, and emerged to the place Beyond Time, where he
      was connected by the power of the ritual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the world he left behind, a galaxy was born. A galaxy where
      the balance of the world was held in place by a single thread of
      time, a universe where the only means by which the Crux could
      succeed was to seek the path of the Scorpion and the Archer. The
      fires of prophecy would burn with the white light of truth; they
      had come to be because they had come to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He entered a world that was already born, a world where the
      balance of the world was held in place by a single thread of time
      that had, until now, been snipped. It was at this very moment that
      he emerged. He was outside the Mirror. No, he was inside? It was a
      curious sensation, experiencing time backwards. He took a brief
      moment to consider the runes that had once been incomprehensible to
      him. He smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inside and outside the Mirror, the world was hazy, a confounded
      miasma of abstraction, like some sort of halfway lucid dream that
      someone had pressed the rewind button on. His brother took the
      stone from him. Not from him. From his shadowform. It was not him?
       He was talking to his brother. But it wasn’t him. He was
      saying the war was over. They had won. That was true, no? It was
      Time. Time to stop holding on to the stone. Give away the stone.
      Yes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You could change the past, you just had to think about it at the
      right time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he moved further backwards in time, he considered the tools
      of his craft that he still had upon his person. The Line of Merlin.
      The Stone of Permanence. The Elder Wand. A curious glass
      bottle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A curious glass bottle of viscous black ichor.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Mid-Fall, 1999</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Wilbraham, Massachusetts</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Everett, was that you?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah Snipes was cleaning dishes in the kitchen when she heard
      the crack. Or was it a pop? It was probably just her husband
      playing around in his lab. He was a compounding pharmacist, and
      owned his own store, so he often experimented with different
      formulations of various creams or pastes to sell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it were, Everett Snipes was not in his laboratory. Rather, he
      was in his study. “Yes, dear. One of my vials popped a cork,” he
      yelled a blatant lie back to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Okay, well make sure to clean it up before you let Lily in
      there. She’s at that age, you know?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As if on cue, Lily burst in through the study door, her hair all
      fire and curls, her eyes an angry emerald-green. She had all the
      energy of a five-year old, and all of the precociousness as well.
      She stared at her dad who was sitting on the Comfy Chair, and the
      strange man sitting on the Chair That Mom Yells At Me When I Climb
      On. “Hi Daddy. Hi Mister Man. Guess what? I learned what a Quine
      was today in school. I bet you don’t know what a Quine is, Mister
      Man.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She glared at the stranger. He considered for a moment, then
      replied, “If I did not, then this statement would be a lie.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She paused, thought for a moment, then giggled. “You’re funny,
      Mister Man. But you’ve got a girl’s hair.” At this, he self
      consciously adjusted his ponytail. To break the ensuing silence, he
      reached over and grabbed the thick glass bottle filled with viscous
      black ichor, and placed it into his suit pocket. It created an
      awkward lump in his figure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I hope that you know, ah, ‘Everett’–”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily cut in, “His name’s Daddy, you know!”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Well, I hope that you know, ‘Daddy’, that I truly understand
      the gravity of this intrusion. And I hope that you understand that
      my need is proportionate.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everett nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stranger spoke again, “I would tell you that what you have
      done today would honor my mother’s memory more than anything else
      you’ve done in your life. But,” he looked at Lily who had already
      grown bored, and was splayed out on the floor, playing idly with
      the rug. He smiled, widely, “I see that this is not true.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everett smiled, genuinely. “Thank you.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Besides, I have a gift for you in return. A bottle of my own
      magic that will hopefully aid you in your life’s quest,” at this,
      the stranger produced a plastic bottle from an extendable space
      within his robes, and handed it to Everett, who looked at the
      label.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Head and Shoulders</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everett laughed. “Drop dead.”</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Early Fall, 1999<br class="calibre4"/>
      The Tower</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had informed the Shichinin that, especially considering to
      whom they were delivering the message, that they were to not under
      any circumstances, read its contents. Which of course, meant,
      especially considering to whom they were delivering the message,
      that they absolutely were going to be reading its contents. In
      fact, they didn’t even wait to leave the Tower before they ripped
      open the envelope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been quite some time since they had a good old fashioned,
      film noir-esque missing person search. And the person that they
      were looking for? Oh, this was going to be spectacular.
      Unfortunately, they were slightly underwhelmed (although a bit
      intrigued), at the contents of the message.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">“Bahl’s Stupefaction. 1 week.”</i></p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">King’s Cross<br class="calibre4"/></i><i class="calibre8">Outside Time</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">“No,” said Albus Dumbledore. “No, no, NO! ”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The building sense of power rose to an unbearable peak, and then
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then, there was nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He lay facedown, listening to the silence. He was perfectly
      alone. Nobody else was there. A long time later, or maybe no time
      at all, it came to him that he must exist, must be more than
      disembodied thought, because he had a sense of touch, and the thing
      against which he lay existed too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat up. His body appeared unscathed. He touched his face. He
      was not wearing glasses anymore. His beard was gone. As were the
      wrinkles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus turned slowly on the spot, and his surroundings seemed to
      invent themselves before his eyes. A wide-open space, bright and
      clean. He was the only person there, except for–</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He recoiled. He spotted him sitting on a bench, idly reading a
      curiously thick book. Tom Riddle. He seemed thoroughly unconcerned
      with the situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“He cannot hurt you.” He spun around. Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres was walking towards him, sprightly and upright,
      wearing sweeping robes over a Muggle suit.  “Prophecy has
      proven true. I have come to rescue you, Headmaster.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Harry. You have… You have aged. How long has it been?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Oh, about 20,000 years, objectively. Subjectively? Well, for
      you, it’s been but a few seconds, has it not?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“It has, but I am trapped outside of Time. I would fear for
      you, but you are The Crux, the Once and Future King. You
      do not carry the look of sadness about you, which lightens my heart
      greatly. Dare I ask if you have succeeded? Did you tear apart the
      very stars in heaven to save its people?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Ah… Well…. Not quite.” Harry tittered on his feet a bit, “In
      fact, we’re not really out of the woods just yet.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I confess, I do not understand. But then again, that is more
      than fair turnabout. Would you do an old man the honor of
      explaining what I must do?”</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">King’s Cross<br class="calibre4"/>
      Later</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster’s head was still reeling from the enormity of the
      plan. But, then again, it fit with all the prophecies. For the
      first time since Nicholas Flamel had bequeathed upon him the Words
      of the First Enchanter that unlocked the keys to the entire Web of
      Prophecy, things began to make sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“We have a final pair of gifts to give you, that I suspect you
      will greatly need.” Harry removed from his robes a thin stone rod,
      “The Line of Merlin Unbroken.” Harry handed the Headmaster the wand
      with reverence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle stood up from the bench, put down his book, and
      strode forward. “And, Headmaster, my old enemy and future friend, I
      also have a gift for you.” He produced a thick glass bottle filled
      with viscous black ichor, and handed it to Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore understood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Headmaster,” Harry spoke, “You need to understand something.
      You have a choice at this moment. All worlds, ultimately, have
      narrowed down to this one choice. Although I am, as you say, the
      Crux, you still must make this choice of your own volition. You
      would be sacrificing your Life, and your Time. Truly.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Harry. You know my views on this matter. I have already
      sacrificed my Life and my Time once for your sake, for the sake of
      the world. Besides, you are the Boy Who Lived. I’m sure you’ll find
      a way to rescue me again.” He smiled with a twinkle in his eye.
      “Now, how do I leave this place?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Oh yes,” Harry smiled at him. “We are in King’s Cross, are we
      not? I think that if you decided to move on, you would be able to…
      Let’s say.. Board a train.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“And where would it take me?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Beyond.” said Harry simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Goodbye, Headmaster. And thank you, truly.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Do not pity the dead, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres. Pity
      those who live without love.” And with that, he boarded a train,
      and disappeared into the tunnel.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">eltsaC strawgoH<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre8">72:34:02 .2991, 13
      enuJ</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy Who Lived was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry’s eyes barely had a chance to widen before the bullet
      entered his forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A deafening crash of a pistol firing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A swift twitch of the finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A quick flick of the wrist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Stone instantiated in Lord Voldemort’s hand, glistening
      coldly in the reflected light of the mirror, covered in a viscous
      black ichor.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><b class="calibre7"><i class="calibre8">The Dark Lord was laughing.</i></b></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
