<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Orders of Magnitude - Orders of Magnitude, Chapter 24: The Fault in Our Stars</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Orders of Magnitude"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 24: The Fault in Our Stars</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Hogwarts<br class="calibre4"/>
      May 19, 1999</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Merlin studied Harry closely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And turned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And left.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Having seen what he came to see, Merlin strode down the steps of
      the Astronomy Tower, feeling the intricacies of his Lines, the “Ley
      Lines”, as they directed him towards the familiar hallways on the
      Seventh floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ah, yes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Room of Requirement was likely the most secure possible
      location within Hogwarts, but it was still insufficient. It, as
      with all things, ultimately bent to his Will. The walls separated,
      opening obligingly for him, and the Cup of Dawn stood flickering on
      the desk that lay within. It reminded him of his last visit to
      Hogwarts, roughly six hundred years ago, when he had claimed the
      girl who called herself Nell, and formed The Three.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Within moments, he was heading down the stairs, following the
      din of battle, looking for a Wizard, any Wizard, and the first he
      saw was a young man with dirty blonde hair and Gryffindor
      robes. Merlin commanded him silently, holding out the Goblet of
      Fire. Without words, he conveyed the intent of the contract between
      them:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">I, Merlin of the Line, solemnly swear to bind your Will for
      the remainder of your days. The penalty if I should fail to do so
      or if I set you free will be the irrevocable destruction of the
      artifact of power responsible for enforcing this
      contract. </i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Do you agree?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard nodded, meekly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Then you are free to go.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that, Merlin dissipated into a white mist and took his
      leave of Hogwarts. As he faded to nothingness, The Cup of Dawn, the
      Holy Grail, the Goblet of Fire, the last remaining anchor of
      Yanotuk of the Cups, purged itself in a glorious conflagration, and
      its presence in the world of Magic was no more.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Nurmengard</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Heh… heh…  You have come. You who are marked by lightning
      and who shall tear apart the stars,” the broken form of Gellert
      Grindelwald rasped. “I know what you seek. It will not work as you
      think it should; its true Master has passed from this world
      centuries ago.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Merlin paid him no mind, and scanned the walls of the prison
      cell. “Hidden in plain sight, I see.” He took the unassuming wooden
      cross from the wall, and unfolded it. “But you are wrong, Mr.
      Grindelwald. Its true Master has simply yet to claim it.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald observed unflinchingly as the Cross expanded into
      unseen dimensions, a shape of limitless possibility and infinite
      connection, a shape with the potential to reach across Time and
      Space to ensure that life could be preserved. He was awed, but
      also bitter: he knew the ways of Dark Lords. Because he had
      been allowed to see this much, it either meant that either he or
      the beauty he was witnessing would soon be destroyed. He did
      not allow himself the luxury of Hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As if in response to the unanswered question,
      Merlin answered, “You will not die at my hand, Gellert
      Grindelwald.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He forced out a chuckle. “I see. You play tricks with words,
      stranger. How then, shall I die this day?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Merlin was satisfied with the preparations, he turned to
      the former tyrant. “No tricks. You will live through the
      Transmigration, and perhaps if you are lucky, you will live long
      enough to have the opportunity to save the ones you love.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grindelwald’s eyes narrowed. “And what do you know of the ones I
      love?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Do you know of Gabriel’s Horn?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Non-sequiturs. Of course, the stranger would not provide a
      straight answer. Why would he? Grindelwald had no choice but
      to play along. “With which the Archangel announces Judgement Day,
      no?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Yes, that too. But it is also, a shape, an impossible shape: a
      horn that holds a finite volume but has an infinite surface area.
      In truth, any impossible shape would have sufficed, but I felt the
      metaphor was quite apt.” A moment of silence passed as
      Merlin observed the Cross unfolding itself from all
      dimensions, withdrawing its influence. It was
      desperately trying to follow its master’s command, to form a
      shape that could not exist. It stretched, ever onward, ever upward,
      thinner and thinner, until after an indeterminate amount of time,
      the Cross simply ceased to exist; it had stretched far enough into
      the infinite as to be fundamentally, irrevocably inaccessible from
      this world or any world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, the last anchor of Neirkalatia of the Cross, once
      known as Natalie Kyros, and once known before that by an even more
      ancient name, had purged itself in a tangle of geometric
      impossibility, and its presence in the world of Magic was no
      more.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Boston. New York. Mexico City. Sao Paolo. Lagos. Shanghai.
      Delhi. Moscow. Tokyo. London.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">City after city, Merlin arrived, summoning the remaining armies
      of the Unseelie, leading them as their Lord and master. The leji
      retracted their claws from the amygdala of their prey, the bundiwig
      halted their ceaseless devouring, the viscs unfolded their wings
      and swooped lazily down at his beck and call, and the gaunts let
      loose a low wail of anguish at a Sharpening cut short.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their Master called and they must obey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They followed him through the space in between space, until he
      had collected them all. It was time to go home.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">On the shores of the lake of teeth, where the black hills
      end, Tír inna n-Óc</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unfettered by mere physical boundaries, the Unseelie celebrated
      the Gorging, blissfully unaware of their impending end. The
      many-toothed maw of the Lake opened itself, and Merlin stepped
      inside, traversing a staircase of compacted sinew, feces, and bone.
      Deeper he travelled, into the heart of Tír inna n-Óc, until he
      found the Sleeper himself, Nog-Nandh of the Flame, trapped in
      eternal nightmare, endlessly punishing himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a simple exertion of Merlin’s will, a thought was burned
      indelibly into the mind of the sleeping titan, one which removed
      the leaden chains of guilt: “It was <strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">my</em></strong>
      fault.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Adnan Nejem slowly roused from his slumber, the world that he
      had created by sheer force of Will began to crumble around them; it
      was a world whose sole purpose was to inflict a punishment that was
      no longer necessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the surface of Tír inna n-Óc, the hate-spires began to melt,
      and the oppressive yellow fog that had blanketed the landscape at
      this time of morning-night unrolled, allowing for clear sight
      across the horizon for the first time in millennia. The Unseelie
      which had gathered could now see, in full horror, the destruction
      of their home. The House of Fingers closed itself, taking with it
      vast chunks of landscape as it retracted into the arms of
      Nog-Nandh, who was stretching, rubbing his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Archway on the Island of Woe crumbled to dust, and with it,
      the Lake of Teeth drained into the Unclean Maw, which opened for
      the last time as the Sleeper yawned. There was no escape for the
      Unseelie, who had taken refuge in the Amygdalan Temple. But as the
      last echoes of fear ebbed from the mind of Adnan Nejem, this too
      was no more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Sleeper awoke from his slumber. The horror-realm he had
      created, the last remaining anchor of Nog-Nandh of the Flame,
      purged itself in a fire of redemption, and its presence in the
      world of Magic was no more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tír inna n-Óc ceased to endure.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Tower<br class="calibre4"/>
      December 25, 1999<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was almost time. Merlin was alone now, watching
      expectantly as the spider-like cracks spread across the surface of
      the Mirror. He felt the lines dissolve as wands began to break, as
      all of their arts ceased, and the blood of Atlantis failed. When
      the cracks reached the edge of the Mirror, it shattered with a
      noise that silenced the world, and the Transmigration began.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">A Dying World<br class="calibre4"/>
      Now, Then, Later</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world was empty, except for Merlin, and a tiny spherical
      silver ship half a galaxy away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stars were beautiful. Redemption was at hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world would die, this was true, but the world’s peoples
      would live on. After all, there can only be one king upon the
      chessboard. There can only be one piece whose value is beyond
      price.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For indeed, the fires of the soul are great and burn as bright
      as the stars: 100 billion stars in the galaxy. 100 billion lives
      created and lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he sensed the craft draw closer and closer to the event
      horizon, he went about his work, one life at a time. There were too
      many to return all at once; the rebuilt world was not yet ready to
      support that. But a handful, a select few, he chose to rise again,
      moments before the Transmigration. The rest would be kept safe,
      shepherded through Time and history by the Line of Merlin
      Unbroken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the end of it all, there was one final star that was to be
      extinguished: Sagitarrius A*, the terminus of the Path of the
      Scorpion and Archer. Merlin observed Dumbledore arriving through
      the tunnel, as he observed all moments: the Fall of
      Atlantis, the Transmigration, and the Death of his World.
      Later. Then. Now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held out the Line for but an instant, a fractional
      moment in time as the star collapsed into a singularity and
      all the points became one.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Albion<br class="calibre4"/>
      24,001 B.C.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Merlin emerged on the back end of eternity, his Will nearly
      broken, his Life nearly lost. He desperately reached out backward
      across the span of Time, but he knew what the result would be.
      Nothing. What he created should have been Paradise. Instead, it was
      Hell. They were gone, all of them, and he had no one to blame but
      himself. No one was left to blame but himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked forward into the depths of Time, and what he saw
      horrified him further. So many were already dead at his hand, but
      there were to be more. Countless more. Billions more. With every
      day that passed, the Curse that now bound this world and all worlds
      would grow. New lives would be created, lives so unbelievably,
      horrifyingly, tragically short. There was nothing he could do to
      save them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not yet, at least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had looked through Time once more, and in that instant of
      calculation, he embraced all possible futures and saw only one. The
      world must be unbound. The world must be sacrificed for the sake of
      all other worlds. There was no other way. How could there be? This
      was his burden, and every moment wasted, a new tragedy was
      born.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
