<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Orders of Magnitude - Orders of Magnitude: Chapter 1 – Put Your Little Hand in Mine</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Orders of Magnitude"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Put Your Little Hand in Mine</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">February 1, XX,XXX</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the moment the world began to die, few people felt it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even fewer knew they could do something about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even fewer still had the requisite skills or knowledge to act on
      that knowledge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And even fewer still had the technology that could harness those
      skills into something useful for this particular situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so there were twelve.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Earlier</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the ultimate weapon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would decisively, conclusively, and immediately end the war,
      that secret war that had been waged since time immemorial. The
      enemy would be irrevocably destroyed, defeated in detail,
      sacrificed to the cause of the righteous. Of course, there were the
      doomsayers, proclaiming that the hubris of the project would end us
      all. It was hard to claim John was hubristic, however, when he
      subjected his system to every conceivable iteration of failure
      testing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had identified thousands of possible failure points, and
      fixed them all. That left seven distinct failure modes, and
      although they were fundamentally impossible to avoid, John’s team
      was able to decrease their probability to roughly
      one-in-ten-trillion each.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It still wasn’t enough to feel safe. They developed fail safes
      and response protocols to the failure modes, and John had
      personally rehearsed them all. Hundreds of thousands of times.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It still wasn’t enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A one-in-10^88 chance was impossibly small, but it was still
      possible. So there was always the ultimate fail safe. The Line. He
      rubbed his right forearm like a touchstone. An astute observer
      would note that the system actually had but a single point of
      failure, and that was John, but John had personally accounted for
      that, as well. That small portion of his free will was locked away,
      in a place he could only access if they had really and truly
      <i class="calibre8">won</i>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a brief, bemused moment, he thought that the only flaw in
      the system was that the activation sequence wasn’t something more
      dramatic. It should have been a massive switch, or an ominous
      button, or some incantation. But, as it were, it was relatively
      unceremonious. A few keystrokes, and it was done.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The world shuddered.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">No need to panic,</i> he thought himself as he went through
      the motions. He had literally rehearsed this exact scenario at
      least fifteen hundred times, enough to where the movements were
      rote. His team controlled the outputs and inputs and monitored the
      status of the buffer. John did the intense series of on-the-fly
      calculations in order to determine the precise initial vector, and
      after a few tense moments, the variables checked out, and he
      rotated the dial.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In short, they would simply roll the system back an hour, and
      start over. They’d have to triple-check everything. Twice. Each
      day. It would be at least another year before they’d be confident
      enough to try again. But, he’d waited this long. A year was
      trivial.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the dial rotated past the origin, his forearm, which had
      begun to ache since the start of the process, now throbbed in
      earnest.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The world shuddered again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, it was cacophony. The team was visibly agitated.
      Some were even panicked. This didn’t make sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One in ten-trillion is tremendously unlucky. But
      one-in-ten-trillion, squared? Probability analysis goes out
      the window. The question itself changes. It’s no longer, <i class="calibre8">Is this
      just coincidence?</i> No, the question on everyone’s mind was
      simply, W<i class="calibre8">hat the hell is going on? </i> The
      possibility space was endless, but one immediately leaped to mind:
      <i class="calibre8">Sabotage.</i> No matter, he couldn’t spare the thought. He
      needed to focus. They had still rehearsed the failure modes. This
      was still comfortably in the realm of their practice.  But the
      response protocol was drastic enough that everyone was agitated and
      on edge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“The lines, sir. They’ll be–”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Short circuit the whole fucking physical system if you have to.
      The whole thing is fucked anyway! DO IT!”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Sir, this is going to be a destructive read. If we can’t–”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“There’s no other options. Back them. Back them all up.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“If it doesn’t work, we’re all…”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“This is a direct order.”</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The world shuddered as the transmigration began.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">John looked around. His colleagues were the first to go, their
      brains literally vanishing from their skulls, then converted into
      raw data, then pumped back into the system
      via the γ-class L.E. lines. As he scanned this
      displays, he saw the same scene playing out across the entirety of
      the system. If you zoomed out far enough, it didn’t even seem like
      much had changed. No explosions, no catastrophic crashes, nothing
      of that sort. After all most of the systems with the potential for
      catastrophic disaster were managed by the deadminds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But seeing it up close and in person? He had seen people
      die before, very rarely. Usually it was willingly, people who had
      simply grown tired and were ready to “move on”. Idiots. They died
      as they deserved, peacefully but without pomp or fanfare. But these
      people did not will it, and they did not die peacefully. It
      reminded him of a puppet whose strings were cut. All the motive
      power that was keeping the awkward automatons of flesh balanced,
      gone in an instant. Billions, all massacred in the span of a
      moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">John made the snap decision to pipe the data from the payload
      back into the system as it was being constructed. If another
      component failed, he couldn’t risk losing all the data. It would
      divert a small measure of resources, and they would still have the
      physical storage structure to recover the payload.  The only
      downside was the potential for signal degradation; it was almost
      guaranteed that they would lose a few to noise, which would be a
      tragedy, for certain. But it paled in comparison to the possibility
      of losing everything. Besides, you could still recreate them, for
      the most part. The memories might be tricky to reconstruct, but at
      least they’d still be there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">No.</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, there was noise. There was too much noise. Every
      signal was being garbled. Warped beyond recognition. There was
      interference coming from… Somewhere? Only about 1,000 identities
      were piped through, and of those, the only thing left was raw DNA.
       Change of plans.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The payload was already constructed. It existed conceptually, in
      abstract. Now he needed to realize it. The Line was the most secure
      object in the known universe, and it had more than enough capacity
      within its buffer. He did more calculations. It would cut into its
      capabilities significantly. Maybe six hours, tops? It didn’t
      matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He’d saved the people. He didn’t save the world. The world was
      done for, but a world could be recreated easily. No. Not easily, of
      course. Nothing would be easy at this point. The system had failed
      at three separate junctures. This was not chance. Something,
      someone, was responsible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that’s when he saw him. The man who was out of place, out of
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was old.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Old.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one was old anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was his doing. There was no question. In pure reflex, he
      activated his Battle forms. He had even practiced this, fighting
      against countless unseen enemies. But, what good would it do? What
      to do? Fight or flight? What would he be fighting? What was the man
      doing? Those hand gestures were ancient. A past architect? A back
      door? No, the system was sacrosanct. Besides, the man had a tool.
      It was–</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man was holding The Line.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, No, No, no, NO.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flight. It was done. There would be no climactic fight to
      save the world or its people.  It didn’t matter what the old
      man’s motivations were, how he got there, anything.  Any time
      spent thinking about it was time wasted. There was no option left
      but to run, and to rebuild. He’d have to destroy the entire system,
      every last remnant though, to fully rebuild. He began to–</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. No time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn’t have time. He’d have to do that part later. He’d have
      time later, but not now. It was time to run. He didn’t know what
      the old man was capable of, and none of this was rehearsed. He
      committed to the decision, and it was done. It was out of his hands
      now, so he had time to think, wonder, and speculate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Who was the old man? How did he get a copy of The Line? Is it
      even a copy? How will I recover the payload? How much of the system
      would survive? How useful would it be? How will I destroy it? What
      would this new world look like?</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Questions, questions, questions. All the answers would be there,
      eventually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The system was procedurally generating humans as fast as it
      could churn them out. It started with the thousand or so
      genetic patterns it had recovered from the first aborted payload
      attempt. The rest, it built from patterns. Ten million and
      change.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then with all the fury of an exploding star, a new world was
      born.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">John emerged on the back end of eternity.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
