<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Orders of Magnitude - Orders of Magnitude, Chapter 28: If Only In My Dreams</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Orders of Magnitude"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s31" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 28: If Only In My Dreams</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Outside Time</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre8">Outside Time</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Mirror stood, inviolate and whole. Harry watched Dumbledore
      patiently through the Mirror of Noitilov. It stirred echoes within
      his mind of an ancient time, in an ancient place, when he was
      younger so, so much younger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A voice from behind the mirror spoke up. “Why, look at that,”
      the Professor spoke, mimicking history. “I don’t seem to have a
      reflection any more.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From inside the mirror, a voice cried out. “No,” said Albus
      Dumbledore. “No, no, NO! ” Into the hand of Albus Dumbledore flew
      from his sleeve his long, dark-grey wand, and in his other hand, as
      though from nowhere, appeared a short rod of dark stone. Albus
      Dumbledore threw these both violently aside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor stood ready, catching the Line of Merlin as it
      passed over the threshold of the Mirror. In the meantime, the scene
      shifted to a conflagration of fire and light. For a timeless
      moment, the boundaries of the End of Time felt malleable. As the
      star was torn apart, Harry stood up and sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Well, I guess that’s my cue. I’ve got a lot of work to do,
      huh?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I’ve never been one for protracted goodbyes. Besides, it will
      be much, much longer for you than it will be for me. In fact, in
      some ways, this is goodbye, forever.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The exchanged tittles and jots, but Harry wasn’t really fully
      engaged; his attention was diverted elsewhere. He was watching his
      friends through the mirror, knowing that for many of them, it would
      be the last time he saw them as they were.  But most of all,
      he watched Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Well… I’ll see you in another 26,000 years. Or something like
      that,”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, he stepped through the Mirror, and into the
      Tower.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Tower<br class="calibre4"/>
      December 25, 1999, Twelve Hours Later</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the hours waned on, he typed away at the computer terminal,
      making the final preparations. He needed to make sure that after
      the Transmigration, he was well-equipped to continue the problem at
      hand. He was still the Crux, the Once and Future King, and memories
      or no, he was still responsible for the fate of the world. He
      didn’t notice the sounds of the radio in the corner, or the sharp
      pop that reverberated from the Receiving Room moments earlier, or
      the soft rapping at the door to his office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">…Poor old Jim’s white as a ghost, he’s found the answer that
      we lost</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">We’re all weeping now, weeping because, there ain’t nothing
      we can do to protect you…</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rapping grew more insistent. “Enter,” he spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened, and Hermione walked inside. “That’s a rather
      rude way to greet your guests, don’t you think?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was distracted, and he didn’t look up. He was still
      staring at the innumerable lines of code that filled his screen.
      “Huh? Oh. Yeah. Sorry. Uh… Hi Luna.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione coughed. “Hello, Harry.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked up, embarrassed. He stammered a weak apology, and
      turned back to the computer. She looked around the room, distantly
      considering everything. She had a soft, peaceful smile on her face
      as she watched Harry work. He continued to type, type, type away as
      she stood, silent. Eventually, he became self-conscious of her
      presence, and the typing slowed, and eventually stopped, as Harry
      turned around, expectantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said nothing. She walked to where Harry was working,
      leaned over, and turned off his computer monitor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Hermione, wha–”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took his hands, and pulled him up from his seat. Even though
      the gesture was purely symbolic, it did have an effect. Harry felt,
      in some distant way, like he was carrying a great weight around his
      neck. With the monitor switched off, he felt that the weight had
      been temporarily lifted. He looked at Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She still said nothing. Harry looked tired, so very tired. So
      very tired, and so very alone. He had been in a solitary prison of
      his own making, both literally and metaphorically, for many long
      years. Hermione smiled distantly at the soft music echoing from the
      radio.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“This song does seem out of place, doesn’t it?” She
      remarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">…O children, lift up your voice, lift up your
      voice…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She held both his hands, and took a step backward. She started
      to sway her shoulders back and forth in time with the music.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">…O children, rejoice, rejoice…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cocked her head at Harry, who reluctantly joined in. They
      held each other’s hands, moving in an awkward little dance. It
      reminded him a bit of the bumbling fourth-year students that he
      watched at the Yule Ball so long ago during his first year at
      Hogwarts. Harry didn’t dance, no one ever taught him, and he
      certainly had no experience or occasion to practice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn’t seem to mind. She lifted one of his hands up,
      and spun him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">…Hey little train, we’re jumping on, the train that goes to
      the Kingdom</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We’re happy, Ma, we’re having fun, and the train ain’t even
      left the station…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He laughed, silently, as they waltzed around the room, sometimes
      falling completely off-beat with the music which had started to
      pick up in tempo a bit. He felt guilty, though. This was time he
      could be spending working, but he was wasting it on frivolities.
      Hermione seemed to sense this shift in Harry’s emotions, and pulled
      him closer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">…Hey, little train, wait for me, I once was blind but now I
      see</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Have you left a seat for me? Is that such a stretch of the
      imagination…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn’t abandon his quest to save the world. But then again,
      wasn’t she part of that world? The enormity of it all, of the path
      that lay before him and the path that he had already walked down,
      seemed to crash in on him all at once.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was he going to do? He thought back to the ancient times,
      remembering one of their arguments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">“I understand why you did what you did today,” Hermione
      said. “But I want you to promise that from now on, you’ll ask me
      first, always, even if you can come up with a reason why you
      shouldn’t.”</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">There was a pause that stretched, and Hermione could feel
      her heart sinking.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">“Hermione -” Harry started to say.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">“Why? ” The frustration burst out into her voice. “Why is it
      so awful? All you have to do is ask!”</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He did the only thing he could think to do, and buried his head
      in her shoulder and began to cry, softly. They weren’t tears of woe
      or self-pity. They were the angry, hot tears of resolve. He felt
      Hermione’s hand on the top his head, patting his hair gently. He
      was a soldier in the war. An important soldier, but a soldier
      nonetheless. And no soldier can fight on the front lines
      twenty-four hours a day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">…Hey little train, wait for me, I was held in chains but now
      I’m free</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I’m hanging in there, don’t you see, in this process of
      elimination…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He gave in, temporarily surrendered himself to this brief moment
      of respite. He knew, in his heart of hearts, that he would never
      give up the battle, that taking one break to have one silly dance
      would not be the end of the world, and that, it might, in fact,
      make the world better in its own special way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">…Hey little train, we’re jumping on, the train that goes to
      the Kingdom</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We’re happy, Ma, we’re having fun, it’s beyond my wildest
      expectation…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">They continued to shuffle back and forth to the music, their
      heads on each other’s shoulders. They held each other as the music
      and began to slowly fade away. The tears were gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">…Hey little train, we’re jumping on, the train that goes to
      the Kingdom</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We’re happy, Ma, we’re having fun, and the train ain’t even
      left the station…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The music faded out, and Harry and Hermione separated, looking
      at each other, so much unsaid, so much that did not need to be
      said. He closed his eyes. He thought back to the promise he made,
      so long ago…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">“I don’t think you understand at all! ” Hermione said
      sharply. “You said we’d be partners, Harry!”</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That stopped him, she could see it stop him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">“How about this?” Harry said at last. “I’ll promise to ask
      you first before I do anything that could be interpreted as
      meddling in your affairs. Only you’ve got to promise me to be
      reasonable, Hermione. I mean really, genuinely, stop and think for
      twenty seconds first, treat it as a real choice..”</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">“I shouldn’t have to make promises,” she said, “just to be
      consulted about my own life.” She turned from Harry and began
      walking toward the Ravenclaw tower, not looking at him. “But I’ll
      think about it, anyway.”</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">How could he keep that promise? The risk, no matter how slight,
      of her saying “No”, was unacceptable. Well, no, that’s wasn’t quite
      true. He was going to follow through with the plan, regardless. So
      why even bother soliciting her opinion if he had no plans of taking
      it into account?  That was just a cruel form of
      self-deception; going through the motions of friendship with
      nothing real behind it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe the Professor really was right, that Harry was simply
      <em class="calibre8">playing the role</em> of someone who had friends. His head
      still hurt from thinking about it. Was he considering telling her
      because he was truly Hermione’s friend, or simply because he was
      playing the role? Was asking that question in the first place
      indicative that he had her best interests at heart? Or was that
      just precisely what someone who was <em class="calibre8">playing the role</em> would
      do when confronted with the truth?  That kind of thinking was
      a self-destructive spiral; once you begin doubting your own
      volition, there’s no end to the questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Those questions had served him well in the past, but this was
      reality, or at least, it was about to be, and at some point, action
      had to be taken, decisions had to made. He was bound by a Vow
      to–</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stopped for a moment. He had considered it. He had truly
      considered it. He was weighing the value.  The very fact that
      he was even <em class="calibre8">allowed</em> to consider the question was
      significant: Somewhere in the deepest recesses of his mind, he knew
      beyond reasonable doubt, that it was <em class="calibre8">safe,</em> that telling
      Hermione was the <em class="calibre8">right thing to do. </em>He didn’t need to
      consider the levels upon levels, he didn’t need to question his own
      volition, he had a built-in barometer of his own internal
      continuity, free from cognitive biases.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He smiled. Even at the end of it all, he still found a way to
      cheat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Hermione, I… Uh… Thank you for that. I feel better. I really
      do.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smiled. “I know, Harry.” She leaned forward and planted
      a kiss on his forehead. “That’s what friends are for. Don’t you
      ever forget that.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry heard hurried footsteps from down the hall as Hermione
      turned to leave. As she opened the door–</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Hermione,” two voices spoke at once.  Harry’s own,
      and a voice from down the hall. Was that… Draco?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paused, her veins frozen. At one point, she had thought
      this moment might come, that she would have to
      <em class="calibre8">choose </em>between the two of them. But that was
      ridiculous, the stuff of cheap dime novels. Two boys happening to
      fall for the same girl was unrealistic although not implausible.
      But two boys choosing to confess their feelings at the exact
      same moment at the exact same place?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had once told Harry that sometimes, life was, in fact, like
      a play. But most of the time, it wasn’t.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry must have seen her apprehension and the slight stiffening
      of her posture, because he began to laugh. It was a nice, pleasant
      sound, free from the burden of responsibility. For once, there was
      no deliberation on his part, the course of action was so
      straightforward, so clear for him. The situation really was quite
      comical, when viewed from the outside. He could see why she was
      nervous, and as amusing as it was, Harry was quite sure that
      Hermione did not find it so. “Go to him. What I have to say… it’s
      not about that,” he had to purse his lips  to prevent himself
      from grinning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione visibly relaxed, and now she was the one grinning. “I..
      um.. Okay. I’ll be back in a minute.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Sure thing. It can wait. Believe me.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">“Hermione…” said Harry. “I’ve been watching you and
      thinking, since the day you said you were going to be a hero.
      You’ve got the courage. You’ll fight for what’s right, even in the
      face of enemies that would scare other people away. You’ve
      certainly got the raw intelligence for it, and you’re probably a
      better person inside than I am…”</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was convenient that Draco was there. It was fitting. From the
      beginning, and now at the end, they were The Three, and they were
      equals. There were no disposable lieutenants, no trusted
      confidantes. It was just Harry, Draco, and Hermione. A</p>
      <p class="calibre6">nd so, Harry waited patiently for his friends to arrive</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Somewhere above Russia<br class="calibre4"/>
      December 25, 1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">High above them,  six hundred kilometers high, so that its
      field of view encompassed the whole planet, the Mirror hung in the
      exosphere. The anchors were gone, save for two: the Mirror itself,
      and the Line, which was in the process of passing out of this
      world.  Everything that ever was and everything that ever will
      be in the universe had led to this moment. This moment that must
      come to pass because it already has. All worlds had narrowed to
      two, and from those two all worlds would be born.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it did so, the Mirror was completing its final task,
      rebuilding the world according to the designs of its master. It
      acted more efficiently than the most elite Obliviators could ever
      imagine was possible, with not a single iota of effort being
      wasted. Memories were rewritten as self-consistently as possible so
      as to require the least amount of intrusion, physical space was
      only recreated when absolutely necessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was tasked not only with erasing all memories of the taint of
      Magic, but also fixing the world beyond the point of certitude onto
      the path of the Scorpion and the Archer. Lives were altered,
      backstories created and destroyed, stories written and
      rewritten.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the last tales were spun, there was one final thing to do.
      When the Line of Merlin could bear the strain no longer, it glowed
      white, and began to fray apart at the edges. It folded in upon
      itself, distorting the very fabric of reality as it did so. In the
      final moments of its life, the Line flitted through some dimension
      that only exists in the minds of addled physics professors, and
      emerged to the place Beyond Time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, Magic was gone.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Somewhere above Russia<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre8">December 25,
      1999</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I’ll be home for Christmas<br class="calibre4"/>
      You can plan on me<br class="calibre4"/>
      Please have snow and mistletoe<br class="calibre4"/>
      And presents on the tree<br class="calibre4"/>
      Christmas Eve will find me<br class="calibre4"/>
      Where the lovelight gleams<br class="calibre4"/>
      I’ll be home for Christmas<br class="calibre4"/>
      If only in my dreams</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Six hundred kilometers above the Earth, suspended in the
      exosphere, Commander Brown blinked several times as he was roused
      from his sleep by the sound of the radio from Mission Control. He
      picked up the radio transmitter.  “Merry Christmas to all of
      you down there,” replied Brown. “And Hubble will be home for
      Christmas ’cause today we’re going to set her free.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That afternoon, as the robotic arm was about to release the
      Hubble back into orbit, Commander Brown inexplicably thought of the
      Mirror, and how a flaw the fraction of the width of a human hair
      spelled the difference between sight and blindness across the span
      of millions of light years. He thought of the Hubble Deep Field and
      how miniscule he was compared to it. Not just him, but the entirety
      of Earth and all that had come before him and likely would come
      after him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He thought of mankind’s destiny, and whether they would ever
      reach the stars.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
