<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Orders of Magnitude - Orders of Magnitude: Chapter 3 – The Fall</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Orders of Magnitude"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: The Fall</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">XXXXXX</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre8">XX,XXX X.X.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Merlin emerged on the back end of eternity, his Will nearly
      broken, his Life nearly lost. He desperately reached out backward
      across the span of Time, but he knew what the result would be.
      Nothing. What he created should have been Paradise. Instead, it was
      Hell. They were gone, all of them, and he had no one to blame but
      himself. No one was left to blame but himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked forward into the depths of Time, and what he saw
      horrified him further. So many were already dead at his hand, but
      there were to be more. Countless more. Billions more. With every
      day that passed, the Curse that now bound this world and all worlds
      would grow. New lives would be created, lives so unbelievably,
      horrifyingly, tragically short. There was nothing he could do to
      save them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not yet, at least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had looked through Time once more, and in that instant of
      calculation, he embraced all possible futures and saw only one. The
      world must be unbound. The world must be sacrificed for the sake of
      all other worlds. There was no other way. How could there be? This
      was his burden, and every moment wasted, a new tragedy was
      born.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He would soon find that there were others, those who had
      foreseen the cataclysm and taken steps to ensure their safety.
      Tragedies. More tragedies. They were anchored to this world, thus
      they too must be unbound. Nog-Nandh of the Flame, Yanotuk of the
      Cups, Ma’krt of the Rock, KriXiang of the Glass, Shiggoth of the
      Spire, Neirkalatia of the Cross, Gom’Jorbol of the Rod, Kari
      of the Cube, and a handful of others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And himself, Merlin of the Line. He too must be unbound, this he
      knew. It was a sacrifice he would be proud to make when the time
      came: one life for infinite lives. It was a sacrifice that all of
      his kind should be proud to make, twelve lives for infinite lives.
      It was a sacrifice the entire world should be proud to make,
      billions of lives for infinite lives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Over the eons, he met with them, when this new Earth was still
      young and wild. Some had woken, and wandered the world. Some
      appointed avatars to be their proxies. Others still lay slumbering.
      Most, however, clung desperately to their lives, and waged mean and
      petty wars against each other for dominance over a child’s
      playground. He left these sad creatures to their own punishment,
      for he knew they would either end each other, or be ended by the
      new masters of this new world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shiggoth was the first to fall. He left behind, (as the others
      would as well), his point of anchoring to this world. The Spires of
      Shiggoth were fearsome, powerful, and dangerous. But they were
      useful. Such things do not last long in this world or any world
      before they are discovered, abused, and eventually destroyed. He
      would let the universe take its natural toll.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The others, however, were more problematic. Merlin was powerful,
      but not omnipotent. He was knowledgeable but not omniscient. He
      devoted much of his early days to searching, gathering lore and
      knowledge and power and puissance in the process. After a time, he
      came into a plan. He needed their powers, and once he claimed them,
      he would set to his work of saving the world. And he need not waste
      one more minute.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Nog-Nandh slept. Nog-Nandh dreamed. It dreamed of death, of
      horror, of bodies and teeth and limbs, in their countless
      trillions. It dreamed of the death it felt responsible for. This
      horror, this oblivion, was preferable to waking to face what it had
      wrought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So Nog-Nandh slept. It slept for countless eons, dreaming the
      same dreams. Of course, had it so chosen, it could have dreamed
      joy, hope, and love. But it did not want peace. It wanted
      absolution. That absolution would be born in pain and loss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Nog-Nandh dreamed of something different, it knew its day
      of reckoning had come. It dreamed of a man, so unfamiliar. It
      dreamed of a man, an old friend. It dreamed of lined faces and
      green eyes and strange robes and strange hair strange eyes strange
      face strange teeth the teeth the teeth the teeth–</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">On the shores of the lake of teeth, where the black hills
      end.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">–the teeth. The landscape of Nog-Nandh’s nightmares had
      coalesced into distinct geography. In the sky was rain, for it
      always rained from eternity into eternity. Today, the rain took the
      form of mist. A light fog of milk wafted through, collecting dew
      upon the jagged frozen rocks at an outcropping of the lake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This world, this living nightmare, stared into the eyes of the
      strange man who existed as nothing but fractal shadows. And
      undefined period of silence followed. Nog-Nandh’s nightmare-world
      finally spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Merlin… Please.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At that, the new lords of this land arrived: the people of Danu.
      When the last of them came, Merlin wove all of Nog-Nandh’s will
      into the fabric of permanency, ensuring that as long as Nog-Nandh
      endured, so too would this new land. And as long as this new land
      endured, so too would Nog-Nandh. It was not absolution. It was
      Purgatory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tírr i’nna n-Óc endured.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
