<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Orders of Magnitude - Orders of Magnitude: Chapter 4 – Pure Imagination</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Orders of Magnitude"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Pure Imagination</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Many years later<br class="calibre4"/></em><em class="calibre8">The Foothills Near
      Λείβηθρα</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Archon Heraclius Hero surveyed his army, his people. When he
      spoke, everyone heard, both mankind and God alike.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“The old Gods have ruled for too long. They have given us a
      hint, a taste of their power, and now we shall turn that power
      against them. For too long have they shackled the ambitions of
      mankind with their Magic. Man must rise of his own strength, and
      our strength is our mind. We, and those who come after us, must use
      this strength to build great things. We must not become bedridden,
      becoming reliant on an insidious crutch: this will-work that we do
      not understand, “gifted” to us by those who would use it to drive
      us into stagnation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Magic, though it may be a blessing in some respects, makes us
      the play things of the Old Ones. If we rely on magic to build our
      empires, to grow our foundation, we build a house on sand. Our
      house must be built on rock, and that rock is our mind. A true
      curse is not one that brings nothing but misery. A true curse
      grants you power, a true curse is one whose pleasures are so
      intoxicating you do not wish to abandon it. Magic is that true
      curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Eperesto</em>. Look at this. <em class="calibre8">Sanguista</em>. Is it not
      wondrous? <em class="calibre8">Volesonorus</em>. Is it not beautiful? That is the
      hallmark of its danger. Can you apply the principles of reason to
      these spells? Can you predict what words will cause what effect? If
      you cannot, you are a puppet. You are a plaything, stabbing in the
      dark, blindly grasping into places you know not with power that you
      know not. You are at the mercy of those who grant you this
      power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Look around you. Do you see the glittering stone, the wondrous
      palaces, the plentiful houses, the water that courses through our
      city, the food that is bountiful upon your plate? That is the
      legacy of mankind. Look around you. What is the legacy of Atlantis?
      Do you live in a house that Atlantis built? Can you eat food that
      Atlantis has summoned? The old ones wish to keep us shackled, to
      keep us in their thrall, to damn us to millennia of darkness,
      subservient to them. I say “No!” We are subservient to no beings
      but ourselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Let us rise up! It is the start of a new dawn. No longer shall
      the world be ruled by muses and gods and fairies and Mystics. That
      is a world of stagnation, a world where we make no progress because
      no progress is necessary. You shall be the ushers of a glorious
      dawn, and history shall remember you brave souls as the true
      fathers of mankind!”</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">War requires planning. Careful, meticulous, well-thought out and
      well-executed planning. War also requires the ability to
      mercilessly discard those plans the second they were rendered
      obsolete by your opponent. Which of course, they always were. This
      has led many a glib commentators to suggest that the key to war is
      the ability to form new plans at a moment’s notice. Which in turn,
      has led many reactionary commentators to retort that the key to war
      is, in fact, the ability to create a master plan that is impervious
      to as many outside forces as possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The truth of the matter is that there is but a single winning
      move in the game of war, for both yourself and your opponent. As
      with Shatranj, being singularly focused on any one aspect of the
      game will ensure that you lose. You must consider everything in the
      context of that one, final, winning move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The original plan was a variation on one of the classic
      formations. The core principle of magical warfare is that, assuming
      both sides execute perfectly, it is identical to non-magical
      warfare. A magic user is a force multiplier, and thus useless if
      you have no force to multiply. A single user can easily be overrun
      by a few hundred determined baselines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was one of the first hands-on lessons that Heraclius
      endured from his former masters, under the tutelage of the famed
      battle sage, Kobayashi. Hundreds of humans were given the
      protection of the Cross, and Heraclius was directed to defend
      himself by whatever means possible. Fire was worthless. It killed
      many, but it posed no physical barrier. Enough emerged through the
      wall of flame in fighting condition to force him to fight back with
      melee spells, and it was only a matter of time before a stray sword
      cut him down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On his second attempt, he tried to construct physical walls.
      They were equally disastrous; the attackers simply poured over them
      like a river of angry ants. Nothing seemed to be effective.
      Widespread effects didn’t do enough damage to physically stop the
      onslaught. Focused, directed damage didn’t affect enough of the
      army to stymie the advance. It couldn’t be done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The futility of the task couldn’t be the purpose of the lesson,
      otherwise they would have ended it hours ago. So he tried getting
      creative. At one point, he tried simply running away, but this also
      was not the answer that Master Kobayashi was looking for. His
      frustration was beginning to get the best of him as he tried
      increasingly outlandish gambits.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At one point, when they brought in a new regiment to serve as
      attackers, he decided to take a different approach. If he couldn’t
      overpower them with brute force, our outmaneuver them with sheer
      cunning, perhaps he could cow them with pure fear?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a new regiment; Master Kobayashi told them the
      instructions prior to the battle, but this was their first
      run-through. So Heraclius hastily assembled a crude simulacrum of
      Master Kobayashi, along with the Rosarius he carried. He hoped that
      the army was unfamiliar enough with the exercise that they would
      not realize that Master Kobayashi typically observed, invisibly, at
      a distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the army began to charge, Heraclius began the show. He
      feigned an argument with his creation. He artificially magnified
      his voice so that the first line of soldiers could clearly hear
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I will not tolerate this indignity any further. I am one of the
      Descendants! I have the blood of the Gods flowing through my veins,
      and you subject me to this?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The real Master Kobayashi would have said something wise, calm,
      and collected in response. And he certainly would not have cowered.
      but these soldiers did not know the real Master Kobayashi. All they
      knew was that they saw a tall, angry young Descendant towering over
      a frail, elderly teacher.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Heraclius Hero, you shall not disrespect your masters with such
      talk. You will engage in the exercise.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I will do no such thing! Damn you, and damn your Cross! You
      take the gift of our Lady and you desecrate it by bestowing it upon
      these swine. You shall protect them no longer!”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cast his hand out. Master Kobayashi’s Rosarius flew up in the
      air, in full view of the charging army. It imploded within itself,
      sending a shockwave out in all directions, knocking down the first
      several rows of the advance. Parlor tricks. <i class="calibre8">Waddiwassi.
      Confringo. Ventus.</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Continue the act.</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cast another hand up, and the frail simulacrum of Master
      Kobayashi was blasted forward, then engulfed into flames. He could
      hear the audible gasps of the men who were still standing. They
      were unsure of what to make of this. For a brief moment, it was
      silent except for the crackling fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Press the advantage.</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He address the crowd, who had momentarily paused. “I will have
      no more of this. Flee now, in peace, and you shall live. Face me at
      your peril.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The army shifted, uneasily. Master Kobayashi said they would be
      protected… But…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“<i class="calibre8">Avada Kedavra!</i>”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bolt of green light, tinged with red and flecked with specks
      of violet shot through the air, striking one of the men on the
      front line. He fell, dead on the spot. His comrades were, in a way,
      relieved. The specific mechanics of the protection of the Cross
      were such that they would shortly know if their quarry was
      bluffing. They waited. Nothing happened. Their comrade did not
      move. The signs of the Cross did not come into play. Clearly, he
      was dead. Their protection was gone. And an insane wizard was now
      threatening to do the same to them if they did not flee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So they fled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it were, their companion was not, in fact, dead, and as such
      did not invoke the protection of the Cross. The entire thing was a
      ruse: a falsified “Killing Curse” wrapped in a stunner, tinged with
      a Nexus Charm to mask the target’s vital signs. Another minute or
      so and the deception would have become apparent. But they did not
      want to wait another minute. And when the last of the army had left
      the battlefield, the true Master Kobayashi began clapping
      slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Heraclius Hero breathed a sigh of relief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The intended lesson was manifold. Firstly: a horde of
      sufficiently determined baselines could cut down even the most
      powerful of Descendants. Magic was not magic; it had its limits.
      But perhaps more importantly was that the will of the people could
      be easily broken. Even a crude and hasty deception instilled enough
      fear to turn them away. Fear was their greatest weapon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Teach them to fear us, and they shall never raise a hand
      against you. All that you do must be shrouded in mystery. Even your
      name must be something that fills them with dread. You need a True
      Name that inspires fear and raises questions.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without pause, Heraclius spoke. “Meldh. It shall be Meldh.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Master Kobayashi considered this, and smiled. “An old word, yes.
      Many possible origins, and yet all of which point to the same
      undeniable meaning. Yes, that name shall do. You have learned your
      lesson well, Meldh.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was for this reason that, in magical warfare, the wizards
      were always stationed at the back. The front lines were too filled
      with randomness; a single stray arrow or sword could too easily
      turn the tide of the battle. From the rear, the wizards could
      manipulate the battle in relative safety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every attack had its disadvantages. Death from a distance was
      difficult to dole out, and easy to counter. Elemental forces had
      their fundamental opposites. Physical attacks could be turned
      aside. And clever gambits could be turned against their intended
      purpose easily. There were a few tried and true methods, but
      because their efficacy was so well-known, it was easy to plan
      against them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Shatranj on a grand scale. You attacked, they countered.
      They counter-attacked. You countered. You enact gambits , you
      sacrifice material, you control your positions. And as with
      Shatranj, the game typically ends in a draw. Which means that the
      tide of battle is determined by the army, not the wizards
      commanding it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The original plan was simple. The enemy was superior in size, so
      they would concentrate on breaking through a single weak point in
      the enemy line, in order to gain entrance to the Stronghold. Once
      achieved, the army parts, like the Red Sea, allowing the wizards
      and their specialized team of shock troops access to the Stronghold
      itself. Then the army closes back up, shifting into a defensive
      position. If successful, the terrain would not allow the enemy to
      bring the full force of their army to bear, and it would buy Meldh
      and his team sufficient time to complete their task.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The battle was brutal. The enemy wizards attempted to fill the
      sky with weapons of death. They were small, frail things, so Meldh
      summoned a fierce wind to blow them back towards the enemy. This
      counter had been expected, and the force of the wind cause the
      weapons to shatter. He expected those remnants had a secondary
      power unto themselves, and so he and his wizards cast fire into the
      sky, purging the air of the attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">War wizards were well trained in turning their counters into
      attacks of their own, and Meldh’s team was no exception. Even
      before the fire had been cast into their air, one of the wizards
      was crafting wards the form of Amber and Lodestone. Once the fire
      had done its job, the wards contained and compressed the fire into
      a single, white hot point of nearly unimaginable heat, which was
      then directed downward towards the enemy army.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were several fairly trivial counters to such an attack,
      but it was novel, a rarely seen combination of those three
      elements. As such, the enemies turned to Void, a relatively
      all-purpose means of containing an unknown threat. The air above
      the army crackled with the vacuum, as the fabric of the world
      itself was rent asunder. The Void was enhanced by the Boxes of one
      of their masters, and like the gaping maw of some creature that
      existed beyond space and time, it opened wide to swallow the
      singular point of energy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Such a defense was not without costs, however. The Void
      swallowed more than the magical attack; it twisted the flow of the
      Ley, and all wizards both friend and foe alike needed to
      recalibrate. This meant that the defensive Void could not be
      harnessed into an attack of its own. The Void simply existed, was
      filled, and then existed no more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both sides opted for offensive, physical attacks once
      repositioned. Two volleys of enchanted arrows. Simple, effective,
      and ultimately nothing that a sizable team of archers could not
      accomplish on their own without the help of magic. The arrows were
      more effective against the defending army who had less freedom of
      movement. Attacker and defender alike were forced to raise their
      shields to ward off the projectiles, lending further advantage to
      the attackers who were not relying on heavy spears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the phalanx crashed forwards, the battle continued, a game of
      magical cat-and-mouse, for upwards of an hour. The enemy line was
      thinning against the continued onslaught, but it was beginning to
      compress inward once it had realized the nature of the attack. Time
      was now of the essence, so they began the second phase of their
      attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the middle ranks, the men in enchanted plate mail charged
      forward. They held no weapons, only shields. This disoriented the
      individual defenders, who braced for attacks which did not come.
      This allowed the men, despite their limited mobility due to the
      armor, to slip by. They pushed farther into the ranks of the
      opposing army, using their shields as battering rams to continue
      the penetration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The enemy quickly formed an interlocked defensive line of
      shields, which could not be penetrated by the handful of charging,
      armored soldiers, who were unceremoniously cut down. This was,
      however, the intended effect. The suits of armor, which had been
      linked together by magic, detected the moment that the last of
      their wearers expired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then they exploded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was not a particularly devastating attack, but it was
      unexpected, and it created a physical clearing which Meldh’s army
      immediately seized upon. Soldiers fled their individual skirmishes
      and flooded into the hole that was punched in the line, and pushed
      forward with reckless abandon. They could see light, grass, and
      rock. They had reached the back, the end of the line, and drove in
      like a wedge. The signal was called, and Meldh and his team began
      their charge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What Meldh and his army did not know was that their attack would
      have been doomed to failure. It was filled with too many clever
      ideas and desperate gambits that had but a fractional chance of
      success. A well-placed explosion made for good drama, but a true
      army would quickly regroup and repel the attack with renewed
      vigor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The attack was successful because The Three had decided it was
      time for their decisive strike against the coalition. The attack
      was successful because it was bolstered by the combined power of
      Gom’Jorbol of the Rod, and Kri’Xiang of the Glass. Masquerading as
      pawns, they led the charge into the Stronghold, and in the midst of
      the chaos, no one noticed the two lone soldiers charging inside
      before Meldh and the shock troops could arrive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were Gods, and yet, they looked like men. On the
      battlefield, they gave off no supernatural aura of power, nor did
      they make mere mortals feel compelled to bow before them through
      some unknown impulse. They were simply men. But once they were
      inside the Stronghold, it was time to put the masks on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gom’Jorbol stood, tall, proud, as his glittering armor
      instantiated around him. Massive, oversized epaulets crafted of
      plate were decorated with gilt and jewels. A stylized eagle adorned
      his chest, and a sash hung from his waist. He had seen the armor
      once, in a book from his youth an eternity ago, and it caught his
      eye. In his hand, he carried a two-meter tall spear, tipped with a
      sharpened diamond the size of two hands clasped together. The
      diamond alone was worth the riches of an entire kingdom. The
      combined wealth of a hundred kingdoms was not even a fraction as
      valuable as the staff which the diamond tipped: the Rod of
      Ankyras.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet, even that was but a paltry curio compared to the
      mirrored shield that Kri’Xiang carried in his hand. A massive,
      inviolate, golden oval that did not so much move through the world
      as the world moved around it. He was smaller than Gom’Jorbol, but
      no less intimidating when he chose to be. Together, they strode
      into the depths of the Stronghold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Although they were prepared for battle, they found none. They
      were expected. Which was, unto itself, not entirely unexpected.
      When they reached the main atrium, they stopped, and Gom’Jorbol
      turned to Kri’Xiang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Do you think you can handle Janus and Kayla by yourself?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kri’Xiang laughed. “Do you think I’d be here if I couldn’t?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Good. Then let’s end this.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They nodded towards each other, and went their separate
      ways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they walked down their respective halls, Kri’Xiang to the
      left and Gom’Jorbol to the right, they could hear the clashes of
      pitched battle begin anew at the entrance to the Stronghold: the
      shock troops had arrived. The distinctive roar of magic being used
      in melee combat echoed in the distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gom’Jorbol reminded himself that if he survived this, he owed it
      to the mortals to help them escape. He pondered this thought, among
      many, as he walked down the hall. The familiarity of it all and the
      anticipation made it difficult to focus. What would he say? How
      could he do it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He finally reached the tall wooden doors that led to the
      narthex. With one solid kick, they flew open, and he strode in, an
      avenging angel in battle armor, carrying the Spear of Destiny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His heart swelled. At the end of the temple, stood Neirkalatia
      of the Cross, wearing armor of the same design with a distinctly
      feminine twist. She was beautiful, of course. He always found her
      beautiful. Physically, yes, but physical beauty was easy to come
      by. All of the Old Ones were stunning in their physical perfection,
      except the ones who deliberately chose otherwise. No, it was her
      mind and her Will that was beautiful. And the image he carried with
      him paled in comparison to the truth of her being. For the first
      time in eternity, Gom’Jorbol felt hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In her hands was a four-foot tall, stylized cross, a Masonic
      blade of supernatural sharpness and legendary unto its own right.
      Behind her was the True Cross, tall and glorious. Today, it was not
      wood. It was primed: the True Cross in its true form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today, Neirkalatia knew she was going to die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stood, her back facing Gom’Jorbol, staring up at the cross.
      She pondered the eons of time that had passed, and she thought
      about all the things she could say, all the things she could do. A
      small smile crossed her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Hello, Gus.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Hello, Nat.”</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
