<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 10: Vienna, Part 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: Vienna, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">On the Fourth of October, Mr. Duke gave a speech to prepare the
      troops.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone, we will be deposing Emperor Francis today. We'll
      begin by taking a Portkey I have managed to acquire to the Magical
      Disrict of Vienna. Then we will stun everyone we see, proceed to
      the Throne Room, and kill the Emperor. After we have secured the
      Government building, I'll come to the Palace, and I'll begin to set
      up a new government. You will provide security during this. Does
      everyone get that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The assembled soldiers nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then proceed to the Portkey outside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gottfried Essen was bored. Guard duty in the Palace was
      monotonous, but it was good pay. It was three in the morning, and
      he was close to nodding off. He should probably get a potion. Well,
      at least he didn't have to guard the Emperor. Francis was not a
      nice man. He thought he heard a banging noise outside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, dozens of Brazilian soldiers burst through the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eleutrio Goeuvia yelled out "Drop your wands and surrender."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gottfried heard the man next to him scream an expletive. There
      was a clatter of wands on the floor. The Brazilians began stunning
      his fellow soldiers. This was not what he had signed up for. He
      dropped his wand and yelled "I surrender." A Brazilian cast a
      stunner his way, and that was the last Gottfried Essen remembered
      of the first battle of Vienna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emperor Francis thought he heard a faint noise outside. He
      wondered what was happening. As he was getting up, groaning all the
      way, he saw a flash of light from under his door. The door burst
      open, and a dozen swarthy men, who seemed to be Brazilian, burst
      in. "What is this?" Francis called. "Goodbye Francis.
      <em class="calibre7">Reducto</em>." One of the men replied. And so, Emperor Francis,
      ruler of the Austrian Empire since 1945, died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped onto the soil of his first conquest. Some of the
      Austrians had tried to counterattack, but most had surrendered
      after Francis's death and the capture of most of government. All
      told, only 2 members of the Ironlance had died, and 6 were badly
      injured. The rest were rich. And Harry, well Harry begun the first
      step on the path to world conquest. Now for Germany.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
