<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 11: Vienna, Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Vienna, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Vienna, Part 2</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By Saturday, a new provisional government had been set up. A few
      of Harry's associates and members of the British government had
      taken roles in the new Vienna. Mr. Duke had been able to go back to
      school, after a brief "sickness". Harry had called a meeting of
      those in the know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the depths of Merlin Hospital, Harry asked "What do you think
      our plan for after the German War should be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody replied "Son, you don't even know that the Germans will go
      to war yet. Don't make plans for victory before you've even started
      the game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry responded "They will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye sighed. "You don't know that. Yes, you were successful
      in Vienna, but you easily could have failed. You don't know
      everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry replied "True, but the Germans have to attack us. And
      besides, I have a plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Son, you're treating this like one of your games. It isn't. If
      you lose in one of those, nothing happens. If you lose in this,
      you, and all of us, die. Let the actual professionals handle the
      war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry answered "I am a professional. I won in Vienna, and I'm
      the leader of this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye growled "You're twelve. At some point, your
      overconfidence is going to cause you to get us all killed. Let me
      handle the war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry replied "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mad-Eye growled "Then I'm leaving."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One's of the Emperor aides called out "The Intelligence Minister
      is here, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Karl Hollweg, the Intelligence Minister of the German Empire,
      was a short and squat man, who appeared to be in his late
      nineties.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emperor Frederich asked "What news do you have for you have for
      me today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well", Minister Hollweg responded "we now have definitive
      evidence that the British were behind the Vienna coup. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The force that attacked Vienna and deposed your uncle was
      Ironlance, a private mercenary company composed of mostly
      Brazilians. They were hired by a "Mr. Duke", who is the fictional
      identity of one of the members of the new british government.
      Incidentally, we have found out how much "Mr. Duke" paid
      Ironlance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much?" the Emperor questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A million Galleons." Karl responded with a smug smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A million? How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure, Sir, but I think it has to do with the unlimited
      budget the British seem to have gotten recently." Inwardly, he
      smirked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. Well, we'll raise this at the next meeting of the
      International Confederation of Wizards." The Emperor replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think the Brits will cede this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not. But we will have a Casus Belli, and then we will
      go to war with them." The Emperor said smugly, acting like it was
      his idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. You plan to attack London?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and Hogwarts, and their new hospital. We shall seize all
      of Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. That sounds like an excellent plan. In other news…..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That night, in the streets of Berlin, Karl Hollweg walked. After
      a few minutes, he ducked in an alleyway. "He" removed a charm
      around himself. A young looking blond woman walked out, with a
      smirk. All was going to plan.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
