<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 12: The ICW, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12: The ICW</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The next week, both Harry and the German Emperor went to the
      meeting of the International Confederation of Wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Sabase Praacheen Hol towered over everything around. Nearly
      a hundred meters tall, it loomed vast over the great city around
      it. The shining jewel of India was unspeakably ancient. None had
      yet tried to use Muggle methods to date it, but what methods they
      had used had revealed a date that was simply unimaginable. The
      Sabase Praacheen Hol was over 4 million years old. Given that most
      wizards had believed that the world was ten thousand years old,
      this had come as quite a shock. It seemed to be a relic from the
      times of Atlantis. The walls were made of a glowing white material,
      which nothing of this day was even able to so much as scratch. It
      was one of the greatest artifacts of the days when gods yet walked
      the Earth, when Oinos Bhrghos destroyed countries with a word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was inside was far less impressive. There was row after row
      of seats, fit to hold the hundred and more magical nations that
      deigned to send representatives to the International Confederation
      of Wizards. There were also smaller conference rooms, for the
      numerous subcommittees. Inside the room for the subcommittee, there
      was indecipherable writing carved into the walls in some long
      forgotten language. As near as Harry could tell, it read Fch
      chmhchdch obrchn Latnts. Across the room, Harry saw the Emperor
      Frederich, and a middle-aged man who seemed to be his aide.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later, the chair, an old seeming woman in a
      headscarf, probably from the Ottomans, said, "I see everyone is
      here this week. Are there any issues anyone wants to raise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Emperor Frederich jumped up, and shouted, "Yes. Britain has
      launched an illegal coup against Austria, and they must be
      reprimanded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cagri Sadik responded "Ah. How does the representative of the
      British Empire respond?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry said, "Let me do this." To Amelia Bones. He got up. "This
      charge is of course, ridiculous." There were mutters of surprise.
      "The deposing of Emperor Francis was not an act of the British
      government. The organization that killed that senile old tyrant
      merely asked for our help. And Frederich's concern for Emperor
      Francis is not born out of any high-minded altruism. Rather, it is
      because the death of his uncle, and the replacement of him with a
      regime that will actually listen to the people, means that
      Frederich will lose some of his ill-gotten and illegal influence in
      Germany. Any German invasion of Austria would be a sign of German
      revanchism."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Emperor indignantly replied "Are we no longer safe in our
      beds from Britain? Francis was the legitimate ruler of Austria, and
      murdering him is an act of war. I demand all British forces leave
      Austria, or we will declare war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if we were to leave, who would succeed to the Austrian
      throne? Oh, right, you. This is not some high-minded altruism; this
      is a simple desire to expand his throne. I call on all of you to
      stop this German expansionism in its tracks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You dare defy me, you impudent boy?" Frederich screamed,
      practically apoplectic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. I will not stand idly by while the Germans again take
      nations, and try to found a European Empire. I do not wish to fight
      another great war, but I will if I must."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you will have your war, and I will defeat you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." The French representative called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You heard me. You will not conquer Britain, and we will fight
      you to prevent you. You lost the first Great War, do you really
      wish to fight another?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is not another Great War. I will fight to stop this boy
      from killing us in our beds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is a great war. You are threating to invade countries to
      expand your throne. If you defeat Britain, where will you turn
      next? France? Spain? Poland? The Italian States?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nowhere. I fight only Britain. I promise that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grindlewald promised the same after Poland fifty years ago. And
      there were those in my country who were foolish enough to believe
      him. I was not. I will not be foolish enough to believe you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will do this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you." Harry called with a smirk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You." The Emperor screamed. "I will kill you foolish boy."
      Emperor Frederich stormed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cagri Sadik tried to restore order, but that was a fool's
      errand. As Harry left the room, there were only two people with a
      smile on their face.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
