<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 3: Platform 9 34, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Platform 9 3/4</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's parents had made him go to Platform 9 and ¾ this year,
      over his protests. Apparently he needed to "socialize with the
      other children". Instead of driving all the way to London, he had
      just taken the Floo. Stepping out of the fireplace, he looked
      around the platform. There was already a small horde of children
      and parents, and there was still two hours until the train left. He
      looked around to see if any non-NPCs were here yet. Well, Draco was
      sitting at a table on the other side of the platform.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter." Malfoy snarled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you no longer my friend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco replied "Generally, killing someone's father means
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've already told you why I killed him. He was a Death-Eater
      who was trying to kill me. What would you have me do? Die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. You killed my father, you are no longer my friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You hit me with a torture curse, and I was still your
      friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, because mildly hurting someone is the same as killing
      their father."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Again, it was self defense. So you're not going to be my
      friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Again, No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Hermione. What did you do this summer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I studied for the O. with you. You should know that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, what classes are you taking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fourth Year Defense and Herbology, Third Year Runes,
      Divination, Care of Magical Creatures, and History of Magic, Fifth
      Year Charms, Transfiguration, Potions, and Astronomy and Sixth Year
      Arithmancy . And you?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Third Year Herbology and Care of Magical Creatures, Fourth Year
      Defense and Potions, Fifth Year Charms and Transfiguration, and
      Seventh Year Astronomy and Arithmancy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know if Neville is here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't see him, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. Hey, there's that girl from the Quibbler."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait. Luna Lovegood?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to talk to her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, she published an article where she claimed Sirius Black
      and Peter Pettigrew are secretly the same person, and that I was 65
      years old."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So? Why would-Oh. How did she know that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think she's a seer, and given that I am trying to take over
      the world, having her on my side would be very helpful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then go over and talk to her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna was certainly the most oddly dressed person in the entire,
      purely by default. She was wearing a helmet at least three sizes
      too large, that was painted a shade of neon orange. Her shirt was
      lime green, and seemed to be made of basilisk skin. She also
      appeared to be on stilts. Finally, the magazine she was reading was
      turn sideways, and was written in hieroglyphics. There were also no
      other children within 20 feet of her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Luna. I'm Harry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning Tom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It isn't wise to tell everyone your secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine. <em class="calibre7">Muffliato</em>. Now can you tell me how you
      know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, since <em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em> doesn't blow up houses, and
      always works, it is clear that the Dark Lord didn't try to Avada
      Kedavra. Given that rituals, if gone wrong can cause explosions, it
      is obvious that it was a ritual. Combine that with the unusual way
      you acted at Diagon Alley-".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a faint sputtering noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-and my prior knowledge of mind replacement rituals, it is
      obvious that Voldemort replaced your mind with his own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is obvious that Voldemort replaced your mind with his own.
      You do know that right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but, well there's no way you know that." Harry
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean? I just told you I know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean, it only makes sense in hindsight. Even with what you
      knew, you had to be guessing. Plus, I looked at the predictions in
      the Quibbler, and less than half of them are true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As far as you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, how did you know that Voldemort and Tom Riddle were the
      same person. He didn't tell anyone that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom Riddle was a prominent and gifted who was the same age as
      Voldemort. That's obvious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. How are you this smart, and are you trying to take over
      the world?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My parents conducted rituals to boost my intelligence and
      intuition, and not yet, and probably never."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, you can do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but it's extremely dangerous, and only works before the
      age of 7."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you be willing to help someone take over the world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It depends on why they are trying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To stop people from dying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, where do you plan to start?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't tell you I was trying to take over the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't ask."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
