<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 6: Backdoor Deals, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Backdoor Deals</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Backdoor Deals</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After talking to the members of the Wizengamot, Harry had learnt
      that there were only three he needed to convince on his side. With
      Amelia Bones breaking ties, he only needed two, and fewer still if
      he could get someone from Greengrass's faction on his side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael Oliver was the Lord of the Noble House of Oliver. He was
      82 years old, and had three children and seven grandchildren. He
      was also a pureblood, a Slytherin, and adamantly opposed to
      elective seats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Lord Oliver. I wanted to you about the elective seats.
      Why are you opposed to it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Young man, I'm all for letting the people have a voice, but
      they have that in the Minister. Letting the rabble rule this
      distinguished body would ruin it. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Oliver, the people of Britain are quite capable of making
      decisions on their own. The Minister has no real power, and you
      know that. Letting the people have actual influence is
      reasonable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fine with the people having influence, young man. You plan
      to have thirty seats ran by the people though. That is far too much
      influence. You'd let the rabble have enough to stop anything they
      didn't like. We cannot be Aceh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How is letting 90% of the people have a third of the power
      giving them too much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will not let the mob control this body. I would be amenable
      to your suggestion if there were fewer seats."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if there were twenty seats you would vote for it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Harry, will Lord Oliver vote with us?" Amelia Bones
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only if we reduce it to twenty seats. What about Lord Nelson
      and Lady Raines." Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Nelson will, Lady Raines will not. I believe we have 42
      votes. Are you willing to reduce it to 20 seats?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe. I'm going to see if Lady and Lord Greengrass will vote
      with us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Lord and Lady Greengrass. I trust you are well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Mr. Potter. What do you want to talk with us about?" The
      Lord Greengrass answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you support the adding to thirty elected seats to the
      Wizengamot?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possibly. Why would we?" asked the Lady Greengrass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Times are changing. My side currently has three quarters of the
      Wizengamot, and after this passes I will have yet more. You vote
      with me in this, and you take a important place in the new order.
      If you don't, I can still pass this, and there are ways to take the
      Most Anciente title from a house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well." The Lord Greengrass replied. "We will side with you
      on this. If you give us ten thousand Galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? You're willing to pay that much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. I can write a contract if you want, or just give you the
      money out of my vault ."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. We'll vote with you." The Lady Greengrass said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that we have filled the vacant seats, we will now turn to
      our last order of business for today. Lord Potter has another
      proposal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As many know, I propose that we add another twenty seats to
      this distinguisged body. They will be filled by dividing Britain
      into twenty areas of equal population, and then holding elections
      for each area."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An interesting proposal, Lord Potter. Does anyone have any
      questions, or shall we call this to a vote? Very well, let us
      vote."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a number of wands lit, but Harry could not count
      quite how many.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Forty one, forty two, forty three, forty four, forty five. I
      belive that the vote is 45-11. The motion passes. The Ministry
      shall be authorized to create the new districts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From one side of the room there were cheers, and from the other
      screams of outrage. An old man in gray robes leapt up, and screamed
      "You will ruin the Wizengamot with mudbloods and blood
      traitors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Silence." Amelia Bones yelled. "The motion has passed, and we
      will not kill each other over it. In accordance with the last
      decision of the eighty-eighth Wizengamot, let us adjourn."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
