<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the European Empire - Harry Potter and the European Empire Chapter 9: PMC, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the European Empire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: PMC</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The next weekend, Harry began the Vienna operation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His plan was to hire a private mercenary, and use them to
      overthrown Emperor Francis of the Austrian Empire. He was first
      going to meet with Ironlance, a mercenary company of 50 soldiers,
      most of whom were from the Brazilian Empire. He was meeting with
      the head of the company Pedro Goulart, after being transfigured to
      look like an adult.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, Mr. Duke. What do you wish to hire my company for?"
      Major Goulart asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would like to hire Ironlance to attack the Austrian Emperor's
      palace, and overthrow their government. I also wish to hire you as
      security for a few months after we overthrow Francis." Harry
      responded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That will be difficult. Francis has an army, you know." Goulart
      replied</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm willing to pay war rates."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you want to overthrow Francis?" Goulart questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's an unjust ruler, and he oppresses his people." Harry
      replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goulart smiled. Clearly Mr. Duke was just another idealistic
      fool. He'd be able to make quite a bit of money from him, and
      Francis wasn't that dangerous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. My price is a million Galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A million Galleons. You could buy a country with that much
      money." Harry replied. It was a ridiculous price, of course. He
      also had unlimited money, so it was no matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't that what you're doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. I'll get Urk to write up a contract. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goulart started in surprise. Just how much money did Mr. Duke
      have?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. When do you plan for us to start?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the 4th of this month."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
