<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Exam Answer - Exam Answer, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Exam Answer"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Sixty seconds. Harry wasted one with a moment of panic,
      adrenaline flooding his system, then almost reviewed everything he
      knew about magic, every weakness he knew of Voldemort, every tool
      at his disposal. He almost did that, but stopped. Before thinking
      of solutions, what was the problem? Harry turned in a small circle,
      wand pointing down, taking in the scene. The Death Eaters. The
      obelisks. The tombstones. Hermione. Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One minute was not the optimally minimum five, and shortened
      again but having to think of solutions...but it would have to do.
      First identify the problem? That was easy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The problem was an extremely powerful, intelligent, nearly
      immortal psychopathic wizard viewed Harry as an existential threat
      and was doing everything in his power to prevent that threat with
      the denouement being Harry's death. If the wizard was successful,
      he would then torture and murder nearly everyone Harry cared about
      as well as thousands of other humans. Untold horrors would continue
      at the whim of the wizard for eternity. Harry had fifty seconds
      now, to start talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was the true problem that Harry didn't have enough time to think
      of a better solution? Yes, but Harry didn't see a way out of that.
      The only reason Harry was alive was the wizard though Harry may
      have some special knowledge that would make that wizard even more
      powerful. Harry wanted to live, yes. But he knew that more
      importantly he must prevent Voldemort from committing evil. Harry
      would give his life to remove that threat. Not reluctantly, but
      with resignation. He could delay his death by sharing the few novel
      things he knew. Partial transfiguration. Dyson spheres. Artificial
      intelligence. Arbitrage. The Sorting Hat's secret. The Peverell
      brothers. Those things he could share, not as trade for the
      pain-free lives of his parents, for Minerva, and for Neville, but
      simply to buy some time to think of better solutions to save
      humanity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry couldn't talk and think at the same time. The Bene
      Gesserit could split their awareness onto separate tracks, but
      Harry hadn't been able to develop that ability despite seven weeks
      of work when he was nine. He would gain no thinking time by
      talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort viewed Harry as an existential threat. Is there a way
      to abate that? Was Harry an existential threat? Harry didn't know
      the prophecy Voldemort was talking about, did he? Harry closed his
      eyes and let his mind drift over the past year. Letting his
      subconscious flash images. Certain images clarified themselves.
      Comments appeared above those and then some of those popped like
      bubbles. Others hung in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Death Eater Mask. The Aurors of Azkaban must know that Voldemort
      has returned. The Dark Marks of the imprisoned Death Eaters would
      be causing a stir. Harry swallowed, his eyes darting to the severed
      arm as he turned slowly again in a circle. How would the Aurors
      know where to come? Regardless, they would not survive. Lucius and
      Severus might be behind those masks. Harry thought he recognized
      Mr. White's speech patterns as belonging to Lord Malfoy. But what
      could they do against Lord Voldemort, aside from die? The mask fell
      from his vision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The face of his Occlumency teacher. Harry could try to use
      Occlumency to pretend to be a different person who would fool
      Parseltongue and create lies for Voldemort. Harry recalled that
      Voldemort said that Occlumency cannot fool Parselmouth as it can
      fool Veritaserum, but he didn't say so in Parseltongue. An
      interesting line...but Harry felt instinctively that this could not
      work. The feeling was odd, as if some god had spoken, (though Harry
      did not find evidence that supported such an entity), so he
      discarded it. No time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Owls. Owls had nothing to do here. Why was he thinking about
      owls? The owl flew away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Partial transfiguration. Harry envisioned partially transfigured
      ambient nitrogen wires shooting from the tip of his wand into the
      left eyes of all assembled Death eaters and then Voldemort encased
      in transfigured carbonite. That image popped. That was way beyond
      his abilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wished he had had more time. But if wishes were
      thestrals...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Dementor. Harry couldn't believe he thought this, but a
      Dementor would really brighten the place up. A flight of Dementors
      could send the Death Eaters and Voldemort running, at least
      temporarily. Voldemort would return quickly. Harry couldn't figure
      out a way to conjure them. Perhaps if he had a sword, a rope, and a
      thimble. A small bell went off in Harry's mind. Quirell had said he
      knew a spell which would bring forth death, but the one that would
      banish it had been lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His Patronus. Harry suspected he had rediscovered it that lost
      spell. His True Patronus banished death. It had stopped Quirrell's
      Killing Curse. Harry had thought it was the interaction of magic
      that had stopped it, but something else clicked into place. The
      True Patronus was anti-death. The True Patronus could stop Avada
      Kedavra! Could it stop other hexes? Harry didn't know, but
      suspected not. His Patronus hung in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione. Hermione. She was part of the answer. She was nearly
      indestructible. And she had Perhaps more than Voldemort knew. He
      was bound to her. It was a sliver of hope. A silver sliver.
      Hermione had been resurrected with the True Patronus, perhaps she
      could survive the Killing Curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His wand bound by gold strings. The Vow. The Vow bound him to
      consider how his actions and inactions would affect the world. If
      he was unsure it his actions could result in the destruction of the
      world, he needed to consult Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His scar. The horcrux system. Could the horcrux system have
      weaknesses? Yes, it was likely. Perhaps restoring to a backup would
      fail if he managed to kill Voldemort. That was a slim hope. Perhaps
      his own death would cause a backup to be overwritten, but Harry
      doubted it. Harry couldn't think of a way to exploit those bugs
      though, aside from promising Voldemort to help patch them. It was
      unlikely Voldemort would delay his death in exchange for that.
      There are other smart people who could help, and Voldemort had
      nothing but time. That hung there with the others, but in the
      background.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric Diggory. If he could extract Cedric's skeleton, and
      sharpen-no. Harry moved on, Cedric winking at him and fading.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Time Turner. Harry could think of no way to leverage time
      here. His precommit trick could only work if he could summon the
      power to defeat Voldemort in the next six hours. Passing a note to
      Professor Flitwick wouldn't work here. There was no way to create a
      paradox. A dead end. The time turner spun and disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape reciting the prophecy he had heard. Harry could explain to
      Voldemort that the original prophecy was not fulfilled. Snape was
      the witness and could verify that truth. But would that change the
      situation? No, Voldemort would be more inclined to kill Harry,
      dismantling both prophecies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Trelawney in the Great hall. Could Voldemort be right? Could
      Harry be responsible for destroying the world? "HE IS COMING, THE
      ONE WHO WILL TEAR APART THE VERY S-" Someone thought it was Sun.
      The centaur mentioned the sky being empty. Of stars? Would Harry
      destroy the stars? Is that what this is about? Would Voldemort
      release Harry if he could prove the the prophecy was not about
      Harry? Probably, not release Harry, Voldemort was too far gone at
      this point, but it may stall him for a time. And if it was about
      Harry? Harry could think of ways that dismantling the stars would
      further human civilization, but that go along with Voldemort's
      current belief in prophecy destruction. Trelawney's face hung in
      his mind's eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A gold orb. That was how a prophecy was stored.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his eyes. After-images hung in his visual memory.
      His wand wrapped in gold, the Vow. Trelawney's face. A golden orb.
      The True Patronus. Hermione. His scar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I<em class="calibre7">t iss true I have knowledge and powerss which you know
      not. Not many, but sssome. Before I ssspeak of this I am compelled
      to ssspeak of other things.. By the Vow I have taken, I
      ssspeak</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued in Parseltongue, "Ten years ago, did you test
      see if that prophecy was about you? It is a simple test. One needs
      to only access the Hall of Prophecy. You can also test if about me.
      Perhaps the Dark Lord is not you, teacher, but another. Perhaps
      Death itself. Perhaps the one with the power to vanquish is not me,
      but another. Perhaps from Hogwarts or elsewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Ssstupid child. I care not about the first prophecy. If
      prophecy iss about you, and you die, I win. If it iss not and you
      die, I eat a sssandwich. You have no time.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry said, "<em class="calibre7">Yess, but h</em><em class="calibre7">ow will you know if plan is
      sssuccessful?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued in Parseltongue, "I introduce this because there
      is more I need speak of, but am bound by vow to be cautious. The
      final threads are waiting to be snipped, but what if that causes
      the result you fear and I am bound to avert? What if you are the
      one who will destroy the stars? The centaur thought not, but you
      and I are similar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is enough danger to invoke my duties to action under the
      vow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I have heard Snape say that Snape believes he would understand a
      fulfilled prophecy after hearing of the events. If this is true
      about prophecies in general, and I die, what happens if you do not
      get that feeling? Does it mean I am still a threat? Or the prophecy
      was about another? If that is just Snape's own belief and not true
      of prophecies in general then there is even more uncertainty. How
      do you know the 'He is coming...' is about me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry concluded, "<em class="calibre7">There iss a sssimple way to find out, but
      not if I die here now. Take me to Hall of Prophecy and sssee which,
      if any, orbsss float to me. Per the requirementss of the Vow, I
      expect I will need the counsel of my friend to help anssswer the
      quesstion whether I myself ssshould live.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's Occlumency barriers were strong, and he did not let slip
      the image of the True Patronus blocking the Killing Curse; or the
      image of Hermione possessing the same ability. He did not let slip
      the thought of future plans. Or of hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort stared hard at Harry. Then he smiled a chilling smile.
      His fangs reflected the moonlight. He began to speak-</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
