<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>14. Dark Lord Material - Dark Lord Material Chapter 1 Avada Kedavra, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="14. Dark Lord Material"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Avada Kedavra</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">This is a spin off of Less Wrongs Harry Potter and the
      Methods of Rationality Fanfiction. All idea's and characters go to
      him and J.K. Rowling. I just couldn't resist jumping in on the
      fun.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">If you have not read Methods of Rationality, please stop
      what you are doing and read it NOW! It is awesomeness in a
      can.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">And now, please enjoy my fanfiction, of a
      fanfiction.</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Truemythewise: *sigh*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inner child: *pressing hands over mouth, hardly restraining
      utter delight*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Truemythewise: "I suppose this is it…" *starts adjusting a
      rather thick rope into a noose.* "I never thought I'd let it get
      this horrible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inner child: "Oh, shut up, you know you're going to enjoy
      this!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Truemythewise: "Yes," *nestling noose around neck* "I just never
      thought my descent into complete nerdom would ever happen. I mean,
      I'm past the point of no return once I do this." *Taking a deep
      breath.* "Alright. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do the
      unspeakable. I'm—" *swallows* "I'm going to write a fanfiction of a
      fanficiton!" *Promptly kicks chair out from under herself.*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inner child: *cheers in delight* "Oh, this is going to be so
      much fun!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dignity: *shoulders slumped, dragging own noose behind.* "We had
      a line that we just did not cross. There is only so much you can do
      before you are a hopeless nerd." *rightens knocked over chair next
      to Truemythewise's swinging corpse* "And this is one of those
      things" *sets up own noose*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inner child: *dancing and whooping in victory about the pair
      doomed personalities*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dignity: "You are far too happy about this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inner child: "Oh please she's been wanting to do this for years.
      Just imagine FINALLY getting all those stories out of your head
      onto paper. No need to worry about being original this is going to
      be fun!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dignity: "Course you don't care about originality." *tightens
      noose around throat while continuing speaking* "I just don't see
      the point in writing off someone else's perfectly good work. The
      only reason why anyone would do such a thing is because they
      couldn't come up with anything awesome on their own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inner child: "Nonsense. There are plenty of original
      fanficiton's that are awesome in their own right. Besides,
      fanficition isn't about being original it's about going with it and
      having fun! Dignity be hanged!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dignity: *is promptly hanged*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inner child: *cheers in victory* "Let the lord of chaos
      rule!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter one</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The day had arrived when Harry would learn the curse that had
      set into action his epic destiny to become the world's first
      immortal magical scientist. (or so he hoped anyway.) Today was the
      day he'd learn the infamous, unbeatable, unblockable, one hit KO
      Avada Kedavra. Today he'd see just how accurate Professor Quirrell
      hypothesis of Harry's intent to kill really was. Today…was going to
      suck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was going to suck for two reasons. One, if he successfully
      learned Avada Kedavra it'd be plus fifty points to dark lord
      Harry's reputation, which, after the incident with the bullies, had
      significantly grown. It didn't help that there were only five
      people in the entire world, including himself, who knew he could
      cast a Patronus. If Harry learned Avada Kedavra in his first year
      and not be capable of producing a Patronus, that was indeed a sure
      sign of him being a dark wizard. Oh, and he'd almost been sorted
      into Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And two, today was going to suck because Professor Quirrell had
      decided he needed help in teaching the children of Hogwarts Avada
      Kedavra, and who better to fulfill the roll of assistance to death
      than Lucius Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were probably a host of other reasons why today was going
      to suck, but at the moment Harry couldn't think of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The extra credit lesson was set in the Defense Against the Dark
      Arts classroom. Harry sat in his usual seat in the back of the
      room, waiting for the Defense Professor to finish his 'security
      speech.' It wasn't very long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is the killing curse. It kills people. When you cast this
      curse and hit your intended target do not be shocked to find them
      dead. I repeat, this is the killing curse. You do not use this
      curse unless you mean to kill someone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry almost snorted, but too many people had decided to sit
      close to him today. As if his supposed immunity to the killing
      curse could somehow protect them. Most of them were Hufflepuffs,
      and a surprising number of Gryffindors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are a number of useful way's to go about this curse, but
      until you have experience with it, stick to the notion that when
      firing this curse, expect people to die. Now, if there is anyone in
      the room who is uncomfortable with the current curriculum, I invite
      you to leave now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several students looked to one another, but no one rose. Harry's
      eyes drifted to Hermione. All he could make out was the back of her
      bushy head, but he could imagine the determined look on her face.
      Harry didn't think she had it in her to kill someone, but he knew
      she'd want to try and learn the spell anyway. Perhaps she even
      fooled herself into thinking she could do it, and maybe she could.
      Harry hoped that she wouldn't learn though. There was just
      something wrong with teaching Hermione Granger to kill people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, I'm going to demonstrate the spell three times and
      then you are going to take it in turns coming up and trying it for
      yourselves," a twisted smile came to the Defense Professors lips.
      "Any volunteers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several people scooted closer to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell waved and three caged rats resting on
      pedestals appeared. He went through the gesture of the spell twice
      before uttering it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Avada Kedavra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flash of green light and the first rat was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The key to the killing curse is intent. You have to
      <em class="calibre9">mean</em> to kill." He performed the gestures again, slowly for
      every first year to catch. And with the flick of his wand, an
      incantation, and the second rat was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt there are many of you who will succeed in casting so
      much as a flicker of light, of those who do manage to get that far,
      do not be too disappointed to find your intended target very much
      alive," The Defense Professor went on before casting the curse a
      third time, finishing off the last rat. "Like anything, the spell
      takes practice and a certain mindset." He gestured and the three
      cages containing dead rats vanished. "Rise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The class did so, and just as soon as Harry's feet hit the
      ground the desks before the first years vanished. At the front of
      the class room stood twenty pedestals containing live caged rats.
      Professor Quirrell had the people closest try their hand at the
      spell. Between him, and Lucius Malfoy, it took the whole of five
      minutes to instruct and correct the children's gestures before
      having them actually perform the spell, wands clearly pointing at
      the rats, and no one else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a chorus of "Avada Kedavra" at which no rat was
      killed, not even a flicker of light. The first years looked to one
      another, not sure what to expect. Professor Quirrell had them try
      five more times before switching to the next group. While the next
      group was instructed, Lucius Malfoy set about the classroom,
      speaking to clusters of children before they were called up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't imagine what sort of instruction Lucius would be
      giving. It seemed it'd be some time before he'd reach Harry and the
      crowd of Hufflepuffs and Gryffindors that were drawing closer and
      closer to him. If they came any nearer they'd be huddled right next
      to him. It was as if they completely forgot the whole affair with
      Tracy Davis, or perhaps it was because of that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blaise Zabini was among the first to issue a spray of green
      light from his wand. He smirked with pride and welcomed the
      applause from the Slytherin's, but his flash was followed by
      Draco's spark that actually went a few feet before fading. Draco
      looked up and met Harry's eyes with a grin before taking his seat
      amongst the Slytherins and those who had not tried, or not
      succeeded from that house quickly congregated around him. A
      surprising number of Ravenclaw's did as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracy Davis managed something of a squirt her third attempt, and
      sneered at the classmates who'd failed next to her, but she wasn't
      the only one having success. A number of Ravenclaws and a handful
      of Gryffindors were producing flickers of light as well. It seemed
      Lucius's instruction was indeed helpful. And by the time he reached
      the back row, Harry was quite interested what advice he had to
      give.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, upon reaching the group of nervous looking Hufflepuffs
      and Gryffindors, Malfoy only sneered at them and said. "I know a
      lost cause when I see one," and turned to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Harry said, though part of him shared the relief with
      the first years gathered round. However, his curiosity wouldn't
      settle for it. "I'd like to hear what you told everyone else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius turned and regarded Harry. "The spell might come easier
      to those who have some understanding of death," his eyes flickered
      to the rest of the first years. "If any of you have family to
      suffer from this past war, thinking of them might prove helpful."
      And with that, he turned and strode away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wondered at that piece of advice. How would thinking of
      someone you'd rather be alive help you kill? Maybe he'd said it to
      be deliberately unhelpful. Harry was about to go and ask Tracy what
      Malfoy had told her, but his group was called next to the
      front.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed the aura of doom was particularly strong today. Harry
      had only crossed halfway to the pedestals before he felt the
      beginnings of it. It was almost an intolerable distraction when he
      reached the pedestal. If the Defense Professor noticed the strain,
      he gave no sign of it. However, he did keep a greater distance from
      the rest of the students than he had with the others who'd come
      forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As with the other first years, Professor Quirrell had them
      master the gesture before attempting the spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Any advice?</em> Harry asked his inner circle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Why waste time bothering with us? You know what you have to
      do.</em> Quipped Slytherin. Only Ravenclaw was in disagreement, but
      that was only because it wanted to see if <em class="calibre9">not</em> consulting
      his dark side would produce different results.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Avada Kedavra!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had missed the first try. He hadn't seen any flashes of
      light to either side of him, but that might have been because
      people were once again watching to see how he'd do on the
      extracurricular spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, focus on your own wand work. Potter, I take a point
      from Ravenclaw for lack of effort. Again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Okay.</em> Harry didn't close his eyes. He started the
      gesture, along with everyone else, eyes focused on the rat. He
      needed to get angry. What could possibly set him off enough to make
      him want to break his resolution that everyone ought to live
      forever?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Please, not Harry! Take me! Take me instead!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Very well, I accept the bargain. Yourself to die, and the
      child to live. Now drop your wand so that I can murder
      you.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">His blood temperature was dropping rapidly, all this came to him
      in the matter of seconds it took to get halfway through the first
      gestures of the spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">There is nothing human left in him. Him you must destroy.
      You must not hesitate, when the time comes. To him alone, of all
      the creatures in this world, you must show no mercy; and when you
      are done you must forget it, forget that you ever did such a thing,
      and go back to living. Save your fury for that, and that
      alone.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He remembered the crimson eyes, the voice of death, and the high
      cold laugh. Oddly it was not fiery rage that filled Harry the
      moment before he released the spell. In that moment, just when his
      temperature seemed to hit somewhere in the negatives, he felt no
      anger at all as his dark side stirred and took over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rat needed killing. That was all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">"Avadakedavra,"</em> the spell ran off as one word from
      Harry's lips, seamless and complete. And it came as no surprise to
      him to see the jet of green light issue out of the end of his wand
      and strike the rat. It did not so much as squeak before going
      limp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry felt nothing. No simmering rage. No ominous
      resolution. The rat was dead. Harry had willed it to die, and so it
      did.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">(1) (not word for word but still) Chapter 43: Humanism, Pt 1 -
      Less Wrong Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(2) Chapter 43: Humanism, Pt 1 - Less Wrong Harry Potter and the
      Methods of Rationality</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(3) Chapter 76: SA After, Surface Appearances - Harry Potter and
      the Methods or Rationality</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
