<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>14. Dark Lord Material - Dark Lord Material Chapter 8 The Pact, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="14. Dark Lord Material"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: The Pact</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Hey, just wanted to first give a shout out to Less
      Wrong, and whoever runs The Methods or Rationality webpage. Just
      wanted to say thank you for adding Dark Lord Material to the list
      of fanfictions. I wasn't expecting that. Though I'm sure you people
      do it for every fanfiction for Methods or Rationality, but still
      its a cool of you to do that. So... THANK YOU!</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Anyway, here are chapter.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Thanks Theonebutcher for the name of the
      book.</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter Eight</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">The Pact</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">To avoid having to deal with the now not so frightened student
      body of Hogwarts, Harry left the Great Hall earlier than he usually
      would have. Greenhouse One was not located within the castle and
      only a complete idiot would get lost finding it, especially after
      spending over a semester at Hogwarts. Otherwise, Harry might have
      used that excuse and purposely arrived late for class just to
      further put off the host of overly curious students who would not
      be so easily deterred to interview him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry arrived at Greenhouse one early, early enough that even
      Professor Sprout had not arrived to prepare the day's lesson. The
      Greenhouse was locked, so he couldn't even go in there and pretend
      to be doing something productive. Instead he plopped down on the
      ground and pulled out 'One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi' and
      began sifting through it, not really taking anything in. He'd
      already read the book entirely twice and it wasn't because he
      enjoyed it ever so much. He had rushed through it so quickly the
      first time he hardly remembered a word of it, not that he'd ever
      admit that to Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione… He was more than a little concerned with what she
      would try to get him out of detention. At least he could trust that
      she wouldn't do anything too drastic. She was a rule abiding
      student after all… uh maybe not anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sounds of someone approaching caught Harry's attention and
      without thinking he looked up from 'One Thousand Magical Herbs and
      Fungi'. Draco Malfoy and his two goons were making their way
      towards the Greenhouse, the first from Slytherin to arrive that
      day. At a gesture from Draco, Crabbe and Goyle stopped, crossed
      their arms, and frowned menacingly at nobody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco continued to Harry, who watched his approach with an
      expression that made it clear he didn't want to be talked to right
      now. Draco didn't even pause, just blundered over to Harry, drew
      out his wand, and said, "<em class="calibre9">Quietus.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you want?" Harry said, none too kindly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco frowned, but other than that gave no more notice of
      Harry's tone. "We need to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're talking," Harry said irritably and looked back down at
      his book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean privately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one's around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, Potter, this is important," something in Draco's tone
      gave Harry pause, but he did not look up from his book nor did he
      reply. "Meet me-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said cutting him off. Despite Harry's mood, his
      inner Slytherin hissed at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">What are you doing? This is a Malfoy, not some over egger
      Gryffindor, or skimpy Hufflpuff. Apologize!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre9">Bugger off!</em> Harry said. Such was his state that he
      couldn't even be civil with his own imaginary personalities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No?" Draco repeated, and Harry, knowing Draco quite well,
      picked up the edge of annoyance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have time," Harry said curtly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then make time," Draco hissed, losing civility himself. "This
      <em class="calibre9">is</em> important."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just tell me now, no one's around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't just-" Draco took a breath. He bent over, placing a
      hand on the Greenhouse wall that Harry was propped up against. He
      leaned over Harry in a threatening manner and if anyone had been
      watching they would know that the scone of Malfoy was not just
      having a little chat with The Boy Who Lived before class. Luckily,
      no one was around, and when Draco next spoke Harry <em class="calibre9">did</em>
      look up. "It's about our pact," Draco whispered unnecessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked, and slowly closed his book. He hadn't been
      expecting that topic to resurface anytime soon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Harry said slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't talk here," Draco said and tried to give a time and
      meeting place again, but Harry cut him off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Draco, but we have to talk here. I literally do not
      have the time to meet with you, so please make it quick." Harry
      said, just barely keeping his annoyance from his voice. It didn't
      come out apologetic, but at least he was no longer snapping at the
      hair of Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco observed him a moment, still poised above, before removing
      his hand from the wall and squatted down in front of Harry. "Look,"
      he whispered. "Father and I have a chance to unseat Dumbledore and
      if you want in I'd considered part of our pact fulfilled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alarm bells went off in Harry's head, blowing away his former
      sleep deprived bad mood. This <em class="calibre9">was</em> important and not
      something Harry could just back out of. If Lucius Malfoy was
      planning to kill Dumbledore…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't seen any evidence that shows the Headmaster did what
      he did," Harry whispered, forgetting that the action was completely
      unnecessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's lip curled. "I thought you took our friendship
      seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do," Harry insisted. "But, Draco, this is-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Important, yeah, I told you. Look, Harry, I'm fulfilling my
      part of the pact. I've started to at least try to restore
      Slytherin's name. What have you done? Have you put any effort at
      all into finding evidence? I'm sure it wouldn't be hard for you and
      your muggle science to find <em class="calibre9">something</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That hurt. Part of Harry knew Draco was trying to manipulate
      him, or at least suspected he was, but it still hurt and it worked.
      Harry felt guilty. He really hadn't put any effort into looking up
      evidence on Dumbledore, and if he did value Draco's friendship he
      would have at least done that much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry met Draco's disappointed look and he knew that Draco knew
      he hadn't and it just made him feel worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And for some reason Harry thought of Charles Horton Cooley
      theory 'The Looking Glass Self' which explains how a person's
      conception of self arises through considering our relationship to
      others. The theory develops from how we think we appear to others,
      how we think others judge us, and last how the first two make us
      feel. It involves perception and effect, the perception of how
      others see us and the effect of others judgment on us.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even with this rationalization, Harry still felt guilty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, but it's-" Harry began, but Goyle's shout "People
      coming!" cut him off, and Draco abruptly rose and strode casually
      over to Crabbe and Goyle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The more eager Ravenclaw students arrived and Harry noted that
      Hermione was not among them, which gave him more cause for worry.
      Noticing the Ravenclaws had spotted him, Harry opened his book once
      more and made a point of ignoring them. Professor Sprout shortly
      showed up and opened the Greenhouse, after ten or so minutes the
      rest of the class arrived, well everyone besides Hermione and
      Padma, Daphne and Tracy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professors lips pursed together when it was time for class
      and the girls still weren't there. And just as Harry was about to
      make an excuse to go look for them, the four girls stumbled into
      the room, almost one on top of the other and completely out of
      breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Padma panted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's twenty points from Ravenclaw, and twenty points from
      Slytherin and should I learn you girls were starting trouble it'll
      be more than that," Professor Sprout said. There was a flicker of
      something in her facial expression, but it was gone and Harry was
      too distracted to think much of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girls glanced at Hermione, but said nothing and took their
      usual seats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione offered no explanation or apology. She simply took a
      spot beside Harry, (eyeing down the poor Ravenclaw who'd been
      previously sitting next to him.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Professor Sprout started the lesson, Hermione whispered
      "<em class="calibre9">Quietus,</em>" which surprised Harry, though at this point he
      really should have learned better. She turned to him and whispered.
      "We need to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at her.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
