<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>30. Continuing HPMoR: Reductionism for the Win - Continuing HPMoR: Reductionism for the Win Chapter 2: Questions, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="30. Continuing HPMoR: Reductionism for the Win"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Questions</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">3AM, October 7th, 1992</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, What have you done?!" Albus Dumbledore shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry partially awoke, slowly opened his eyes, and replied "I
      expected you to be more shocked and upset, actually." He picked up
      his watch. "So can we have this meeting in your office maybe an
      hour before breakfast? I had a long day yesterday, even by yours or
      my standards. Oh, you brought Professors McGonagall and Snape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," began McGonagall, "this is quite serious. By scaring
      the Dementors away from Azkaban, you may have given the prisoners a
      brief rest, but you've potentially exposed many more people,
      innocent people, to danger. Eventually, the Dementors will all be
      caught and returned to Azkaban, so this was all for nothing. Why
      would you do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat up, not quite fully awake. "Oh, this is about
      Azkaban." Snape's and Dumbledore's faces quickly returned to
      neutral expressions, while McGonagall made no attempt to hide her
      shock, as all of them wondered what else he could have done that
      night. Harry paused, turned back to Dumbledore, and began "So you
      don't trust her? Interesting." He turned back to McGonagall. "I
      understand Dementors on a level few, if any, others do. My Patronus
      can totally block their ability to see people or cause fear and can
      even destroy them. I did not chase the Dementors away from Azkaban.
      They no longer exist. And Dumbledore has known for months that I
      had that ability and planned to do this eventually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why now, Harry?", asked Dumbledore. "Why not wait to influence
      the government, to do it legally, rather than imposing your will on
      everyone? This time, there was no urgency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You remember the night after Hermione's trial, when the phoenix
      came to me? The rules you told me about phoenixes may be the way
      most of them choose to behave but are not unbreakable rules
      governing their behavior. Most are looking for a stereotypical
      Gryffindor who's willing to fight to the death against dark lords
      or other immediate threats. Those phoenixes interpret any answer
      other than an immediate 'yes' as a 'no'; they don't want someone
      who hesitates or thinks very much. But I'm not a stereotypical
      Gryffindor. My quest was not against that kind of immediate threat,
      but against the kinds of systemic evil that most people are blind
      to, and would never even think of fighting. The phoenix that chose
      me knew that, and wanted to do things a different way, to go on
      missions typical wizards would not attempt, and interpreted my
      'come back in 6 months' as a 'yes, delayed by six months' because
      she was willing to wait. I was on the roof last night when she
      returned. I named her Rogue, because of her tolerance for, let's
      say chaos. And after the X-men character. Even though her powers
      were more reminiscent of Dementors, taking memories and life force
      and abilities. This story would be less rambley at not-3-AM by the
      way." The phoenix had appeared above his head at the mention of her
      name. The professors were staring at the phoenix and dropped most
      of what Harry had said from their short-term memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was no way I was going to ask her to wait a second time.
      Making mistakes is normal, but there's no excuse for making the
      same mistake twice. We went immediately to the lowest level of
      Azkaban. I cut a hole overlooking the central pit and sent my
      Patronus down. I brightened it for 30 seconds or so, destroyed as
      many Dementors as I could, then took a break for a few minutes
      before repeating the process. I didn't want Rogue to expend any
      more magic healing me than necessary. The guards must have known
      something was wrong, because they started patrolling the hallways
      after a while, but we weren't in the hallways, and they didn't
      check the cells. Presumably because the Dementors told them no
      prisoners were missing, and they weren't aware of anything unusual
      going on. After about an hour I destroyed them all, and put a hole
      in the outer wall between patrols. I'm sure you can guess how we
      got out of the perimeter where the Azkaban wards are in
      effect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore, "That phoenix is a baby, Harry. It's regenerated in
      the past few hours. What were you saving her magic for? What was
      your real-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is someone else here. With an invisibility cloak." Snape
      said suddenly. "Reveal yourself immediately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pulled off the cloak and stood up. She looked scared,
      but no one noticed her expression. They were too distracted by her
      robes, which were torn and caked in dried blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"HARRY, WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?!" Dumbledore, McGonagall, and Snape
      shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now Hermione looked very scared and very confused. "Harry, did
      you do something you should have asked me about first? We just
      talked about that two weeks ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just smiled broadly. Rogue made eye contact with each of
      them, then let out a triumphant cry *we won*.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes appeared, and just as quickly disappeared along with
      Dumbledore and Hermione. Harry lied back down. "I'm either going to
      follow them or go back to sleep. Either way, there's no reason for
      you two to stay here." McGonagall and Snape, without saying a word
      or even exchanging a glance, turned and walked out of the
      trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Rogue, this is totally my fault and not yours, but next
      time, assume that I meant to include stuff people are wearing and
      carrying unless I say otherwise." Harry fell back asleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">7AM, October 7th, 1992</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry awoke and went through his morning routine. Afterwards, he
      called out "Rogue... is Hermione still in the Headmaster's office?"
      She appeared at her name, flickered briefly, then nodded. "Okay,
      let's get this over with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked over at Harry. "Ouch" he said, putting a hand
      to his forehead. Everyone else turned away from Harry to look at
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" several people inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had a flash of self-awareness. It was unpleasant. Is it
      really, really annoying to people when Fawkes and I show up?" No
      one answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione turned to Harry. She was still wearing the blood-soaked
      robes, and it was clear she had been crying. "Harry, what is going
      on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have they told you so far?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing. They won't even say a single word to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is kind of hard to talk to you while... Scourgify. That's
      much better. What have they been doing for the past four
      hours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Casting charms and spells at me and talking to each other so I
      can't hear them. I recognized some of the spells, but can't tell
      what they're trying to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on a second. Rogue, stay with Hermione." The phoenix
      perched on her shoulder and she started to feel a bit better. Harry
      jogged to the side of the office, calling out "Phoenix's Price". He
      ran up the staircase that appeared, calling "Phoenix's Fate".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus, why would you show him that room? No child should see
      that." McGonagall addressed Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wanted him to see the consequences of fighting. He is much
      too eager to fight every battle. Clearly it was too little too
      late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ran back down the stairs carrying a wand. He handed it to
      Hermione saying "here, pick whichever of those noisy things is
      annoying you the most, cast wingardium, and throw it into a wall.
      Don't ask, just trust me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She paused, with a visible effort not to ask, then lifted her
      wand. Harry, with exaggerated movements, had put away his own wand,
      and was holding his palms open. "Wingardium Leviosa". She lifted a
      small object making an intermittent high pitched whine, and slung
      it across the room. "That felt good", Hermione commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to the professors. "How many of the hypotheses
      you've been testing for the past four hours does that falsify?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you should not have given her a wand. You have no idea-"
      McGonagall stepped toward Hermione, and Rogue flew up to her, at
      eye level and screamed loudly. McGonagall involuntarily gasped and
      backed up into the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked and said "Enough, Rogue. Do come back here, you're
      terrifying that poor professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall was confused for a moment, but then remembered and
      got Harry's point. "I'm so sorry...", she said, stepping forward
      and hugging Hermione. Another part of her mind wondered whether
      Harry had used that same type of righteous anger to scare the
      Dementor. She had been unable to talk to anyone about her own fear,
      that Harry could somehow be darker and more terrible than a
      Dementor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape spoke, "To answer your question, Mr. Potter, nearly all of
      them. Clearly she is a living witch, other than that, we checked
      for polyjuice and metamorphism. The only possibility that remains
      is that this is Ms. Granger. Somehow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, will you please tell me what's going on now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay..." Harry closed his eyes. " The short version is that
      Fred, George, and I were trying to find Hermione when the troll was
      in Hogwarts. We arrived too late and she died." Harry could barely
      get the sentences out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," she interrupted, "I'M Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I didn't die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you didn't. But that doesn't change the fact that we saw
      and felt it happen. But that's fixed now, and things can go back to
      the way they're supposed to be. They'll take you home to tell your
      parents you're alive and it was all a mistake, and then you'll
      bring your stuff back here and start classes again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said the troll was charmed, and my stuff was sabotaged. It
      wasn't an accident. Someone was trying to kill me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. Draco and I swore vengeance together. You should have seen
      it; it was almost beautiful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco swore... It wasn't Lucius, then? Professor Quirrell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. You did warn me about him."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
