<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Mary Poppins Begins the End - Mary Poppins Begins the End, a Harry Potter + Mary Poppins Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Mary Poppins Begins the End"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: Neither "ElizabethRobinThales" nor her orthonym
      accept responsibility for any Everett Branches created by your
      decision to read this work of fanfiction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Notes: I'm not sure how commonly Mary Poppins' origin
      in mysticism is known. As far as I can tell, no other fanfic on
      either FF dot net or AO3 utilizes this aspect of the Mary Poppins
      stories in any capacity, so I think it would be prudent to clarify
      some things so you can have a better idea of what to expect going
      forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">P.L. Travers held a set of beliefs that would fall under the
      general umbrella of "Western esotericism." Her writing was markedly
      influenced by the occult and by Blavatskian Theosophy (which in
      turn was inspired by Hinduism and Buddhism and Neo-Platonism). She
      sprinkled a bit of Jungian nonsense in there as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is not a romance or a familial drama or a variation on the
      common theme of "a concerned adult rescues Harry Potter from a
      neglectful upbringing." Mary Poppins' young ward in this story may
      happen to be the main character of HPMOR, but this is first and
      foremost a Mary Poppins story in the spirit of the original books
      (with some structure and arrangement inspired by the movies - the
      books may be rich with Eastern symbolism, but they're relatively
      poor in plot, amounting to little more than a series of barely
      connected vignettes).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, this fic <em class="calibre7">probably</em> isn't an infohazard. Just
      throwin' that out there for no reason, don't worry about it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">MARY POPPINS</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">ENKINDLES</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">THE</strong> <strong class="calibre9">END OF ALL THINGS</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Chapter 1 - Harry's Oxford</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">If you're looking for Number Eleven, Paper Street - a small,
      dingy-looking old house whose occupants mostly use it to keep the
      rain off their books - you won't soon find it if you sally forth at
      once towards the neighborhoods east of Florence Park in hopes that
      you'll eventually stumble across it while wandering aimlessly
      through the streets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No... Your best bet is to make a beeline for the local
      Recreation Ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the outskirts of the park in an open green, far from the
      slides and swings and other such trappings of childhood sport, you
      should see a lone oak tree - its red leaves mottled with splotches
      of yellow and brown - with a school satchel leaning against its
      trunk and a young boy sitting on its lowest-hanging branch reading
      a book considerably thicker than what might be expected for his
      age.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This, conveniently enough, is Number Eleven's youngest resident,
      Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres - bibliophile, self-described
      'aspiring rationalist', and somehow connected with the summoning of
      a total of <em class="calibre7">three</em> fire engines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry isn't legally allowed to be in public right now. His
      father told him as much before leaving for work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where do you think you're going, young man?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's hand had already been grasping the doorknob. "Well I
      haven't been out of school for even a day yet so my brain is still
      running on a school schedule and I'd normally already be walking to
      school by now so I thought I'd take some nonfiction books to the
      park and read them there instead of here so I won't be tempted by
      all our other books or the television."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Number Eleven is less than ten minutes' walk from St. Menas
      Primary, and the park is midway between them. Harry's parents
      usually didn't arrive home from work until nearly dusk, so he had
      developed a habit of stopping at the park after school, ostensibly
      to do his homework.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The weekly vocabulary was a joke, and the daily maths never took
      longer than ninety seconds to complete (it <em class="calibre7">was</em> intended
      for seven-year-olds, after all, and most seven-year-olds don't know
      what a logarithm is). But once he'd gotten the government-mandated
      twaddle out of the way, Harry would spend the rest of the afternoon
      reading while sitting on what he was starting to think of as
      <em class="calibre7">his</em> branch (though we might note that the branch does
      <em class="calibre7">not,</em> in fact, belong to Harry, it belongs to the
      tree).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His father - an Oxford biochemistry professor named Michael
      Verres-Evans - sighed. "We haven't pulled you out of the school
      system yet, Harry. If you're seen in public during school hours,
      I'll get a fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The day before, Harry had been given a three-day fixed-period
      exclusion for biting his third-year maths teacher (she didn't know
      what a logarithm was). He stayed in the park for an extra hour that
      evening, sullenly resenting the rest of the world for having the
      nerve to be so <em class="calibre7">bloody</em> stupid, and anxiously brooding over
      the possibility of losing his television privileges when his
      parents found out what he'd done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While he <em class="calibre7">did</em> lose his television privileges for a week,
      his parents had reacted less irrationally than he anticipated. They
      actually agreed with his assessment that it would be in the best
      interests of all parties involved if he were privately tutored.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much will they fine you if I'm caught outside?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sixty pounds sterling."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's father then expressed the sentiment that he was probably
      making a terrible mistake and shouldn't ought to be leaving Harry
      alone for even a single day, and impressed upon Harry that he would
      be <em class="calibre7">quite put out</em> should it come to light that Harry had so
      much as opened the front door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to spend <em class="calibre7">every fr</em><em class="calibre7">ee moment</em> between
      classes phoning around for a reputable childcare agency. If things
      pan out, I'll have found someone to watch you by tomorrow, so how
      about if we postpone the television embargo until there's an adult
      around to enforce it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked back at the door, and noticed that his hand hadn't
      yet released its hold on the doorknob.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His father sighed again (Harry <em class="calibre7">did</em> notice that adults
      would sigh more often while talking to <em class="calibre7">him</em> than while
      talking to other children, but he couldn't seem to figure out
      why).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's unseasonably cold out there, son. Just stay inside and
      watch the telly. If you don't, I'm going to give it away and we
      won't get a replacement until Christmas. Don't do that to your poor
      mother, you know how she likes her evening programs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let go of the doorknob.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Please</em> try to have a bit of self-discipline today,
      Harry. Don't set anything on fire or get into any other sort of
      mischief <em class="calibre7">but especially don't set anything on fire.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Verres-Evans knew his son well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not one hour after Harry's mother - Petunia Evans-Verres - left
      for work at the local Barclays, Harry found himself staring out the
      window. <em class="calibre7">No one's out and about,</em> he thought. <em class="calibre7">Most
      people are probably either at school or at work right now. And it's
      less than a five minute walk. No one would see me...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And on a split-second decision Harry jumped up, threw on a light
      jacket, and began stuffing books into his satchel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">o</strong>-<strong class="calibre9">o</strong>-<strong class="calibre9">o</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wind abruptly intensified and the branches over Harry's head
      began to sway dramatically. Reading in these conditions was going
      to be a chore. Harry would have suspected a storm, but it was a
      bright and cloudless day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Maybe I should just go home,</em> he thought. <em class="calibre7">I didn't
      think to bring any snacks and it's about time for -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A particularly strong gust snatched the book right out of
      Harry's hands and carried it off just as a deep, snapping
      <em class="calibre7">crack</em> came from higher in the tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Yep, it's time to go.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swung himself down to the ground, but the wind died down
      and stagnated the very moment his feet touched the grass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Typical,</em> he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stephen King's <em class="calibre7">The Gunslinger</em> - the book Harry had been
      reading before the wind so thoughtlessly blew it away - was sitting
      several metres from the base of the tree in the middle of the
      green. Harry retrieved it, then paused and looked up at the sky.
      The world at large seemed not to have taken any notice of the
      anomalous burst of blusteriness. It would be easy to just climb
      back into the tree and forget that anything had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Well, I suppose it's for the best that it happened,
      anyway.</em> <em class="calibre7">Mum very well might sacrifice her lunch break to
      come home and... make sure that I'm not...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The air was completely still, yet the leaves were still rustling
      in a most peculiar manner. Harry glanced back out of curiosity and,
      to his utter disbelief, a woman was <em class="calibre7">standing on</em> <em class="calibre7">the
      top of the tree</em> as though the leaves formed a solid
      surface.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Harry blinked again, but the woman was still atop the
      tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"H-hey!" he yelled. "<em class="calibre7">How</em> on <em class="calibre7">earth</em> did you get
      up there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman looked down at him sharply. Her expression was angry,
      outraged, and astonished all at once. "I'll thank you to mind your
      own business, Mr. Potter-Evans-Verres!" She didn't shout, but her
      voice carried regardless. "As it were, I have <em class="calibre7">always</em> been
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know my - But there wasn't anybody in the - It isn't
      possible to have <em class="calibre7">always</em> -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everything is possible. Even the impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fixed her with a look. "Ma'am? That is
      <em class="calibre7">absurd.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What an <em class="calibre7">impertinent</em> thing to say!" The woman sniffed.
      "Haven't your parents taught you to respect your elders?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I respect the truth." Harry's gaze held steady. He had
      encountered adults like this before (or so he thought).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. Is <em class="calibre7">that</em> why you bit Mrs. Aldwinkle? She lied to
      you about not knowing what a logarithm is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was taken aback. "How could you <em class="calibre7">possibly</em> know
      about that? Who the bloody heck <em class="calibre7">are</em> you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wind again gained in strength. The branches of the tree bent
      wildly, creaking and groaning in protest, but the woman calmly
      began to walk <em class="calibre7">-</em> not climb, but <em class="calibre7">walk</em> - down the
      branches as though they formed a spiral staircase. Every step she
      took just so happened to land on a branch that had been blown out
      of place by the wind, and the attachment points of several branches
      perceptibly repositioned themselves higher up or lower down along
      the trunk to more readily accommodate the strange woman's
      walking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh my god she's magic, there's no such thing as magic but
      apparently that doesn't</em> <em class="calibre7">matter.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was closer to the ground now, and the branches were
      helpfully moving themselves out of the way of Harry's view. Her
      hair was shiny and black. She wore a long blue coat with silver
      buttons and a blue hat to match, and she was holding a carpet bag
      and an umbrella with a handle shaped like a parrot's head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No... She</em> <em class="calibre7">couldn't</em> <em class="calibre7">be...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The final step in the emergent spiral staircase was Harry's own
      branch (which, despite being the lowest-hanging branch and seeming
      to be at least a foot closer to the ground than he remembered, was
      still more than two feet higher off the ground than Harry was
      tall). And then somehow, impossibly, the woman continued walking
      down as though she hadn't noticed that she ought to have
      fallen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could no longer contain himself. "You're Mary Poppins!" he
      shouted, just as the woman alighted primly upon the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"I beg your pardon?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the wind," said Harry. "Mary Poppins <em class="calibre7">always</em> comes
      down out of the sky with the wind - just like <em class="calibre7">you've</em> just
      done - and you're dressed like her, and <em class="calibre7">everything</em> about
      what just happened blatantly violated the laws of physics, and
      -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman harrumphed. "Well you already know the name,
      presumably by means of some sort of narrative depiction -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a series of books, <em class="calibre7">and</em> they made a movie
      adaption, though you don't look like Julie Andrews -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I don't look like Julie Andrews! Julie Andrews is
      Julie Andrews and I am myself!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't an outright denial. Any sane, rational person who
      was <em class="calibre7">not</em> Mary Poppins would <em class="calibre7">certainly</em> scoff at
      being directly accused of being Mary Poppins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You observed the impossible,</em> Harry thought to himself.
      <em class="calibre7">Your first impulse was to label it 'magic'</em>. <em class="calibre7">You have
      to accept your observations as fact. It would still be true even if
      she DID deny it, she's DEFINITELY Mary Poppins.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided to carry on as though it were a given that the
      woman was, in fact, Mary Poppins. "You're quite a well known
      fictional character, you know. I don't know what business you think
      you have showing up here in the real world but -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Every</em> world is a <em class="calibre7">real</em> world. It's
      <em class="calibre7">quite</em> arrogant to presume that any particular one of them
      is more 'real' than the rest for something as trivial as simply
      adhering more tightly to the laws of probability and causality than
      average. And <em class="calibre7">if</em> that <em class="calibre7">were</em> the basis for
      determining so-called 'realness', then by virtue of your having
      observed my arrival, this world couldn't be as 'real' as you
      believe it to be, now, could it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now then... Young as you must have been when you saw that
      movie, surely you watched it with your parents - Or perhaps the
      movie is decades old by now and would have been widely known when
      your parents were younger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes narrowed. "Why does <em class="calibre7">that</em> matter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't, but that's how these situations tend to pan out."
      She turned and took a step, then paused and looked back. "I never
      introduced myself, did I? How <em class="calibre7">dreadfully</em> rude of me." She
      smiled, and it didn't quite reach her eyes. "I am Helena Vela
      Boot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No you're not, you're -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come along now, you need to get home before your nosy neighbor
      phones the authorities. Don't dawdle, spit spot!"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
