<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Final Revision - HPMOR - Final Revision, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Final Revision"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I don</em><em class="calibre7">'t own Harry Potter, Rationalist Harry, or any
      other Harry.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is a partial response to the Final Exam challenge in
      Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality by Less Wrong.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For most of a minute Harry thought, everything from partial
      transfiguration to the Patronus 2.0 crossed his mind, he knew
      things that Voldemort wished to know. He knew ways to kill or
      merely incapacitate most if not all of the death eaters, though
      most of the methods subtle enough to go unnoticed required more
      than a minute to enact. But he could not get rid of the threat to
      himself and the only way to get rid of the threat to his friends
      and family was by removing the dark lord's ability to use magic. He
      was almost fifty percent sure he could summon his patronus inside
      Azkaban or anywhere else he chose but he wasn't sure he could
      direct it usefully without seeing what it was doing. And with the
      evidence of the dark lord's ability to turn people into
      troll-unicorn hybrids, partial transfiguration seemed like it was
      too overpowered to give away. Even the path to reach it which the
      dark lord claimed to already be following was dangerous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<strong class="calibre8">I see that I lose, Tom Riddle," said Harry, "I see that
      you have won, and if you are telling the truth about the prophecy
      and preventing great disaster to the first and so far only known
      world of humans, then I am forced to acknowledge that I am thankful
      that you have won. I see that all of the knowledge I have
      accumulated in the hopes of fixing the world must either die with
      me or be passed on to you.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<strong class="calibre8">Since we are speaking the truth, without the headmaster
      here listening, I can tell you more about the life-eaters and the
      silver charm. I did not speak of it in front of him because he does
      not see clearly, and does not hate death the way You and I and
      girl-child do. I feared that had I explained in his presence, his
      silver charm might have no longer have functioned. I did not yet
      understand how closely you had approached true life, I thought you
      might still fear death too much to cast it. Now I think you may be
      close.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<strong class="calibre8">Speak faster, you waste time speaking about
      speaking,"</strong> hissed Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<strong class="calibre8">The life-eaters are the little-deaths, that you once
      mentioned knowing correct dance to summon,"</strong> continued
      Harry, half regretting giving the information away, yet patronus
      instruction might not work without it, <strong class="calibre8">"My silver charm
      works because one day all death will be banished from the world,
      perhaps by muggle science, perhaps by magic like red stone, perhaps
      by other means, other knowledge such as your own ritual, but
      changed to not require evil sacrifice. My silver charm works
      because I know that death will one day fail, and that humans will
      deserve to take up the true meaning of life, that we will one day
      walk between the stars as gods, fearing neither death nor
      injury.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<strong class="calibre8">It will be a fitting legacy for both of us that
      Hermione, the most good of every being I know, is the firstborn of
      the immortals.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<strong class="calibre8">It shall be said, 'Death is swallowed up in victory.'
      The last enemy to be defeated is death."</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And thinking about that good news and desiring that all the
      little deaths in Azkaban should hear of it and retire from the
      world, he cast. His wand stayed pointed at the ground, but the
      destination he desired was metal fortress on a small island in the
      north sea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<strong class="calibre8">Expect Patron!"</strong> it was odd casting in fake
      parceltongue rather than in fake Latin but he could feel the spell
      take, and begin to drain him how it had the day they'd given
      Bellatrix Black a portion of her freedom, and drain him more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort made a slow clap, "It looks like your spell
      failed,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sweat poured from his whole body in the chill night air,
      <strong class="calibre8">"It did not fail, I called it where it is needed,
      little-death cage is now empty. Is not the legacy that I wished,
      but is sufficient,"</strong> Harry collapsed to the earth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You stupid fool, I can replenish Azkaban with what you have
      taught me, What then is your sacrifice worth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The collapsed body rolled over only slightly leaving the wand
      behind on the ground, <strong class="calibre8">"Hope, when you give populace hope,
      few of them strive to do better. Headmaster thought real life would
      get tiresome for us, I say it only takes a few people striving to
      make world better would keep world interesting. Some might cease to
      strive if given real life, others like us would strive all the more
      when they know they will still be around to see the payoff of their
      work."</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">"You wasted your last minute to tell me
      that?"</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">"Not dead yet, just tired,"</strong> Harry breathed,
      <strong class="calibre8">"Also you won't summon more little deaths, they are only
      predator left you fear. Only they can hold your dead life and keep
      it from searching out new host. Surprised you even threaten it. Was
      surprised you didn't take me to each life-eater cage and colony and
      wipe them all out before you threaten to kill me. But is too late,
      don't have magic left to cast silver charm again this
      week."</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched in carefully hidden triumph as Voldimort's mask
      strengthened, a sure sign that something underneath was going
      badly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8">"Girl-child will learn the real silver charm
      someday,"</strong> hissed Harry, <strong class="calibre8">"perhaps she will aid you
      in removing last of your common enemies,"</strong> and heaving a
      last breath, <strong class="calibre8">"I know many interesting things that I do not
      wish to die with me, yet to tell you would endanger the world more
      than letting them be forgotten."</strong> and then in English,
      "Good bye, father,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And at that cue about twenty mouths hidden behind skull masks
      grunted, "Stupefy," and nearly as many called out, "Crucio," or the
      killing curse, and about sixty beams of red and green light lanced
      in and hit the prone figure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Noo!" screamed Voldemort before his control reformed and his
      mask dropped back into place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Six hours later with death eaters already away and preparing for
      their subtle blitzkrieg of the ministry. And nothing was left
      anywhere in the world that could in any way be identified as the
      body of Harry James Potter, Tom M. Riddle's first and probably only
      for a while, failed experiment at making a friend worthy of that
      name.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The late defence professor was also properly disposed of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone wearing the necessary glamours to mimic the appearance
      of the late defence professor, cast the correct series of charms to
      wake Hermione and put on his least creepy attitude in order not to
      give her too much of a shock first thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The hell am I?" she squeaked and sat up to look around at the
      graveyard, and took special note of the sinking gibbous moon. And
      different inner voices rushed through the calculations required to
      estimate from it the time of night, as any competent student of
      astronomy ought to be able to do with an accuracy of about three
      hours. (it is far easier to tell where in the sky the moon is, than
      to tell exactly how gibbous it is)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the internal Ravenclaw!Harry seemed to have a much more
      precise estimate of how gibbous the moon should be, and seemed to
      be working from a date at least a month off from the date that
      Dominant!Hermione was working from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening," said the defence professor, "I brought you back
      to life as a favour to Harry Potter, shall we return to
      Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">He thinks he heard a prophecy about me sacrificing the world
      to bring you back, and made me promise never to do that, without
      consulting you regarding risk assessment and other similar
      things</em>, explained internal exposition!Harry, <em class="calibre7">But I figure
      he heard a prophecy about himself sacrificing his place in the
      world by scaring me into becoming a worthy opponent, which
      apparently I</em><em class="calibre7">'m nowhere close to being yet.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Of course not,</em> said Hermione, <em class="calibre7">we</em><em class="calibre7">'re only
      twelve.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You</em><em class="calibre7">'re twelve, I'm eleven,</em> said internal
      Harry. Which was odd since her internal representation of Harry
      never worried about that before. <em class="calibre7">Ooh grab my stuff for me.</em>
      Which was another odd thing for internal Harry to say. And made her
      realise that Harry's stuff was strewn all around as if he'd been
      here and left … after being incapacitated and stripped… <em class="calibre7">or
      stripped and incapacitate. But why?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably so," said Hermione, her voice much shakier than a
      Hero's should be, especially after surviving a troll and getting
      her legs back, <em class="calibre7">wait was that all a bad dream?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No, it wasn</em><em class="calibre7">'t a dream</em>, said internal
      exposition!Harry, and buzzed through a long story about his life
      being a dark useless place without her around, and the school year
      being over and so many details about it that when he was done she
      felt like she'd been there every step of the way. She hadn't
      remembered Harry's descriptions being so colourful before, it was
      as if she could remember the events he described but from his
      perspective rather than her own. Well according to him, her
      perspective was being dead and a transfigured ring on his toe.
      <em class="calibre7">Ew.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione climbed down off the alter without accepting the
      defence professor's offered hand, "are ... aren't these Harry's
      things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I notice no overriding feeling of doom from being around the
      defence professor</em>, mentioned observer!Harry, <em class="calibre7">I deduce it
      has something to do with the ending of the prohibition against
      interacting with the dark lord or with existing inside
      Hermione</em><em class="calibre7">'s body.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oh, is that what</em><em class="calibre7">'s going on?</em> Thought Hermione,
      <em class="calibre7">What are you doing here precisely? I mean, you</em><em class="calibre7">'re a
      good friend, but a girl likes a certain amount of privacy, you
      know.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I infer by summing the system of equations</em> <em class="calibre7">'the
      patronus 2.0 requires a bit of oneself to cast' and 'creating a
      horcrux (v1.0) requires fracturing one's soul via murder and
      placing that splinter in a different vessel' and 'we used the
      patronus 2.0 to add a missing piece to Hermione's existence in
      order to bring her back to life' and 'my internal chronology has
      only about four hours missing from being the target of several
      killing curses until waking up inside Hermione' that the we get the
      working hypothesis, 'Hermione is our horcrux v2.1' and 'Hermione
      was already our horcrux when Voldemort used the horcrux v1.1 ritual
      to make Bacon's diary into our horcrux.'</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I wish you lot wouldn</em><em class="calibre7">'t talk like I wasn't
      here,</em> thought Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We sincerely apologise</em>, said slytherin!Harry, <em class="calibre7">we
      aren</em><em class="calibre7">'t quite used to having you here, or rather we aren't
      quite used to being here with you, I hope you don't mind that I've
      taken the liberty to update your internal Harry to better reflect
      us, and our internal Hermione to better reflect you.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Uhh,</em> thought Hermione, <em class="calibre7">that might be the exact
      opposite of the privacy I was asking for a moment ago.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Oops, sorry.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said the defence professor, "I'm afraid we had a bit of a
      falling out, and he departed, to sacrifice himself removing the
      threat of dementors from Azkaban,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Hermione didn't seem to be listening, in fact her face
      seemed to give evidence of some titanic struggle taking place
      behind her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Unreliable narrator</em>, noted
      Useless-Literary-Critic!Ravenclaw!Harry, <em class="calibre7">I did sacrifice a lot
      of magic doing that though, but I didn</em><em class="calibre7">'t need to go
      anywhere and I didn't die from that, I died of multiple killing
      curses from death eaters.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I think it</em><em class="calibre7">'s time for you to leave</em>, thought
      Hermione, <em class="calibre7">do you think you have enough magic for that?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She raised her hand in front of her face as if seeing it for the
      first time, and pressed her forefinger against her thumb in a
      characteristic gesture that was not her own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And before the defence professor's watching eyes, in the time
      that the finger fell from tip of thumb to pad of thenar prominance,
      the hand became Harry's hand and he wrenched free of Hermione's
      side as if ducking out from under a curtain, and behind him
      Hermione reformed bringing away a massive chunk of the altar with
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the defence professor's mind was still catching up with
      that impossibility, Harry's muscles bulged as only those of a
      metamorphmagus (or a troll) can, and Harry sprang, bunching his
      hand into a fist. When it contacted, it did not just impart kinetic
      energy but also seemed to reach inside him turning flesh to steel
      until it met a rib which also turned heavy, though the difference
      in density wasn't as obvious, and the steel tendril travelled
      upward turning cartilage and vertebra and cartilage and disk and
      cartilage and vertebra to steel in a steady rhythm until it reached
      the C4 vertebra, and then it solidified inward, cutting off all
      control to, and all communication from his wand arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the defence professor's body went flopping away to land in
      an untidy heap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry found his wand and a chunk of red glass and came over and
      knelt where they could look each other in the eye, "I'm sorry
      professor, but I can't let you die before all those who you've
      sworn to torment or kill have either died a natural death or are
      protected beyond your ability to torment. You understand I'm sure."
      Harry laid the hunk of red glass on the bit of surgical stainless
      that showed on his chest the correct number of seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that should remove the danger of you dying of
      transfiguration poisoning," he said, "Stupify,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me get this straight," said Hermione and summarised the
      whole of everything that Harry remembered since she died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile Harry dressed, and strapped on his pouch and organised
      his other things about his person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Harry when Hermione had finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And," she continued and summarised several things about partial
      transfiguration and about the underlying timeless field theory
      necessary to make it work. And fit action to words by repairing her
      robes with a difficult process that a few days later she would
      remember she could have done more easily with the mending
      charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile Harry went through the fake's defence professor's
      pockets, he found what appeared to be most of a set of teeth.
      Probably the real defence professor's false teeth. Who knew what
      powers or dangers might lurk there. He transfigured a small strong
      box with a six digit combination which he set to the exact atomic
      weight of the most common isotope of calcium, as near as he could
      remember. He thought it was appropriate. He placed the teeth inside
      then fed the whole thing into his pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Harry when Hermione had finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we are trolls and unicorns and are each other's horcruxes?"
      said Hermione, "So we can safely shapeshift through partial
      transfiguration, and heal ourselves naturally and can't die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Basically," said Harry, "although the killing curse seems to
      throw us back into the same body until we can take the time to
      split again. I wouldn't want to do anything to risk both of us
      getting hit at the same time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we can teach others to make horcruxes without murder if
      they can learn your new patronus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there anything we need to be doing right now?" said
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at her for a second before taking a big step back,
      "I said, no kissing!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shrugged, "That's why I asked, so what <em class="calibre7">do</em> we
      need to be doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Going and finding Professor MacGonagall and begging her to get
      Thief's Downfall installed in the ministry atrium before it opens
      tomorrow,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's face twisted up in horror, "Yes, that sounds like
      good step."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And send someone we can trust back here to pick up Voldemort
      and stash him somewhere <em class="calibre7">safe</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you a wizard or not?" sighed Hermione, "Just levitate him,
      Expecto Patronum," and from her wand burst huge cloud of silver
      sparks that quickly formed into an idealized female form. Harry had
      just enough of a glimpse to guess it might be based more on
      Hermione's mother than on his own before he looked away, his face
      heating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wingardium Leviosa," he said and set his face toward the
      castle. Muttering defensivly about having just used up all his
      magic with a patronus 2.0 big enough to cleanse Azkaban, and not
      expecting to have it all back yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind him he heard Hermione instructing her patronus to go to
      Professor MacGonagall, waking her if necessary and request that she
      meet them at the entrance hall. Then the light faded with an almost
      audible snap. And shortly after she was trudging along beside
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry I let you die," he said, if only to break the silence,
      and because he wanted to say it, and estimated that he would never
      get another chance that would be less awkward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I seem to remember you saying that a humongous number of times
      not that long ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm glad I get to say it to you for real,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me too," said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear," said Harry and put the defence professor down,
      "Stupify, stupify, stupify, stupify, stupify, stupify."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's an animagus," said Harry, "Wingardium Leviosa. I'm pretty
      sure if he tried that after what I did to him, it would kill him,
      thus freeing him to reincarnate elsewhere within a month or two,
      not a risk I'm willing to take."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," said Hermione, "What do we do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get someone we can trust ... Alistor Moody probably to help us
      get and administer the potion they use on criminals before putting
      them in Azkaban so that they lose their animagus form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was silent for several minutes, probably processing
      horcrux memories that she hadn't looked into before. "I have the
      distinct feeling," said Hermione, "we should consult him as soon as
      possible regardless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Definitely," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expecto Patronum," said Hermione and stopped walking long
      enough to instruct her patronus with it's new message.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they came up the gates the door swung open to reveal the
      Headmaster, and the Deputy Headmistress, and Alistor Moody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster," said Harry, "I didn't quite expect to see you
      again,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Phoenix fire can travel many places," said Dumbledore, "And
      escape many traps,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is this him?" said Alistor Moody levelling his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Harry, "Don't kill him, but if he stays in coma for
      the next thousand years that's fine with me. He got the stone and
      his old body back but I think he's wearing a glamour or
      several."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's easily dealt with," said Moody, and cast several
      finishing charms of various types and degrees, revealing a black
      robed figure in a skull mask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap," said Harry, "Crap, crap, crap,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I warned you he's sneaky," said Moody, "now may I kill
      him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "I assume you want to interrogate him first, but
      yeah, do what you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait a second," said Hermione, "didn't you fix the
      transfiguration you did to his chest with the philosopher's
      stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it should not have ended from a simple finishing spell?"
      said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then the dark lord substituted a junk rock in place of the
      philosopher's stone while we slept," concluded Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The headmaster chortled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They looked up at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I</em> substituted the philosopher's stone before he even
      got a hold of it, everything he's made with it will fade after a
      few days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Including his body and our bodies," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's face darkened, "Come with me,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," said Hermione, "will it take long? because someone
      should be going to the ministry and getting them ready to hold off
      an onslaught of most of their employees being under Imperious or
      getting ready to put each other under Imperious, or getting stunned
      and replaced by death eaters taking polyjuice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On it," said Moody, and dashed several yards out of the gate
      and apparated away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry and Hermione were seated in Dumbledore's office and
      had refused lemon drops, and Hermione had mostly gotten over the
      pseudo-deja vu of comparing the reality of the headmaster's office
      to the memories that Harry had left behind, Dumbledore asked to see
      Harry's Father's rock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned and took off his ring, and pulled his magic from
      it, causing a drastic acceleration of it's untransfiguration. It
      returned to original size with a wumph.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the first time Hermione had seen it up close and
      personal. She reached out to finger it's rough texture, then
      frowned in surprise and laid her palm flat to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it supposed to be so invigorating to touch?" she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid I told an untruth regarding the nature of this
      rock," said the Headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry copied her and felt drastic amounts of his magic being
      freed up, magic of a similar flavour to that magic he'd just
      retrieved to let the rock untransfigure. "I think," said Harry,
      "that this is the philosopher's stone, and by making our
      transfigurations permanent it returns to us what was spent by our
      troll aspects to put us into reasonably shaped bodies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione seemed to notice that the stone was finished with her
      and pulled her hand away, Harry did likewise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that means," said Hermione, "the cost of our fast healing
      is coming back and touching the stone regularly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The headmaster's eyes twinkled, "so it does, I guess it's good
      that Harry is so accomplished at keeping the stone hidden about his
      person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Hermione looked at each other for several seconds,
      both conversing with their model of the other. It wasn't true
      telepathy, and yet it did greatly increase the accuracy with which
      they could read each other's expressions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione brought out the hunk of red glass, "And this is useful
      in the same way but only as a temporary measure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite so," said the Headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will transfiguring it disrupt-but-not-destroy it in the same
      way?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," said the Headmaster, "I believe so,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," said Hermione and pulled a string from her cloak and
      transfigured it into a ring blank which she touched to the real
      philosopher's stone, then she transfigured the red glass into a
      sapphire which was soon set and the ring slipped onto her
      finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why sapphire?" said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's my birthstone," said Hermione, "and blue doesn't scream,
      'this is a disguised version of a piece of red glass' quite the
      same way a ruby would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. The headmaster twinkled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Given that, in untransfigured form, it is one of the dark
      lord's horcruxes. Will the transfiguration also block the people
      who touch it from being possessed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't the foggiest," said the headmaster, "if you prefer I
      could fake up another and we can destroy that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No point," said Harry, "he claims to have made over a hundred
      of the things, before he stopped counting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear," said the headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's all this then?" said Alistor Moody launching from the
      floo and assessing the situation before landing catlike on his feet
      some distance away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry was just telling me that Voldemort claims to have made
      over a hundred horcruxes before he stopped counting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's changed the process then, if he's still functioning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Harry, "He claimed that too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You better start from the beginning," said Moody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So for the third time that night the Voldemort's triumphal
      assault of the mirror room and resurrection was rehearsed. When at
      last he reached the point of waking up inside Hermione, Moody
      stopped him with a wand levelled at him. "You're telling me that
      both of you have horcruxes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Hermione, "and yet we have not yet killed anyone,
      proving that horcruxes are not evil, just the ceremony's original
      requirements."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmph," said Moody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let them finish," said the headmaster, "and we'll come back to
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So they finished. Though Harry left out the part about the red
      philosopher's stone being fake. And Hermione left out the part
      where it was now hidden in her sapphire ring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said the headmaster, "I think we have the gist of the
      plot, and I think I understand but please spell out for us, the
      exact nature of your horcrux and why you believe that it is
      justifiable to believe that it is not evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's rather simple," said Harry, "Voldemort uses a ritual is
      steeped in the fear of death and a belief that death itself is so
      much a part of the natural order of things that it must be
      bargained with, his ritual requires him to sacrifice another life
      in exchange for his own. By my accidental ritual, Hermione became
      my horcrux because I willingly sacrificed a bit of my self to bring
      her back to life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And," continued Hermione, "our patronus meditations are focused
      on the fact that death is <em class="calibre7">not</em> a natural part of the world
      it is merely a childish phase that humanity will grow out of in
      time,"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The headmaster's eyes twinkled and he turned to Moody, "now do
      you see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody was silent for several seconds, "Yes, yes, big of you not
      to be crowing, 'I told you so' at the top of your lungs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was saving that for later," said Dumbledor, "since bringing
      them up to speed on our argument is evidently no longer important
      strategically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moody grunted and nodded, then turned to Harry "How sure are you
      that she is still your horcrux?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," said Harry turning to Hermione, "what non-destructive
      experiment could we conduct that would reassure us that—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expecto Patronum," said Hermione and made a quick shewing
      gesture at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a large bright light speeding toward him, Harry
      instinctively put a hand up to shield his eyes. But the patronus
      slipped around and through and passed into his skin wherever it
      touched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any difference?" said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It feels like there was a slight increase in available magic,"
      said Harry, "if that wasn't just adrenalin because you startled
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded and made a 'come at me' gesture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry repeated the whole procedure back to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, "I seem to be back to eighteen internal voices for
      you instead of one. But they're not talking out of turn as much as
      they were before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now we know," said Harry, "and we should probably learn to do
      that one wandless if the next time we <em class="calibre7">really</em> need it is in
      a combat situation such that the one resurrecting left a wand
      behind on the battlefield, with the associated body."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," she said, "you have such a morbid sense of timing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hah," said Moody, "Constant vigilance. Always."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what 'constant' <em class="calibre7">means</em>," sighed Hermione, "Oh
      never mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of," said Harry, "the dark lord's last threat to me
      was that he'd torture everyone in my army and my parents. And
      everyone else he thought might be my friend, then put them in
      Azkaban to relive that torture for as long as they lasted. Is there
      anything we can do about that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are many things we can do," said the headmaster, "an
      important step is for you to spend at least two weeks at your
      parents home, to renew your ties to it as your home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Understood," said Harry, "can Hermione's parents have similar
      protections?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By all means," said the headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fin</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Good night y'all.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
