<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 56: SD 3: Know Thyself, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Know Thyself</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah dropped from her broomstick, her robes and hair soaking
      wet from condensation and low-flying clouds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her heart was racing. That had been the first time she'd ever
      been on a broomstick outside of class. She'd been so focussed on
      getting a good mark from Madam Hooch (and on not dying) that she
      hadn't really noticed that flying was fun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hamster floated in front of her in front of a sheer stone
      face in a large rock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want me to follow you?" she asked. It nodded. The hamster
      beckoned, then floated through the rock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some people would find that strange or impossible, but some
      people hadn't had to run through a seemingly-solid masonry wall at
      King's Cross.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shrugged and walked through the wall. As soon as her hand
      touched the stone, it turned... not quite translucent. She could
      still see the wall, but she could also see a tunnel behind it. It
      was like one of those optical illusions; depending on how you
      looked it at, it was either a woman with an unfashionable hat or a
      bowl of fruit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah shook her head and walked in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sat in the darkest corner of the dark tavern, the Hungry
      Hungry Hippogriff, and pulled his hood down so it covered his face,
      adjusting the several dozen straps, buckles, and scarves dispersed
      about his outfit for maximum effect. He was covered head-to-toe,
      save for a small area around his jaw and neck that his hood didn't
      cover, but he'd made sure to paint them in red whorls and twists
      like tattoos.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Monk sat on the floor nearby, probably meditating about inner
      perfection and diamond minds and the usual trash that high-Wisdom
      classes got up to. A couple of dwarves were talking seriously about
      the goblins that had overrun their mines. The barman looked like he
      had a deep, dark secret that he'd take to his grave unless someone
      could make a moderate Diplomacy check to get it out of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd missed taverns. They'd been such a staple of his life—like
      shoes—that he hadn't really realized how important they were until
      they were gone. Not that he really ever drank, or talked to people,
      or ate anything that weren't his Everlasting Rations. That wasn't
      the important part of a tavern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, the important thing, the really, crucially,
      <em class="calibre7">irreplaceable</em> thing were the people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Specifically, the people dressed in strange, faraway clothing
      sitting in dark corners.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was only sitting for a few minutes when the doors slammed
      open. He didn't look up. That was part of the trick. Instead, he
      waited for the light to flicker over him, and glanced up
      disinterestedly—maybe too disinterestedly?—at the newcomers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were only three of them, and that was surprising. There
      were supposed to be four.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He recognized two of them, but he knew who the third was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hardly had time to blink before they were sitting next to
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greetings, stranger," said one, a gnome.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are other tables," Milo said in his lowest, raspiest
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True, true. But we couldn't help but notice you were watching
      us. And I don't recognize your clothing. Perhaps you could tell us
      where you're from?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could. But why should I?" Milo asked, still not looking
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The newcomer sighed. "Fine, fine. Relkin, your turn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The one Milo didn't recognize (Relkin, presumably) spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where are you from?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whoa. Milo had never been subjected to a Diplomacy check that
      powerful. He almost replied 'Myra! City of Light! City of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic</em>!' reflexively. Instead, he reminded himself that,
      technically, Diplomacy only worked on NPCs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Excuse</em> me!" the Monk from the floor said, standing up
      and walking over to Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is none of your business," Milo growled. It fell flat,
      though, without any Intimidate to back it up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I think I've got something to say," the Monk said angrily.
      "I've been waiting here for <em class="calibre7">four hours</em> for a party of
      adventurers to show up and help me avenge my dead master. This is
      <em class="calibre7">my</em> tavern. Who are <em class="calibre7">you</em> to come in here and poach
      <em class="calibre7">my</em> adventurers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. He hadn't expected this. But then, he'd never been
      on this side of the quest-giving experience before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you really want to do this?" Milo asked, still sitting
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you don't leave," the Monk growled, "I'm going to kick your
      backside from the Clockwork Nirvana to the Ever-Changing Chaos. I'm
      level twelve, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try me," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Haaaaaai-yeee!" the Monk shouted, charging at Milo
      barefisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might want to rethink that last one," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Monk paused. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not proficient with unarmed strikes. Minus four to
      attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What tripe is this? Of course I'm proficient. I'm a Monk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Monks," Milo said in the sing-song voice of one reciting from
      memory, "are proficient with club, crossbow (light or heavy),
      dagger, handaxe, javelin, kama, nunchaku, quarterstaff, sai,
      shuriken, siangham, and sling," he said. "Unarmed strike is nowhere
      on that list."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Monk frowned. "You're right," he said, finally. "Damn. But I
      don't need my fists to beat you into a bloody pulp," the Monk said,
      breaking a table leg off of a chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For a Monk, you don't know much about Monks, do you?" Milo
      said. He hadn't meant for it to go this far, but the Monk left him
      no choice. He had to break out his secret weapon. This battle was
      about to get existential. "After all, is it not written, 'know
      thyself, and thou knowest the best way to beat in another's face?'"
      Milo said. "Or something like that, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course! True wisdom is in knowing yourself—thyself,
      whatever—and my Wisdom is through the roof!
      <em class="calibre7">Haaaaaai-yee</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, but you <em class="calibre7">don't</em> know yourself, do you?" Milo said,
      still sitting. "Because it takes a Knowledge check of ten plus the
      Hit Dice of a creature to recognize it, meaning it is a DC 11 check
      to identify a human." Milo grinned wickedly. "But it is
      <em class="calibre7">impossible</em> to make a check higher than ten without
      training. Tell me, o wise Monk, how many cross-class skill ranks
      have you invested in Knowledge (Local)?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Monk dropped the table leg and stared at his own hand in
      horror. "<em class="calibre7">What am I</em>?" he shrieked, looking at himself as if
      he'd never seen a human before—and, in a manner of speaking, he
      hadn't. As far as he was concerned, humans were unknown and
      unknowable. He broke into a cold sweat, and started to shake. Then
      he fled through the door, screaming at the top of his lungs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked back at the party sitting around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry about that," he said. "Some people never know when
      to—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Milo</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo pulled off his hood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, guys," he said to Gerard, Zook, and... the new one. "I
      thought you were dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could say the same for you!" Zook said. "But you know how it
      is; some Wizard <em class="calibre7">Wished</em> us back to life in exchange for
      getting his cat familiar down from a treant, that sort of thing.
      You wouldn't believe how many times we tried to contact you with a
      <em class="calibre7">Sending</em> or bring you back with a <em class="calibre7">True
      Resurrection</em>—hang on. If you're here, how is..." Zook turned
      to look at the Bard. Then back at Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he narrowed his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">True Seeing</em>," he cast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm really me," Milo said. "It took a <em class="calibre7">deus ex
      machina</em> or two to get me here, but I'm here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So..." Gerard said slowly. "Dost this, perchance, makest thou
      an NPC?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope. At least, I don't think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, thank gods," Gerard said. "I hate doing that voice. I can
      never tell if it's supposed to be 'thou' or 'thee.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo glanced at the Bard, Relkin. She was hard to read behind
      her presumably-massive Charisma bonus and her feathered,
      wide-brimmed red hat, but she seemed to be deep in thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, guys," Milo said. "I need your help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course you do," Zook grinned. "When have we ever met someone
      in a tavern who didn't need our help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're <em class="calibre7">sure</em> you're not an NPC?" Gerard asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty sure. So here's the thing: Boccob sent me back here to
      hunt someone down. But I've only got three days, starting about
      four hours ago, meaning we really have to hustle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's ridiculous," Zook said. "Of course, as a divine being,
      he's clearly beyond our understanding," he added quickly, "but why
      would a <em class="calibre7">god</em> need someone found? They're practically
      omniscient. Boccob the Uncaring knows exactly where your target
      is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was my thinking too," Milo said. "I think he doesn't
      actually want her found. I think he wants to get me and her in the
      same room together, sixty-eight hours from now. I already tried
      locating her with magic, but she seems to be under the effects of a
      <em class="calibre7">Nondetection</em> spell or something similar. She's a witch
      named Bellatrix—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Myra," Relkin interjected. "City of Light! City of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic</em>!" she added half-heartedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Is she not hiding, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't know. This is the first I've heard about her. But we've
      been getting foreshadowing about shady goings-on in Myra
      (CityofLight!Cityof<em class="calibre7">Magic</em>!) for ages now. But, since that
      Wizard who brought these guys back to life was on the other side of
      the continent, it's taken us a while to get back. And there were
      all these sidequests to do, MacGuffins to find, mysteries to solve,
      dungeons to raid... up until last week, when there was nothing. The
      quests dried up, and suddenly we were moving like lightning. Until
      now. You're the first notable NPC we've met in a week. Coincidence?
      I think not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm <em class="calibre7">not</em> an NPC," Milo bristled. "But your reasoning
      seems sound. Besides, there's... someone else I have to see in the
      city."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just one question," Relkin said. "What the hells is a
      witch?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah crept deeper into the cave. She wasn't exactly sneaking
      or anything, but it seemed almost impossible to walk into a
      mysterious hidden cave without creeping. She found herself wishing
      she'd brought a torch; she had her wand, of course, but didn't dare
      use it. <em class="calibre7">Stupid underage magic rules</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, if only she could <em class="calibre7">see</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as she thought it, the hamster on her shoulder
      disappeared, and the walls and floor of the cave, just barely
      visible before, were highlighted in a web of silvery lines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Cool</em>," she whispered, walking more confidently
      now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cave opened up into a little square room hewn out of the
      rock and earth, supported in places by neatly-sawn timber beams and
      posts. There was a wooden table in the centre of the room, an
      overstuffed armchair in the corner, and the walls were all lined
      with shelves and drawers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello." It was Milo's voice. Hannah whipped around, but
      couldn't see him. Of course, she couldn't see much of anything in
      the darkness beyond the silvery outlines. "If you're hearing this,
      it means your Christmas present detected you were thinking I was
      dead. If this is a ploy and I'm planning a—" the voice cut out
      briefly, then picked up again with a slightly different cadence. It
      was a little like listening to a poorly dubbed Japanese cartoon.
      "—daring comeback, I'll leave a note on that table explaining
      everything. However, failing that, I've made certain contingency
      plans. Presumably, my death means the world—" the voice cut out
      again. Hannah frantically ran her hands over the table, trying to
      find Milo's note. "—the world has fallen to You-Know-Who. Or a
      housecat got in a lucky hit. This shelter contains everything you
      need to run an—" there was another pause, longer this time.
      "—Dammit, I need to speak more concisely. Twenty-five words is a
      ridiculously short message to leave, and I've only got one more
      <em class="calibre7">Magic Mouth</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no note. Still, that didn't mean anything, right? It
      didn't mean he was dead. It just meant, as he'd said, that she
      thought he was dead. Which was absolutely jumping to conclusions.
      Right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was probably enjoying his summer in... well, in wherever it
      was he went during the summer. She wondered where that was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—Come on, 'twenty-five' is a compound modifier, not two words!
      Anyway. This shelter contains everything that Cog could make, or
      that I could mail—" Another pause. "Or that I could mail-order that
      might be necessary for whatever the current emergency situation is.
      There are spare wands, non-perishables, money, grappling—" Another
      pause. "—Argh. You get the idea. Look around. There's also an
      armchair in the corner and a set of wizard chess so you can talk
      about—the weather and get your spells back. There's also some
      copies, <em class="calibre7">sans</em> illustrations, of some school textbooks that
      I thought might be useful. The hamster—knows where to find the
      other twelve identical shelters I built. I know I said your
      Christmas present was going to be fun rather than—rather than
      useful, but I couldn't resist. You probably also noticed that the
      hamster can project images of rooms when you're in the dark, but—it
      only works in places that someone who's been within 60 feet of the
      pin has seen, and only you can see the image." There was a pause. A
      real one, as if Milo was hesitating before continuing, not one of
      the weird ones. "If—you're not running for your life, and he didn't
      go down fighting or suffer existential failure, please take care of
      my rat, will you? Happy—Christmas, Hannah Abbot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then there was silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what's the plan?" Zook asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo slid a piece of paper across the table. "We'll need
      everything on that list, but I don't have any money." He'd had to
      tear the sheet out of Thamior's spellbook just to make the shopping
      list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zook scanned the sheet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do we need five tower shields?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess it's only four since Wellby's not here," Milo said.
      "Where is he, by the way?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wasn't with us when we were resurrected," Gerard said. "We
      assumed at first that he chose to stay in the afterlife, but we've
      since heard that he might be in Myra, City of Light! City of
      <em class="calibre7">Magic</em>! We don't know why, though. He's not responding to
      our messages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo and Relkin exchanged a look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix has access to a... permanent-duration at-will
      domination spell with an implausibly-high DC," Milo said. "She got
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know that?" Zook asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She didn't kill him when she killed you two," Relkin said. "He
      was also the last one alive. She's from another plane, so she'd
      need a local guide. Rogues have infamously poor Will saves. He's
      also in the same city she is, and he's not returning your messages.
      He would if he was able."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So. All we need now is four fast horses to get to the city,"
      Milo said. He could take another <em class="calibre7">Phantom Steed</em>, but he
      wanted to conserve his magic as much as possible. He wasn't really
      certain what to expect, and wanted to be prepared for anything. And
      besides, he couldn't fit all four of them on the back of a single
      horse, magical or not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Horses won't get you there in time," Relkin said. "Fortunately,
      I have better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah found a pile of curious foot-long iron rods in one of the
      shelves labelled, in that same weird silvery outline, a
      'sunrod—glows when struck.' She wondered what struck meant in this
      case. Was it in the sense of how someone might strike a match? Or
      did she have to kick it or something? Or maybe the sunrods had to
      engage in collective bargaining and refuse services as a bargaining
      ploy? She knew Milo's definition of certain words differed,
      somewhat, from the norm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She decided to go with the first option, and struck one, like a
      giant match, against the wooden table. As soon as she did, the
      tip—which turned out to be made of gold—began to glow brightly,
      illuminating the room. Wherever the light touched, the silvery
      lines disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rooted around in the drawers until she produced some blank
      paper and a quill, and placed them on the table. Then she looked at
      the hamster pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," she said. "I think you'd best draw where the rest of
      these little hideaways are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a chaotic, gaudy mess in the shape of a sailing ship—sans
      sails. The hull and deck were carved and painted in a variety of
      seemingly-random swirly patterns and shapes. On the side, painted
      in bright silver, was its name: S.S. ROLL FOR INITIATIVE.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A complicated mechanism resembling a waterwheel was mounted on
      the rear, spinning like a Fighter with Combat Reflexes, Improved
      Trip, and a spiked chain surrounded by kobolds who had never read
      page 137 of the PHB.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the whole thing moved like <em class="calibre7">Greased</em> lightning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is this monstrosity?" Milo shouted over the wind as they
      shot down the river.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a boat," Relkin said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What... what makes it go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Zombies," Relkin said with aplomb, steering the ship down the
      winding river.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo choked slightly. "Zombies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And a gaggle of skeletons. There's a couple of zombie
      crocodiles in the hold turning a crank," Relkin said. "Good
      strength-to-HD ratio, and the river is just lousy with them. Some
      of the more complicated machinery is actually haunted, with a
      couple of skeleton squirrels <em class="calibre7">Hauntshifted</em> in as
      poltergeists. The ballistae mounted on the sides self-load the same
      way, but someone has to actually aim and fire them. I'm working on
      that bit, still."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. Theoretically, an undead poltergeist could make
      simple machinery move, like making a clock run backwards. But he'd
      never heard of anyone... weaponising it. The rule was only there to
      add a certain flavour to haunted houses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you justify spending so much of your wealth-by-level
      on a method of transportation?" Milo asked. "Everyone knows that
      not even a high overland speed lets you break the
      one-encounter-per-trip rule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theoretically, there were supposed to be random encounters with
      hostile monsters every so often while travelling, but nobody, not
      even the monsters themselves, had time for that. Random encounters
      were a waste of time for all involved parties. However, since they
      couldn't have travel through dangerous wildernesses just be safe, a
      compromise of sorts was reached: any trip through the wild, of any
      length, would have exactly one random encounter. It was a
      scientifically-proven fact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Relkin said. "But I didn't actually spend anything on
      this. I made it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, please," Milo said. "You don't expect me to believe you put
      that many ranks into Craft (Shipbuilding), Knowledge (Architecture
      and Engineering), and, for that matter, Profession (Sailor)? Is
      this like that time you decided I should have a higher Charisma
      than Constitution?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what you're talking about," Relkin said woodenly.
      "I had nothing to do with that decision. And besides," she added in
      a more normal tone, "I didn't waste any ranks in any of those
      skills."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then how...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bardic Knack and Jack-of-all-Trades, combined with some lucky
      ability rolls. I have a high skill bonus in every skill. You see
      the art on the deck?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's... hard to miss."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, artistic crafts like Craft (Woodcarving) and (Abstract
      Art) let you make high-value works of art from low-cost raw
      materials, so when I have some free time, I throw on another coat
      of paint. At last count, there's fifteen thousand gp in masterwork
      paintings layered on top of each other on this boat for when I
      decide to sell it when I learn Teleport. That number is only going
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Impressive. I once brewed a magical potion in a completely
      different magic system from ours without a feat," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You must be <em class="calibre7">very</em> proud. I once buffed a donkey to the
      point where it killed a hill giant without taking any damage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only a hill giant? Hmph. I foiled the plans of an immortal,
      evil mastermind with a first-level spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can add my Charisma to attack," the Bard said. "Three times.
      And once to damage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I made a headband that gave me seven feats using only a
      second-level spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mirror Move? Way ahead of you." Relkin fished an amulet out
      from her red coat and dangled it in front of Milo. "In a few levels
      I'll get access to the whole Sorcerer/Wizard spell list."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oooh, so you'll be <em class="calibre7">almost</em> as good at magic as a
      Sorcerer? I tremble at the thought. In seven levels I'll get access
      to the whole Cleric spell list and the Wizard list—without
      sacrificing any caster levels."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can cast spells without preparing them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So can I," Milo grinned. "And I'm a <em class="calibre7">Wizard</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I get better saves and more hit points per level than
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bah! If it comes down to your hit points, you've already
      lost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can craft any item at one-third price!'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can craft magic items at <em class="calibre7">one-sixtieth</em> of their
      value!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lot of good you did with it. You haven't got a single magic
      item on you. In fact, aside from that spellbook and those black
      robes, you don't have <em class="calibre7">anything</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a mother, and that's more than you can say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin cocked her head sideways slightly and looked at Milo.
      "So?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you have to ask—" Milo narrowed his eyes, staring at the
      reflection of the setting sun in the water ahead. "That's not a
      reflection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You see it, too?" Relkin asked. She reached behind him and
      pulled on a rope, ringing an alarm bell deep within the ship. She
      slammed forward a lever marked 'REVERSE' and drew a weird,
      crystalline sword from her hip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo dived for cover behind the gunwale as a cloud of
      superheated steam buffeted the ship. His Reflex save was garbage;
      had he been caught in that blast he would have died for certain.
      Even if he'd <em class="calibre7">made</em> his save there would have been nothing
      left but a pair of smoking boots. Relkin stood behind the wheel
      looking unharmed; clearly, she'd managed to munchkin her way into
      getting Evasion somehow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a roar that Milo's ears didn't so much hear as suffer
      through as the monster surfaced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Its wide, streamlined shell was covered in jagged, silvery
      protrusions that caused the light to dance in a beautiful,
      mesmerizing way that looked a little like the reflection of light
      on the water. A long, snakelike neck reached out of the water,
      ending in a scaled, crested head and a mouth lined with several
      <em class="calibre7">dozen</em> rows of razor-sharp teeth; still steaming from the
      breath attack earlier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dragon Turtle slammed into the <em class="calibre7">Roll for Initiative</em>,
      shattering the mermaid figurehead and sending splinters flying
      across the deck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Its sea-green eyes scanned the deck and looked straight at Milo.
      Then it opened its mouth again, ready to send forth another blast
      of superhot steam.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, crap."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
