<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 61: SD 8: Boss Room, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Boss Room</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Was that the signal?" Reginald whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Regina whispered back, peering through her spyglass. "It
      was just something from the Mage's Guild." The battle, or whatever
      was happening, at the Mage's Guild had largely died down, but every
      now and then a lightning bolt or wave of sick-looking fog flew out
      of an open window. Most of the upper storeys were on fire, and
      several load-bearing-looking walls lay in ruins. Knowing magic,
      though, the carnage would likely only take a few minutes to clear
      up, or, more likely, several months of work by poorly paid servants
      while the resident Wizards took the opportunity to do 'critical
      spell research' on a sunny island someplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are we whispering?" Reginald asked. "We're halfway across
      the city from the action."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How should I know?" Regina asked. "You started it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was that it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that was just the sun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lkoturo the Grand Vizier hadn't been wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The aged darkwood doors didn't <em class="calibre7">look</em> particularly
      formidable. Tall, dark, and expensive, just like their previous
      owner. Sure, darkwood was pretty tough stuff, but it couldn't hold
      a candle even to steel, and the doors were clearly only using it
      because it looked pretty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nevertheless, they were nigh-indestructible. The grain was so
      laced with defensive spells and traps that Milo was almost
      surprised it didn't glow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have enough <em class="calibre7">Dispel Magic</em>s to put a dent in
      this door," Relkin said, almost in awe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All the Wizards in the world wouldn't have enough," Milo said.
      It was an exaggeration, but not by as much as one might hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the big deal? I've never seen a door that stood up to
      this little adamantine master key," Gerard said, patting his
      sheathed greatsword.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See those little light flecks in the wood?" Milo asked.
      "There's one there near the bottom, and another by the
      knocker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Gerard shrugged. "What are those, traps? A simple matter
      to avoid them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "Those are the only areas <em class="calibre7">not</em> stained
      by the amber used to make a <em class="calibre7">Sepia Snake Sigil</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, actually," Relkin corrected, "it's an unrelated spell
      heavily based off of <em class="calibre7">Sepia Snake Sigil</em> that triggers off
      of the door opening, and probably damage, but not by reading-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes," Milo said irritably. "Lies-to-Fighters,
      remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I can make a Reflex save," Gerard said defensively. "I
      have a Cloak of Protection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But can you make five thousand, six-hundred and seventy-seven?"
      Milo asked. "Besides, that's not even including the <em class="calibre7">Symbol of
      Insanity</em> scrawled in the doorjamb, there. Of course, it's only
      potent when clearly visible, and as such poses no threat—as long as
      the door remains closed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Gerard said, backing away carefully from the door. "I
      begin to see your point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So..." Zook said. "If we can't get in through the door, what do
      we do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gerard?" Milo said. "Break that window."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gerard shrugged and effortless kicked the window clean off of
      its pane, letting the rays of early-morning light shine in through
      the gap. How long did they have until Boccob's three days were up?
      Minutes? Seconds?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what you have planned," Zook said, "but I am
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> climbing out the window on the top floor of a
      fifteen-storey palace."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll see," Milo said. "But before we do this, we need to be
      absolutely clear on something. Everybody listening?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Relkin, Zook, and Gerard shrugged, nodded, and grunted,
      respectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In all likelihood, Bellatrix Lestrange is through this door,"
      Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gerard cracked his knuckles meaningfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two of you have seen her fight once before, and she killed both
      of you without breaking a sweat. You had what, two, three rounds
      before you went down? Right. I've been fighting people like her
      back in the other world for over a year now, and it's not like
      combat here. It's messy and chaotic and confused and if they so
      much as <em class="calibre7">touch</em> you with their magic, you're dead. No ifs,
      ands, buts, or saving throws."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We understand," Relkin said impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "You don't. If we go in there, you will have
      <em class="calibre7">no idea</em> what you're dealing with. She doesn't have hit
      points. She doesn't have an armour class. She doesn't even really
      have a place in the initiative order. You're all used to encounters
      that are carefully tailored to your respective levels and abilities
      to be a balanced, fair challenge that might prove difficult but is
      nonetheless designed for you to win in under a minute." Milo paused
      to let that sink in. "Bellatrix won't be like that. She comes from
      a different world with different rules and we won't be able to
      defeat her unless we recognize that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll be careful," Gerard said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'll be more than that," Milo said seriously. "You'll stay
      out of it. I'll handle Bellatrix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Relkin said. "That's crazy! <em class="calibre7">You'll</em> fight the
      BBEG? <em class="calibre7">Alone</em>? Look at you! No magic items. No familiar. No
      decent spells. Basically no hit points. You don't stand a
      <em class="calibre7">chance</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hit points won't matter in this fight," Milo said. "And I won't
      be able to both fight her and worry about you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, what do you want us to do?" Zook said. "Just sit around
      here and polish our Holy Symbols? You can't seriously expect us to
      agree to this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Milo said. "She'll probably have a trick up her sleeve. An
      ace in the hole. While I'm fighting her, I need you three to cover
      my back against surprises. I don't know about you guys, but I don't
      believe for a second that that Lorcko guy, or whatever his name
      was, told us everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll see," Relkin said. "But if it's going to be as tumultuous
      as you're describing, the situation may change in ways you can't
      predict. I can't promise I might not step in if it comes to
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zook nodded. "Same here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," Gerard said. "We can't let you get all the XP."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded. That was probably the best he was going to be able
      to get out of them. "<em class="calibre7">Dancing Lights</em>." Four pinpoints of
      red light appeared floating over his head. "All right, gentlemen.
      And lady. Shields up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a wave of his hand, the lights flew out of the window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There would be no backing out now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was that it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Regina said, lowering the spyglass. "Yeah, I think that
      was it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Reginald said. "Here goes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reached down and, without further drama, released the catch.
      The catapult kicked into the air as it released the enormous stored
      energy in its wound sinew springs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From her vantage point, Regina couldn't see the eleven other
      teams positioned throughout the city. But she didn't need to—she
      could see their effects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is a common misconception that catapults throw ponderous
      projectiles in high, slow arcs with little finesse or accuracy.
      Your standard siege catapult is capable of launching a seventy-five
      kilogram projectile well over three hundred meters. Catapults are
      more than capable of stripping battlements from city walls, and
      could seriously damage or destroy even hardened military
      fortifications with sustained fire. Over the centuries,
      advancements in catapult technology necessitated thicker, stronger
      walls designed with, and to defend against, the (often literally)
      bleeding edge of military engineering and technology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, none of that actually mattered here. Force, mass, and
      acceleration were all merely flavour text, but 6d6 damage was 6d6
      damage no matter now you looked at it, especially when a six inch
      masonry wall only has 45 hit points per 10 square feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mortar dust rained over their heads as the exterior wall
      suddenly buckled inwards. A handful of bricks were knocked loose,
      but the wall held.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later, the wall exploded inwards as another half-dozen
      head-sized stones collided with the civilian architecture almost
      simultaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A chunk of baroque masonry slammed into Milo's tower shield,
      which was, through a strange quirk in the rules, the next best
      thing to indestructible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite himself, Milo chuckled quietly in the dust. <em class="calibre7">More
      like baroque-en masonry...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dust cleared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lkoturo's door was still standing, apparently unscathed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wall around it, however, had gone to metamorphic heaven.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the remains of what had once been a grandiose office, a woman
      sat behind a shattered desk, holding a steaming bone china teacup.
      Her hair was dark and wild beneath the white dust, and she wore a
      black dress with enough folds, lace, and patterns that Milo didn't
      doubt there were multiple places one could hide a knife without it
      showing. Over the dress, she had a leather bag slung over her
      shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," she said, setting down the cracked cup on the crooked
      table."<em class="calibre7">Heroes</em>." She stood up, idly brushing dust from her
      clothes. "I hadn't planned on killing any of you lot today, but
      eh," she shrugged, causing powdered stone to rain from her. "If
      life gives you lemons..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo dropped his tower shield. He wasn't going to risk a fifty
      percent spell failure chance on the untested assumption that his
      exploit would work against her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lestrange," he said, shaking his hands free of his sleeves.
      "You—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will never get away with it?" Bellatrix asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are going down? For justice? The good of mankind? For," she
      gestured vaguely, "Chester? Lucy?" She frowned. "Have I killed any
      Lucys lately?" she said, apparently to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No, you—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fiend?" she suggested. "Ooh, how about, 'you may think you've
      won, but the real punishment will be your own conscience?' It's
      been <em class="calibre7">years</em> since I've heard that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't belong in this world," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pfft. I was hoping for something <em class="calibre7">new</em>. What did I do,
      kill your cat or mommy or something? Just once I'd like to kill a
      hero <em class="calibre7">not</em> out for vengeance. Or 'justice,' for that
      matter." she made little quotation marks in the air with her
      fingers. "How about... boredom. Hardly anybody tries to kill me out
      of boredom. Ooh, or for meringues. Nobody's tried that. And believe
      me, my meringues are to die for." She frowned. "No, that's my
      sister's meringues. Mine tended to scream, which always put people
      off for some reason." Bellatrix stared at Milo, as if noticing him
      for the first time. "So, what's your deal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was killed by a book and my god returned me to life to find
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow, that <em class="calibre7">is</em> new. Avada kedavra." She said it like one
      might say 'Well, whatever,' or, 'That's public transit for you.'
      She didn't quick-draw like a gunslinger, or scream like a
      barbarian, or even shrug. She just said it, as if the words were
      ordinary conversation. Maybe to her, they were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Milo had been ready for it—literally. His Readied spell
      sprung into action almost before he was really aware that the
      combat had started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Summon Skeletal Troll.</em>" A great skeleton of a lanky
      beast with far too much arm and too little leg appeared directly in
      the path of the Unforgivable Curse, which burst harmlessly against
      its chest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix cocked her head sideways. It was a curiously bird-like
      gesture. Her wand, however, remained perfectly still. "I see you
      know a thing or two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "You're not the first Death Eater I've fought."
      This was good. Undead were immune to, near as Milo could tell, all
      three of the Unforgivable Curses. Death Eaters never seemed to cast
      anything else, so as long as he could keep the Troll between him
      and Bellatrix, he'd have this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix grinned. It was a terrifying expression in that it was
      absolutely genuine. She was, if his ranks in Sense Motive were to
      be believed, completely <em class="calibre7">thrilled</em> to be fighting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fascinating!" she said. "I'll have to have somebody here magic
      the answer to <em class="calibre7">that</em> little riddle out of your corpse," she
      said. "But first—<em class="calibre7">Diffindo</em>!" Bellatrix swiped her wand in a
      horizontal arc in front of her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At first, nothing seemed to happen. A moment later, the skeleton
      seemed to waver slightly, as if unsteady. Then it collapsed, the
      top half of its skull sliding from its head, severed by a single,
      unimaginably sharp cut. The skeleton vanished before it hit the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo said. "Crap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After that whole lecture to his party, he couldn't believe he'd
      simply assumed that Bellatrix Lestrange—<em class="calibre7">Bellatrix
      Lestrange—</em>would simply follow the patterns set by other Death
      Eaters. The witches and wizards of magical Britain had been
      <em class="calibre7">terrified</em> of this woman, and with good reason—not only was
      she, from what he'd heard, <em class="calibre7">completely psychotic</em>, but she
      evidently possessed a far more frightening trait: <em class="calibre7">she could
      change her tactics</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Glitterdust</em>!" A familiar burst of golden light flew
      out of Milo's outstretched hand at the witch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Scourgify</em>," Bellatrix cast casually, wiping the dust
      away. <em class="calibre7">Oh, Hell</em>... Milo knew what was coming next, and
      dived behind a convenient pile of rubble. "<em class="calibre7">Oppugno</em>!" she
      cast in the same breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I guess she and Draco</em> are <em class="calibre7">blood, after
      all</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's golden dust formed into a wispy line and flew back at
      him, avoiding the rubble with ease. For once, he was glad that he
      no longer had his spell-enhancing equipment, as its lack was the
      only reason he as able to evade the spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was dimly aware of the noise of fighting coming from the
      hallway outside, and heard Zook's voice shout out "Don't kill them!
      They don't know what they're doing!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo resolved to stop messing around and aim for her obvious
      weak spot. He popped out over the rubble and targeted her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Shatter</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's wand exploded in her hand, sending splinters flying
      across the room. The witch blinked in surprise at her bleeding
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My mother gave me that wand," she said in a hushed voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo heaved a sigh of relief. He'd half-expected her to have
      some devious countermeasure. Now, it would only be a simple matter
      of subduing her, maybe with <em class="calibre7">Evard's Black Tentacles</em>, or
      perhaps a summoned monster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Abruptly, she smiled. "Oh, no, I forgot. That was <em class="calibre7">this</em>
      wand," she said, producing a seemingly-identical wand from behind
      her back. With a shrug, she tossed it away behind her back. "Or
      maybe this one," she said, drawing yet another from up her sleeve.
      "With the Geminio Charm, it's easy to lose track.
      <em class="calibre7">Incarcerous.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dozens of ropes sprung out of the oak wall behind Milo, grabbing
      him by the arms, legs, and neck and pinning him to the wall. He
      struggled, but it was futile. What kind of self-respecting Wizard
      would put ranks in Escape Artist, anyway?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix clapped her hands together. "Bravo!" she said,
      apparently genuinely thrilled. "That was, what, twenty, thirty
      seconds? That's more entertainment than I get out of most. You
      should be proud! I'd cut you down for an encore performance, but,
      well, I think I'll just kill you instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind Bellatrix, Milo saw Relkin stalking silently across the
      room, sword in hand. She gave him a wink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo's mind raced. He had to keep Bellatrix talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't kill me, if I were you," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course!" Bellatrix said. "I wouldn't kill me if I were me,
      either. It goes without saying, really. <em class="calibre7">Flagrate</em>." Milo
      smelled faint wood smoke as the tip of her wand lit up into a
      bright white ember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I mean, <em class="calibre7">really,</em>" Milo stammered. Bellatrix
      playfully traced her wand against the wood panelling Milo was
      pinned against, leaving a scored black mark. "Aren't you the least
      bit curious about how I previously encountered Death Eaters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly? Not really," Bellatrix said, hovering her smoking
      wand tip just in front of Milo's left eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Relkin approached within the reach of her weapon,
      Bellatrix snapped her fingers. A shadowy figure dropped silently
      from the ceiling, swords poised to strike.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Milo could cry out, the stranger stranger's weapons
      flashed. Relkin whirled about and deftly parried the first with her
      crystal sword, but was a hair too slow to catch the second. She
      screamed and clutched at her shoulder, blood leaking between her
      fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where was I?" Bellatrix asked. "Oh, of course." Slowly,
      deliberately, she moved her smoking wand towards his eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo wished he could say that he stared her down coolly, but, in
      truth, he began to crack. He didn't want to die again, or for his
      sister to die. He was more terrified of this strange, quicksilver
      witch than he had been of almost anyone before—perhaps more so,
      even, than of Tom Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wand was so close that he could feel his face starting to
      burn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I don't want to die</em>, <em class="calibre7">I don't want to die,</em> I
      don't want to die, I DON'T WANT TO DIE.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that?" Bellatrix asked sweetly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I don't want to die</em>!" Milo screamed. He struggled
      against the ropes and the wooden wall in vain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre7">wooden</em> wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo slammed his palm against the oak behind him. Abruptly he
      began to slide as the wall collapsed into dozens upon dozens of
      narrow wooden quarterstaves, just like he had with the ship's mast.
      It wasn't even magic; anyone could do it. He collided with
      Bellatrix's shins, and they both tumbled to the ground, sliding
      across the floor in a great wave of walking sticks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And people say Craft is underpowered!" Milo said, climbing to
      his feet. He'd stopped sliding just next to the huge open dropoff
      where the external wall had once been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked at the small figure fighting Relkin. At the hooded
      cloak, the twin swords...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wellby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em>!" A green bolt of light grazed Milo's
      face, colliding with the wall behind him. Milo whirled around,
      Readying another <em class="calibre7">Summon Undead III</em>. He was fighting too
      defensively, he knew, but what else was he going to do? If he tried
      to take her out and missed, he'd be wide open to a Killing
      Curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix was back on her feet, yet another wand in her hand.
      Her previous one was lying among the pile of wooden weaponry, still
      smoking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you're <em class="calibre7">fun</em>," she laughed. "Nobody from this mad,
      fake world has put up even <em class="calibre7">half</em> the fight you have!
      Look—<em class="calibre7">Expecto Patronum</em>!" A wispy, translucent white snake
      slithered out of her wand, and wrapped itself around her legs. "I'm
      having a <em class="calibre7">great</em> time!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know the feeling," Milo muttered. He'd fought whole
      <em class="calibre7">rooms</em> full of Death Eaters before with less difficulty
      than this. Of course, he'd had Mordenkainen then, and his belt full
      of tricks, but his primary weapon had always been his spells.
      Bellatrix seemed to have an answer to all of them—and she could
      cast much, <em class="calibre7">much</em> faster than he could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Summon Zombie Kobolds</em>," Milo cast, aiming for quantity
      over quality. Four small, rotting reptilian creatures appeared in a
      line between him and Bellatrix. The Killing Curse burst harmlessly
      against the first one's decaying torso, and the four disgusting
      little creatures rushed the witch. With her distracted, Milo
      glanced at Relkin, who was losing ground—and hit points—to Wellby's
      superior, non-caster combat abilities. She hadn't seemed to have
      clued in to his identity, yet—maybe because, <em class="calibre7">technically</em>,
      she hadn't actually met him before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Benign Transposition</em>," he muttered. Suddenly, he was
      facing his old party mate, and Relkin was standing by the open
      wall. "Look, Wellby—" Milo was interrupted by Wellby slashing him
      across the chest with one of his blades. "Gods <em class="calibre7">dammit</em>,"
      Milo cursed. Not for the last time, he wished he'd taken the
      penalty to Charisma rather than Constitution. "Fine, be that way.
      <em class="calibre7">Protection from Good</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wellby blinked his eyes repeatedly, as if he'd just woken up
      from a long dream.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo?" he asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Later," Milo said. "We'll deal with Lestrange first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wellby's eyes hardened. "Yes," he said. "Yes, we will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them and the two kobolds still standing surrounded
      Bellatrix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," she laughed. "Win some, lose some."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
