<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 68: SD 15: The Tour Guide, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s31" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: The Tour Guide</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">It was a small, dark, room with walls of bare stone. From
      somewhere behind him, Milo could hear an irregular <em class="calibre7">drip...
      drip-drip... ... ... drip... drip-drip-drip</em> that was wreaking
      havoc on his concentration. A single light, simultaneously too
      bright to be comfortable and too dim to illuminate the room, hung
      above him, flickering occasionally. Milo himself sat in an
      uncomfortable, nondescript chair behind a simple metal table across
      from Bones, Shacklebolt, Peasegood, and a couple of unknown
      mooks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the sort of room that governments throughout time and
      across dimensions have, somewhere, but rarely show to school tour
      groups. This one was labelled 'Interview Room H.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you know about the escaped fugitive, Sirius Black?"
      Amelia Bones asked him. The two witches that had followed
      Shacklebolt into the compartment earlier stood by the door with
      unreadable expressions on their faces. Shacklebolt himself,
      however, was conspicuously absent. <em class="calibre7">Drip... drip...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "That his cousin, Ridiculous Black, is way more
      fun at parties." <em class="calibre7">Drip... dripdrip-drip-DRIP... drip.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's lying," said Arnold Peasegood, the Obliviator. <em class="calibre7">Drip...
      ... drip...</em> Milo hadn't seen either of these two since he'd
      sold them his flawed Amulets of Protection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I <em class="calibre7">know</em> he's lying," Bones snapped.
      "<em class="calibre7">Anyone</em> can tell he's lying." She turned back to Milo.
      "This will be much easier if you just tell us what you know. It's
      for your own safety."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know I've never been told anything was 'for my own safety' by
      an authority figure who was completely on the up-and-up," Milo
      said. <em class="calibre7">Drip-drip... DRIP</em>. "And I know that the Amulets you
      two are wearing—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brinks, Wu," Bones snapped. "Leave." If the two witches were
      surprised by the order, they didn't show it. They filed out without
      a word. She aimed her wand at the closed door.
      "<em class="calibre7">Colloportus</em>," she muttered, then put the wand away
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Things are really falling apart around here, aren't they?" Milo
      asked. <em class="calibre7">Drip... DRIP-drip</em>. "People escaping from Azkaban
      left, right, and centre, Hogwarts governors being murdered in their
      homes, supposedly memory-wiped Muggles being a little <em class="calibre7">too</em>
      persistent..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know about that?" Peasegood snapped. He glanced at
      Bones, who cocked an eyebrow. "The situation is completely under
      control," he said, loosening his tie slightly. "A handful of
      Obliviated Muggles seemed to have relapsed last year. It's happened
      before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll discuss this later," Bones said firmly, before looking
      back at Milo. "What's this about our amulets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're flawed," Milo explained. "You-Know-Who will be able to
      Imperius you even if you're wearing them. I'm sorry. I'll give you
      a... partial refund. Say, fifteen percent?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ridiculous," Peasegood said. "Every amulet has been thoroughly
      tested against all manner of threats, up to and including the
      Imperius Curse. They've performed flawlessly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones narrowed her eyes. <em class="calibre7">Drip-drop-drip-drip... ... ...
      DRIP.</em> "The real question," she said slowly, "is what your
      vested interest is in having us remove them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Milo hadn't seen this coming at all. "No, I was just
      trying to warn—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it so that Sirius Black and his followers will be able to
      seize control of the Ministry?" Bones pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's ridiculous. You people don't even get feats, much less
      Leadership. There's no way he could have followers—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you facilitate Sirius's escape from Azkaban?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I barely even knew Azkaban existed until—" Milo cut himself off
      before he could say 'until Sirius told me.' "Until the story of
      Sirius's escape broke."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you know about the disappearance of Gilderoy
      Lockhart?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Drip... drip...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clocktart? What's he got to do with this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did Sirius Black kill Lockhart?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Drip... drip...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">DRIP</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody froze for a second, and Milo realized he'd made a
      mistake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what makes you so sure?" Bones asked slowly. "What do you
      know, Milo?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I misspoke," Milo rushed. "I thought you said 'Do you know if
      Sirius Black killed Lockhart,' and I said, 'No,' as in, 'No, I
      don't know—'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop stalling!" Bones slammed her fist down on the table,
      leaving a small dent in the cheap metal. "We know you can do things
      no-one else can. Nobody's <em class="calibre7">ever</em> broken out of Azkaban—just
      like how nobody's <em class="calibre7">ever</em> blocked an Unforgivable Curse
      before, much less Charmed a piece of cheap <em class="calibre7">jewelry</em> to do
      it for them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The horrible steel chair Milo sat in was committing war crimes
      on his lower back. "I didn't fare too well against the Dementor you
      sent to the Hogwarts Express—real nice, by the way, turning one of
      those things loose on a train full of <em class="calibre7">children—</em>so I don't
      see how I could have walked into Azkaban and broken Black out." He
      raised his hands up above the table's surface to stretch in an
      attempt to work out the kinks in his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Incarcerous</em>!" Bones shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo hadn't even seen Bones draw her wand, but thick ropes shot
      out of it, pinning Milo against the wall. He was uncomfortably
      reminded of the time, only a few days ago, when Bellatrix had him
      in a similar position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boccob Uncaring!" Milo cursed, fighting against the ropes. "I
      was just trying to stretch!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've tried to be polite so far," Bones said. "But you
      <em class="calibre7">must</em> realize we can get the truth out of you, one way or
      another, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo struggled slightly, but it was to no avail. "I'm shrugging
      right now," he said. "I know you can't tell, on account of all the
      freaking ropes, but that was a shrug. If you could make me, you
      would have already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peasegood," Bones said, keeping her wand pointed straight at
      Milo, "get the Veritaserum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right," Milo said. "<em class="calibre7">That</em>." The Ministry had used
      it on him back in First Year, when they'd tried to prove he wasn't
      human or something. As if his bonus feat wasn't proof enough of his
      humanity. "Last time you used that on me, everything I said was
      dismissed from evidence as delusional," he reminded them. "What
      makes you think this time will be any different? I can't give
      testimony. I'm insane. I think I'm from another world,
      remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From somewhere under the table, Peasegood produced a tiny vial
      of a clear, colourless liquid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Bones said. She made a sharp, horizontal slash with her
      wand. "<em class="calibre7">Diffindo</em>." Milo's Amulet of Protection from Good
      fell from his neck as the silver links of its chain were
      severed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was <em class="calibre7">brand new</em>!" Milo complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You understand we can use magic to force you to drink this if
      you resist, correct?" Bones said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would nod if I could move my neck," Milo said. "I'll
      drink."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good. Don't make this more difficult than it needs to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Veritaserum was completely tasteless, which would be a perfect
      opportunity for a pun if (<em class="calibre7">drip-DRIP… drip</em>) Milo wasn't so
      distracted by the thrice-cursed dripping noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's start off with some test questions, shall we?" Peasegood
      said. "What is your name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Milo Amastacia-Liadon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How old are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh…" Milo said. "I'm not entirely certain. I died, and that
      complicates the issue. Next question?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peasegood blinked. "You're dead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The great thing about Common (English, as they called it here)
      is that it's probably the worst language ever devised. It allows
      anyone with a slippery enough mind and apprentice-knowledge of
      grammar to get past all <em class="calibre7">kinds</em> of magical truth-telling
      effects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In this case: take the phrase 'you're dead.' Peasegood likely
      intended the contraction 'you're' to mean 'you are<em class="calibre7">.</em>' But,
      <em class="calibre7">technically</em>, Milo had no way of knowing <em class="calibre7">for sure</em>
      that Peasegood didn't mean 'you <em class="calibre7">were</em>.' At minimum, he had
      plausible deniability. The truthful answer to the first
      interpretation was 'no,' but for the second, <em class="calibre7">equally
      correct</em> interpretation…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dead as THAC0, yeah." Just because Milo had to tell the truth
      didn't mean he wasn't allowed to mess with his captors. Besides,
      right this moment, Mordy was probably out there somewhere
      organizing a rescue for him. The Familiar could find him from
      anywhere within a mile, and it wouldn't take a genius to figure out
      that he was being held by the Ministry somewhere. On the other
      hand, Milo couldn't feel anything from his bond with the rat, but
      that just meant that he was simply still on his way. Hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peasegood, check his pulse," Bones ordered. "I can't even
      remember how many times I told Fudge we ought to have this place
      consecrated against the undead. But he always claims it would
      offend our 'metabolically-impaired cousins.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peasegood placed two fingers on Milo's neck for twenty seconds.
      "He's lying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Impossible</em>," Bones said. "Nobody his age can lie under
      the effects of Veritaserum. It's unheard of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like being able to casually block Unforgivable Curses?" Milo
      added helpfully. "So far I'm three for three against them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones glanced at Peasegood uncertainly. Milo got the feeling
      that she wasn't used to uncertainty. He was also starting to get
      the feeling that not everything with Bones was quite hot it
      seemed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You claim that you died," Peasegood said, stepping in after
      Bones' hesitation. "How did this come about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you asked me about my age, and I—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would advise against further facetiousness, boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo struggled briefly against the ropes once more. "That was
      supposed to be another shrug. Fine, have it your way. You-Know-Who
      offed me in the Chamber of Secrets last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretend, for a moment, that we <em class="calibre7">don't</em> know who,"
      Peasegood said. "Don't think you're the first to use the phrase
      'you-know-who' under Veritaserum to <em class="calibre7">imply</em> a deceased Dark
      Wizard as cover for another. A Dark Wizard, by the way, who has
      been deceased for a decade now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo rolled his eyes. He still had <em class="calibre7">that</em> amount of
      control, at least. "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. But you knew that
      already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peasegood glanced at Bones, now sharing her uncertainty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can drop the act," Milo said. "We both know you two aren't
      calling the shots in this conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones simply shrugged in response, but Peasegood's
      expression went completely blank, almost as if he'd been switched
      off. "How did you survive, boy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was brought back to life by magic," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Impossible," Bones said. "I am closer than <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> to
      immortality. You must have used some form of trick. A patsy,
      perhaps, controlled from afar with the Imperius Curse and disguised
      as you through means of Polyjuice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You lived in my head for the better part of a year," Milo said.
      He didn't often get the chance to really tick off the campaign's
      BBEG, and he decided he'd make the most of it while he could. "You
      <em class="calibre7">know</em> I'm not like other wizards; I can do things you've
      only dreamed of. Death is really no obstacle for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix tells me that you don't feel pain," Bones said in a
      low voice. "She says the Cruciatus Curse has no impact on you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You saw that firsthand last year," Milo said. He really wished
      he could shrug, it would make the whole 'nonchalant in the face of
      danger' act much more convincing. And fun. "Veritaserum makes me
      tell the truth, but it <em class="calibre7">doesn't</em> make me answer you. You
      won't get any useful information out of me. There's not a lot you
      can actually do to me short of killing me," Milo said, "so why
      don't we get this over with?" His best bet, as far as he could
      tell, was annoying Riddle—who he was now completely certain was
      controlling Bones and Peasegood—to the point where he slipped up
      and revealed something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Bones said, "But I don't need to kill <em class="calibre7">you</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. He wasn't sure where this was going, but he didn't
      like it. She reached into her robes and pulled out a very large,
      very still, brown-and-white rat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mordy," Milo whispered despite himself. "He's not—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dead? No. Only Stunned—for now. Which is how he will remain,
      unless you answer my questions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo swallowed. He doubted he could swing a <em class="calibre7">deus ex
      machina</em> for his Familiar, and even if he could, he wasn't sure
      it was <em class="calibre7">possible</em>. It was another gray area in the
      rules—dead Familiars could be replaced, but it wasn't clear if they
      could be brought back to life. No-one cared about them enough to
      find out. They weren't <em class="calibre7">important</em>. And even if they could
      be, the loss of a Familiar incurred massive XP damage on the
      animal's master, and Milo had lost enough levels for one day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beyond that, though, Mordenkainen was <em class="calibre7">his</em> Familiar,
      dammit. His responsibility—and his friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Drip… drip… … drip…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you want to know?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where does Harry Potter live when he's not at Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. When it came down to it, he was just so
      <em class="calibre7">tired</em>. He'd already had his psyche steamrolled by the
      Dementor; all he wanted now was to go eat some more chocolate and
      maybe have a nap. He didn't want to have to pick between his
      Familiar and Harry. He had no spells, no plans, no Amulet of
      Protection from Evil/Good/Law/Chaos/Megalomaniacal Evil Wizards,
      and no-one who knew where he was. His hopes of rescue were dashed
      with the reveal that the possessed Ministry goons had taken his
      rat, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the end of the day, he didn't really have any option. If he
      didn't tell Voldemort, then Mordy would die—and, in all likelihood,
      so would Milo. If he <em class="calibre7">did</em> spill the beans on Harry's summer
      home, then Harry would certainly die, while Milo and Mordy would
      <em class="calibre7">almost</em> certainly die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A conversation I had with my sister the other day got me
      thinking about resource allocation. You know, how X amount of money
      can buy one of Y or twenty of Z and whatnot. In my adventures,
      before I came to this world, my companions and I once encountered
      an isolated tribe eking it out in the ruins of a lost city; the
      descendants of an expedition sent to gather a rare form of privet
      shrub for perfume. It was terrible perfume—the smell of Number Four
      Privet Drives my sister crazy. They could barely scavenge enough
      food to survive, and almost every night one of them was picked off
      by a nearby band of troglodytes, or robbed by kobolds. They had no
      magic, barely any shelter, and practically no weapons—but the thing
      that really stood out to me was the socks. The majority of them
      went barefoot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do assume that, sooner or later, you will get to the point,"
      Bones said. "If you do not, your rat will die. Taking, as I
      understand it, much of your power with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm getting there," Milo said. "You were, what, fifty or sixty
      when you lost your body?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sixty-six," Bones said. "A problem that has since been
      remedied."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, sure. Now, for this next bit of the story, I need to make
      a couple of educated guesses. I don't know much about your world
      and its history, see. But I know that, back in Myra (City of Light!
      City of <em class="calibre7">Magic</em>!), an average person bought six pairs of
      socks every year. You can thank the incredible number of skill
      ranks I've thrown into various Knowledge skills over the years for
      that fact. They weren't stockpiling them, though; those socks were
      just to replace their losses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're stalling, now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not. You can believe me, because I'm under Veritaserum,
      that I'm getting to your answer. Just bear with me for a moment.
      I'm assuming, because people are so much richer, that people here
      get more socks than the Azelan peasants did. You strike me like a
      rich kid, so I'm going to take a wild guess and say you could get
      replacements for the ones you lost Under a Staircase whenever you
      wanted with a Little Whinging, and as such you went through
      somewhere around ten pairs of socks a year. That's six hundred and
      sixty pairs of socks before you were en-tome-ed, pardon the pun, in
      that diary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Drip… drip…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have twenty seconds before I kill your rat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There were only a hundred and twenty-three people in the tribe
      when I saw them. I bet they would take better care of their socks
      than you do, because they wouldn't be able to replace their losses.
      They wouldn't lose them at night, they wouldn't throw them out
      because they were too lazy to darn them. I bet they could get a
      solid <em class="calibre7">year</em> out of a single pair of socks, and they'd get a
      lot more enjoyment out of them than you did. They'd be among their
      most treasured possessions. Six hundred and sixty pairs of socks
      could keep that entire tribe's feet warm for five years. I'm sure
      there's places like that in your world, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five… Four… Three…."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You're interested in finding Harry Potter. I understand that.
      But Harry Potter's my <em class="calibre7">friend</em>. You've been in my head long
      enough that you know that I don't let anything happen to my
      friends. I take <em class="calibre7">precautions</em> to protect them. I've made a
      series of bolt-holes for my friends to hide in the summers, if need
      be. One such hiding place is one hundred and seven miles due south
      of Hogwarts concealed beneath an oak tree that's been split by
      lightning. If I were you, I would look there first for Harry Potter
      in the summer. Here's my point: if your mother had had the common
      decency to simply strangle you when you were first born, and the
      socks you wasted in life were given to the needy, that's
      twelve-hundred combined foot-years of warmth added to the world. I
      know where I'm going when I die," Milo said. "I've seen it.
      Remember, I'm under the effects of Veritaserum, so you can believe
      that I believe what I'm about to say is one hundred percent true,
      you are a <em class="calibre7">gods-damn waste of</em> <em class="calibre7">socks</em>, Riddle. But
      it's a moot point, because I'll end you well before then. If you
      want to live to see that summer, you may as well just kill me
      again. Now let my rat go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everything Milo said was technically true. He'd even said
      precisely where Harry lived between school years. And if he were
      Voldemort, he <em class="calibre7">would</em> look under random trees and in forests
      to find Harry, because completely wasting his time would be better
      for the world than trying to succeed on his objectives. Were Milo
      Voldemort, he'd also very likely drown himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones' eyes twitched. She pointed her wand at
      Mordenkainen, and began to speak. "I think not. <em class="calibre7">Avada
      Ke</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door behind her opened quickly, flooding the room with
      light. A tall, ancient man wearing horribly-clashing purple and
      magenta robes stood in the doorway, his white beard almost reaching
      his waist. A dozen or so witches and wizards of various description
      peered into the room curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And here we have the famous third lower janitorial closet,
      considered enormously significant among janitorial historians due
      to its—oh, pardon me," the man said, peering over his half-moon
      spectacles. "This isn't the third lower janitorial closet at all.
      In fact, unless I am quite mistaken, these are the long-unused
      Department of Magical Law Enforcement interrogation cells. Not to
      be re-opened except in times of war. Clearly, there has been some
      misunderstanding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore?" Milo choked out. He could hardly believe it. No,
      scratch that—when it came to Dumbledore, he could believe
      <em class="calibre7">anything</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In fact, a <em class="calibre7">number</em> of mistakes seem to have been made,"
      Dumbledore said, looking at his little visitor's badge. "Not the
      least that I am, in fact, not a tour guide. Do forgive me, it's a
      mistake anyone could have made. Much like accidentally, and, I'm
      afraid, quite illegally, interrogating a minor without just cause
      or due process."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Imperiused Bones stared at Dumbledore completely
      disbelievingly for a moment before rallying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No visitors!" she snapped. "How did you even get in here? The
      door was locked!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I did quite wonder about that," Dumbledore said, giving
      Milo a quick wink. He turned back to his tour group. "The third
      lower janitorial closet hasn't been locked since—can anyone tell
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since the Goblin Uprisings of 1743," Milo called out, choosing
      to fully embrace the surreal. "When they were used as a last refuge
      by Ministry staff in an attempt to escape the reprisals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bravo!" Dumbledore said. "Two points for Gryff—oh, excuse me.
      I'm not a professor anymore, either. I'll have to write Minerva
      after this tour—" he gasped quite authentically, looking at the
      tour group as if it was his first time seeing it. "Dear me, things
      <em class="calibre7">do</em> seem to be going wrong today!" he exclaimed. "This
      isn't a tour group; it's the entire assembled Wizengamot!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everybody out!" Peasegood shouted, snapping out of his neutral,
      switched-off expression. "This is a restricted area!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed it is, young man," Dumbledore said. "Would you believe,
      however, that this badge"—he pointed at his visitor's badge—"says
      that <em class="calibre7">I'm</em> the Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, incidentally
      the highest court in the land—speaking metaphorically, of course,
      not geographically—and that, therefore, in legal matters, I rather
      outrank you? Believe me, I'm quite as surprised as you are! I'm
      sure they'll sort all this out sooner or later, but in the
      meantime, I'm going to have to suspend this illegal interrogation
      and bring this child to where he belongs. All in favour?"
      Dumbledore glanced back at the Wizengamot, most of whom nervously
      raised their hands, clearly feeling out of their depth. "Very well,
      motion passed." Dumbledore flicked his wand casually, and the ropes
      holding Milo to the wall were severed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones looked like she was trying very hard not to murder
      everyone in sight—which, now that Dumbledore was in the room, Milo
      doubted she would be capable of, Dark Lord-possession or no. At the
      very least, with the door now open, she couldn't guarantee that
      there would be no witnesses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's go, Milo," Dumbledore said, holding out his free
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Milo said. First, he grabbed his broken Amulet and
      stuffed it in a pocket. Then he held out his hand to Amelia Bones.
      He could hear her teeth grinding from where he was standing as she
      grudgingly shoved Mordy into Milo's hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get out," she hissed, her knuckles clenched to white.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo practically skipped out through the doorway with
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you know I was here?" he asked when they were
      alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A little bird told me," Dumbledore said. "Or, more accurately,
      a little bird carrying a letter from an informant I have in the
      Ministry. I shouldn't go into further detail, the Ministry is
      maze-like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. "Maze-like?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, in that it is like maze."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It is… like maze?</em> Milo stared at Dumbledore blankly. "I
      think you're missing a word that sentence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maize as in corn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. That… explains absolutely nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "American corn grows in <em class="calibre7">ears</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The copper piece dropped. "You're saying the walls have ears,"
      he said, feeling a little silly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naturally. Are you all right?" Dumbledore asked seriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think so," Milo said. "Bones and Peasegood are being
      Imperius'd by You-Know-Who, though." Milo frowned at his broken
      Amulet. "And so might I be, for that matter. My memories might not
      be my own at this point. Make sure I cast a Protection spell on
      myself when I next prepare my spells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alas," Dumbledore said, "for I have been sacked, and can't go
      with you to Hogwarts. But I can ask Minerva to do so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That'll work," Milo said. "We don't want a repeat of what
      happened last year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I may ask," Dumbledore said, "what <em class="calibre7">did</em> happen last
      year? For, I must confess, I believed you to be dead. Wait, no, do
      not answer me. It is the nadir of manners to ask personal questions
      of one under the effects of Veritaserum. We can discuss this matter
      later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you know they drugged me?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not mean to boast, but one does not get to be the Supreme
      Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards by collecting
      bottle caps, Milo. Though I did, I must say, have a modest
      collection in my office at Hogwarts. I wonder what Severus has done
      with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Milo said. "Can we finally go to Hogwarts now? I
      feel like this campaign is already half over."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Dumbledore said. "Take my hand."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
