<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 72: SD 19: The Grim and the Grave, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover...</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s35" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19: The Grim and the Grave</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Divinations," Milo said, looking at his timetable. He reached
      onto his shoulder and patted his rat on the head. "Do you see that,
      Mordy? We have <em class="calibre7">Divinations</em> next. I am going to be <em class="calibre7">so
      good at this</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even without his spellbook, Milo still had access to dozens,
      maybe hundreds, of Wizard Divination spells through his Spontaneous
      Divinations ability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the schedule said was 'top of the North Tower' by way of
      instructions. He tagged along with Neville and Hannah, who had a
      good sense of direction in Hogwarts' re-arranging hallways, up to
      the mysterious North Tower. Though they'd been confident at the
      outset, they quickly ran into problems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wish they'd given us a map," Neville said, huffing and
      puffing for breath after their third wrong turn, "or actual
      <em class="calibre7">directions</em>." They were standing at a T-intersection,
      totally stumped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's like they <em class="calibre7">want</em> us to be late," Hannah agreed.
      "This place is <em class="calibre7">impossible</em> to find. I'm starting to doubt
      the 'North Tower' is actually even on the north end of the
      castle…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged. "It's a test," he said, his mind racing.
      "Divinations is the art of discovering information with magic. This
      is something your magic and mine actually have in common, based on
      what I've read. If we can't find the classroom, we're clearly not
      ready to learn from the top Diviner in the land."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Hannah asked. "How do we know he or she is so good?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore <em class="calibre7">only</em> hires the best. What Professor
      McGonagall is to Transfiguration and Gilderoy Poptart was to
      Defence, this…" he glanced at the timetable, "'Professor Trelawney'
      will be to Divinations. Trust me. By June, when we'll be using our
      newfound mastery of Divinations to navigate the halls of Hogwarts
      with expertise, we'll be struck by the contrast between how hard we
      find this now and how easy it will be then. In fact, I'd bet copper
      to gold that the tower <em class="calibre7">moves</em> from week-to-week for that
      exact reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll see," Hannah said skeptically. "I'm not sure you're right
      more often than a magic eight-ball when it comes to this
      stuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should get my hands on one of those, then," Milo said,
      imagining a powerful crystal ball. "It'd make my job easier. So
      what do you guys think: right or left?" He was beginning to wish
      he'd used a ball of string to mark their path. He wasn't one
      hundred-percent-sure that they hadn't been here before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it helps," Mordy said, sniffing at the air, "From the right,
      I can smell… chamomile, mint, traces of bergamot, maybe some
      sandalwood. From the left…" he sniffed again. "…Mr. Filch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo repeated this new information to Hannah and Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right it is," Hannah said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were the first to arrive at the entrance to the classroom:
      a trapdoor on the ceiling with no obvious ladder or other means of
      entrance. A plaque read 'Sybill Trelawney, Divinations
      teacher.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's clearly it," Hannah mused. "But how do we get
      in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Child's play," Milo said, reaching into his Belt of Many
      Things. He gripped his hand on a polished wooden stock and pulled,
      withdrawing a very complicated device. It resembled a light
      crossbow, but with a spool of fifty feet of rope attached to it,
      and a spiked grappling hook in place of a bolt. As an experienced
      adventurer, scaling walls to reach trapdoors was <em class="calibre7">right</em> up
      his alley. It could only be better if the trapdoor led to a
      fifteen-foot square room with an orc guarding a chest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were a host of magical ways he could get up to that door,
      from a simple <em class="calibre7">Levitation</em> spell to creating a steep bridge
      with <em class="calibre7">Dark Way</em>, but for nostalgia's sake, Milo decided to
      go with an old classic instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville had a sense for these sorts of things by this point, and
      took a few surreptitious steps to his right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah, on the contrary, lit up like a Will-o-Wisp. "A
      <em class="calibre7">grapnel gun</em>," she breathed as Milo turned the crank. It
      was only the work of a moment, despite his frail arms and the
      massive force stored inside the wood of the weapon. Historically,
      depending on level of training, strength, and the design of the
      crossbow, a professional crossbowman could achieve at most one to
      two shots per minute with such a device. But even the weakest, most
      novice Commoner child of Milo's world could maintain a rate of
      sustained fire approximately ten times that, requiring only a Move
      Action to reload.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo pressed the stock to his cheek and took aim at the
      trapdoor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I try?" Hannah asked eagerly. <em class="calibre7">It would be simple enough
      to turn my spare robe into a cape and cowl…</em> she mused. <em class="calibre7">All
      I'd need then are batarangs.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged and passed the grapple-firing crossbow to her.
      Neville ducked as the business-end of the weapon swung past his
      face. "Just point and click," he said. "Couldn't be simpler."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah gingerly took the weapon and aimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Shatter</em>," Milo muttered. The trapdoor exploded into
      splinters as Hannah fired, and the grappling hook flew through the
      opening. There was a <em class="calibre7">clink-clink-clink</em> as the hook dragged
      along the stone floor before anchoring itself on the lip. A
      particularly viciously-splintery chunk of wood crashed into the
      ground where Neville had stood but a moment before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll go up first," Milo said. "If things go wrong, I can
      heal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rope was close enough to the wall that he could sort of
      'walk' up the wall using his arms as support, which wasn't exactly
      <em class="calibre7">fun</em> but got the job done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he finally pulled himself through the wreckage of the
      trapdoor (getting splinters stuck in his robes, to his annoyance)
      he was greeted with two enormous eyes locked directly at his.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What did you do to my door</em>!?" the creature
      shrieked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo recoiled and almost fell, but the creature grabbed him by
      his collar and yanked him away from the hole.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that he realized that the creature was, in fact,
      human. The giant eyes were really enormous spectacles worn by one
      of the strangest people he had ever seen. Her clothes were
      concealed behind dozens of chains, bangles, rings, and beads, the
      weight of which nearly caused her slight frame to buckle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Milo was put back on the ground, his foot brushed against a
      silvery rope ladder, which he kicked down the hole behind him. It
      would be a substantially speedier ascent than on the rope, he
      reasoned, and the longer he was away from the rest of the party,
      the more his teeth itched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A glance down the hole told him that the other students were
      beginning to assemble down there, looking up in confusion at the
      splintered trap door. A great 'ahhhhh' of realization rose up from
      the crowd when they saw Milo's face, now knowing who was
      responsible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Milo apologized. "I didn't see any other way up
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This simply won't do," the strange woman—Professor Trelawney,
      presumably—said. "I'll have to get Hagrid to make a new one. It
      could take days. Five points from…" she eyed Milo up and down.
      "…Hufflepuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Slytherin," Milo lied baldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," she said. "Five points from Slytherin, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the other students filed in, Professor Trelawney glided over
      to a large armchair by the fire. The classroom itself was bizarre,
      even by Hogwarts standards. Rather than rows of chairs and desks,
      the room looked like a tavern for high elves. The floorspace was
      packed with small circular tables, armchairs, and pouffes. The
      combination of being at one of the highest points in the castle,
      the crackling fireplace, and the lack of windows or air flow made
      Milo yearn for the <em class="calibre7">Endure Elements</em> effect of his old
      robes. The walls were lined with spell components and foci, from
      candles to feathers to sticks of incense and bone runes—curiously,
      etched in Dwarven. Milo wondered if, given that Common was
      identical to this world's English, all of his world's languages had
      a local equivalent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome," Trelawney said as they found seats. "How nice to see
      you in the physical world at last."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded. It made sense; a Diviner who rarely left her tower
      would still have many ways of observing the goings-on in the
      castle. She likely would have been a huge help last year in finding
      Slytherin's Monster, had they only known to ask her. He'd only just
      sat down before whipping out a stack of paper and a quill and began
      jotting notes:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-local Divination seems largely equivalent to mine</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to Divination," Trelawney said. "I am Professor
      Trelawney. You may not have seen me before. I find that descending
      too often into the hustle and bustle of the main school clouds my
      Inner Eye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Double-movement and crinoline skirts provide penalties to
      local Divinations.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned, then underlined that last one, and added, "<em class="calibre7">How
      to exploit?</em>" Which he then circled several times. Could a
      skeleton hamster constantly double moving in a wheel replicate the
      'hustle' effect, thus providing countermeasures against the local
      Scrying equivalent? Perhaps if the hamster was wearing a miniature
      bustle…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you have chosen to study Divination, the most difficult of
      all magical arts. I must warn you at the outset that if you do not
      have the Sight, there is very little I will be able to teach you.
      Books can only take you so far in this field…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Sight=True Sight? Arcane Sight? Darkvision?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned as he heard Trelawney talk about books. Based on
      everything he'd heard Hermione say, in this world, people
      <em class="calibre7">could</em> learn virtually any skill or ability from a book.
      The kind of learning Trelawney was talking about—a combination of
      in-born ability and practical experience—was much closer to how
      <em class="calibre7">he</em> worked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">-Possible convergence of rules sets?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This he underlined several times as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Many witches and wizards," Trelawney continued, "talented
      though they are in the area of loud bangs and smells and sudden
      disappearances, are yet unable to penetrate the veiled mysteries of
      the future. It is a Gift granted to few."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre7">Divinations possibly based on different ability score than
      other magic?</em> Milo noted. He took in Trelawney's outlandish
      appearance and flamboyant clothing. <em class="calibre7">Addendum:</em> <em class="calibre7">Possibly
      Charisma-based</em>, he wrote. Milo frowned. Loud bangs, smells,
      and sudden disappearances pretty much <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> described
      his modus operandi.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This went on for a bit, with Trelawney proclaiming various vague
      but foreboding things about people in class before giving them
      their assignment: drinking tea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is the kind of assignment I could get used to," Hannah
      said, sipping at the steaming cup and reclining in her
      armchair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo couldn't help but agree. "Beats Potions," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once they'd finished the tea, they were to perform a complex
      maneuver with the teacup—swilling them three times with their left
      hand, then flipping the cup upside-down to allow the leaves to
      drain onto their saucer. That done, Milo traded saucers with Hannah
      and consulted his textbook.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you see?" Hannah asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhhh," Milo said, hoping he wasn't going to have to invest
      precious skill ranks into Profession (Tasseographer) as he looked
      at the amorphous blob, "could be a shambling mound, a gray ooze, or
      an otyugh. Hard to say. Oh, this bit here is a down arrow, which
      means…" he consulted the text book. "'No, Bad, or Wrong
      Direction.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo glanced around to check that no-one was watching, then
      surreptitiously spun Hannah's saucer around. "Nevermind," he said.
      "Make that an <em class="calibre7">up</em> arrow, for 'Yes, Good, or Right
      Direction.' So that's some good news. Do you see anything in
      mine?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looks kind of like an eight-pointed star," Hannah said. "Like
      two squares overlapped at a right angle. It would have been
      perfect, except one of the points is a weird blob."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I see?" Milo asked, peering over at his own vision. Hannah
      was right—the tea leaves <em class="calibre7">did</em> form a surprisingly regular
      eight-pointed star, except for one point, which was deformed. Milo
      wondered if he'd slipped slightly flipping the teacup and messed up
      his fortune. "What's the book say that means?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well…" she scanned the book. "There's the eight-pointed star of
      chaos, but that's more like a wheel with pointy bits coming out,
      and much less geometric."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a relief," Milo said. "So it's nothing then? That was
      always a possibility. Trelawney said without the Sight that—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's a copper's badge," Hannah said suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's that?" Milo flipped through the book looking for the
      symbol.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not in there," she said. "Look—seven points, but the top
      point is the crown."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can you tell it's copper?" Milo asked. "Everything's
      tea-coloured."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, uh…" Hannah thought for a moment. "Copper as in police. A
      guard," she clarified. "Like the Muggle woman at the train station
      that also arrested you at Harry's place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Iiiinteresting</em>," Milo said slowly. "She seemed like a
      dead end to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it's saying you should reach out to her?" Hannah asked.
      "Though it just as easily could be a warning. Maybe we should ask
      the professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As if on cue, Trelawney cried out from across the room. "The
      Grim, my dear, the Grim! The giant, spectral dog that haunts
      churchyards! My dear boy, it is an omen—the worst omen—of
      <em class="calibre7">death</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo whirled around to see what was going on. Harry, Ron, and
      Hermione were sitting together on a table on the far side of the
      room. Harry looked pale, and all eyes in the class were on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned, deep in thought. Other students rushed over to
      examine Harry's tea leaves and examine the Grim for themselves, but
      Milo sat very still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">An omen of death.</em> What could that possibly mean? As a
      rule, Milo was very, <em class="calibre7">very</em> cautious around predictions of
      the future. Magic, especially Divinations, could be a very reliable
      source of information about the <em class="calibre7">present</em>, and occasionally
      even the past, but the <em class="calibre7">future</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo wasn't going to rule it out, but it brought up a bunch of
      very tricky questions around free will and self-fulfilment. For
      instance, say Harry was foretold to slip in mud on Tuesday but,
      knowing the prophecy, chose to stay indoors, then how could the
      prophecy have foretold that he would do so, and so on. Those kinds
      of conundrums Milo had seen analyzed to death even in fiction from
      his world. The most popular genre of such fiction was pure fantasy,
      that is, fiction that speculated a world without a DM
      (Deterministic Meddler).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was this 'Grim' a sign of the DM showing its hand? Its intent to
      railroad? Milo shuddered at the thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the example earlier—that Harry had seen an omen to slip in
      mud on Tuesday—the DM could simply <em class="calibre7">force</em> Harry to go
      outdoors. This could be anywhere from subtle ('the fastest way to
      your next classroom is through the courtyard…') to overt ('you have
      a vision informing you that if you don't go outside right now
      you'll die and the universe will end.').</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The way Milo saw it, there were four possible interpretations
      for Harry's tea leaves:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first: Professor Trelawney, a Hogwarts professor who is
      therefore held to the same standards as the likes of Professors
      Snape and McGonagall, had made an error.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second: The DM was announcing its intention to railroad
      Harry on a path towards death. The omen didn't specify that it
      would be <em class="calibre7">Harry</em> who would die, necessarily, but still, few
      interpretations of the omen could be considered <em class="calibre7">good</em>. This
      was the worst-case scenario: if the DM would strip away Harry's
      free will like that, then it stood to reason that the DM would
      intervene and railroad on <em class="calibre7">anything</em> that went against its
      plan, and therefore this whole exercise was pointless and Milo
      could have stayed home in Myra <em class="calibre7">(Cityoflight!Cityofmagic!)</em>,
      and doing so would have made no difference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The third: Everyone was reading way too much into this omen.
      Perhaps, rather than literally revealing the truth of the future,
      the tea-leaf-reading-exercise was more of a nudge. Maybe a die was
      rolled against a table to reveal your fortune (in which case, a
      natural '1' was certainly this 'Grim'), and, depending on your
      roll, you got a bonus or penalty to a relevant die roll for a few
      days or some such. In this example, a vision of 'death' would
      probably result in a penalty to Fortitude saves, or possibly any
      saving throw against a death effect. The details were pure
      conjecture, but it was somewhat similar to, for example, the Cleric
      spell <em class="calibre7">Omen of Peril</em>—also, on the subject, a Divination
      spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fourth: rather than an omen at all, the tea leaves were
      providing <em class="calibre7">clues</em> <em class="calibre7">to the plot</em>. In this case, if
      Hannah's interpretation were correct, Milo ought to speak to that
      Muggle woman again, and Harry ought to look out for large dogs—on
      that subject, there was only one large dog that Milo had seen
      recently, and that was the Animagus-form of Sirius Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo ruled the first option right out; he couldn't imagine Snape
      messing up a potion or McGonagall a transfiguration. The second
      option he had no choice but to dismiss; regardless of its truth,
      there would be absolutely nothing he could do about it. In the case
      of the third option, there wasn't a whole lot Milo could or should
      do beyond keep a close eye on Harry for a couple of days. But in
      the fourth, there was clear action to take.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only problem was that little idea who or where that woman
      was, and therefore, very limited opportunity to follow up on the
      clue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked up. The classroom was empty save for himself and
      Trelawney, who was staring at him expectantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Milo said, standing up. "Sorry." He hurried down the
      silver ladder (reclaiming his grappling hook and rope as he did so)
      and hurried to catch up with the other students, who were heading
      to the Great Hall for lunch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona slipped through the crowds of Diagon Alley. She wore a
      ratty black hooded bathrobe from the Salvation Army over her
      borrowed clothes with the hood pulled up over her face. She'd lost
      her cane and old disguise when Malfoy burned down her flat, but was
      just able to manage a slow hobble without its aid. Travis' car was
      parked in a garage nearby; finding parking near Diagon Alley was
      surprisingly easy as wizards, it seemed, seldom bothered with
      Muggle means of transportation. She kept her face and eyes low,
      trying to avoid a repeat of the last time she was here, which
      seemed so very long ago now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually she made her way to the owl post office and slipped
      inside. She placed a knut and an envelope on the filthy table and
      left. She hobbled back through the crowded alley, the brick
      gateway, and the pub, and let out an explosive breath when she was
      back on the busy streets of London. She was shaking again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Get a GRIP</em>, <em class="calibre7">Fiona,</em> she scolded herself. She
      wondered, for a moment, if maybe skipping out on mandatory
      counselling hadn't been her wisest choice. She dismissed the notion
      and instead made for her borrowed car. She had a long way to go
      before she could rest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her response came when she was stuck in traffic caused by
      roadwork on a highway, based on the tourist bus that she was stuck
      in front of, just south of Hadrian's Wall. An owl landed on the
      hood of her car and pecked rapidly on the glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, okay," she eased, rolling down the driver-side window.
      The owl flew through the window and landed on the dash, sticking
      one leg out obediently. There was a piece of paper tied around its
      leg, which was something she'd never get used to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seeing as how the highway was virtually a parking lot anyway at
      this point, she figured she'd make the most of her time and read
      the letter on the spot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The response was what she'd hoped for, which was a relief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unless it was a trap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona drummed her fingers on the steering wheel. Of late,
      everything had started to look like a trap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It's not paranoia if there really</em> are
      <em class="calibre7">memory-erasing wizards out to get you</em>, she reminded
      herself. <em class="calibre7">Probably</em>. She was sure her counsellor would have
      had something to say about that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A long, angry honk told Fiona that traffic had begun to move.
      She reached a hand out the open window, flipped off the car behind
      her, then used a blue Bic crystal pen to write a hurried response
      on the back of the parchment (idly wondering if she was the first
      person ever to do something so anachronistic) and tied it back on
      the owl's leg. The owl bit her finger lightly, and Fiona remembered
      what she'd forgotten, and gave the bird a knut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seemingly satisfied, the owl took off through the window once
      more. Fiona hit the gas and the car lurched into motion, heading
      north.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The city, at least this part of it, was primarily dark, gothic
      stone that had been stained unevenly black from coal soot over the
      centuries. The taller and older the building, the more it looked
      like it had survived a terrible fire. Only these soot-blackened
      spires were visible through the thin fog from this height.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo wondered if it had been built originally by dwarves. Most
      of the buildings were made out of chiselled sandstone, and the
      enormous, sheer hills that rose out of the streets had a very
      'mountain home' sort of vibe, though the stained black gothic
      stonework screamed 'don't forget your garlic and holy symbols.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Over there, I think," Milo said, pointing at the tall steeple
      of a temple to some local deity. He and Hannah were floating high
      above the city on her broomstick, concealed in their black robes
      against the night sky. The letter had asked him to come alone, but
      since the Dementor had taken away his ability to <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em>,
      he needed a ride. Enclosed in the letter had been an
      extraordinarily detailed painting of the place they were to meet—it
      was a like a coloured, non-moving image from the <em class="calibre7">Daily
      Prophet</em>—with the message written on the back. Hannah called it
      a 'postcard.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The temple was surrounded by a huge graveyard; the grave markers
      were blackened sandstone like the buildings were. Several had
      crumbled over the centuries; the caretakers, were there any, were
      apparently content to leave them where they fell. Hannah dropped
      them gracefully behind a particularly grand one whose writing had
      long since worn away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo loved graveyards. There was absolutely zero way this
      meeting was going to end without him mowing down hordes and hordes
      of skeletons, and he relished the XP that would provide. If he
      played his cards right, he might even be able to <em class="calibre7">Teleport</em>
      them back home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She doesn't know you're going to be here," Milo said, "So you
      should try to lurk nearby. Be the ace in the hole in case something
      happens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fine being an ace," Hannah said, "but do I have to be in a
      hole? It's cold and damp out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A light flicked on, almost blinding Milo in the darkness. It
      didn't flicker like torchlight, but was steady and clear, and
      therefore almost certainly magical in nature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Holding the light in one hand was the Muggle woman that had
      arrested him over a year ago, and who he had seen in the train
      station earlier in September. She leaned heavily against a
      crumbling tombstone with her other hand. Her bloodshot eyes were
      weighed down with heavy bags, and her greasy hair was pulled into a
      clumsy bun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was a woman on the brink, Milo was certain, though the
      brink of <em class="calibre7">what</em> was less clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">said</em> come alone," she muttered. "Didn't think you
      would though. Your kind always flaunts the rules." She narrowed her
      eyes and her tone became sharp and commanding. "Keep your hands
      where I can see them. Drop the broomstick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shrugged and complied. He nudged Hannah to get her to as
      well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold up," she said, carefully leaning her broomstick against a
      grave marker. "I don't want it to get all muddy and wet. We're
      riding home on this, remember."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. At times, Hannah could have very little flair for
      the dramatic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who <em class="calibre7">are</em> you?" Milo asked. "Why did you reach out to
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman's eyes flicked around the graveyard. "Not here," she
      said, almost as if to herself. "They've known about this location
      for hours. Keep them on their toes. Don't let them prepare. Who
      knows what shit they've got hidden out here." She spoke up again,
      clearly addressing Milo and Hannah. "Come with me," she said. "It's
      not far."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm," Hannah interjected. "Can I bring my Cleansweep Seven? My
      parents bought it for my birthday; I don't want to lose it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman blinked twice, then nodded, slowly leading them out of
      the graveyard. She moved from tombstone to tombstone, taking
      limping, uneven steps in-between. Frankly, it was painful to
      watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wordlessly, Milo withdrew his quarterstaff from his Belt of
      Hidden Pouches and passed it to her. She looked at him
      suspiciously, but accepted the staff. After that, they made much
      better time as she leaned heavily on the darkwood shaft.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo flinched as they entered the street. Bright lights
      illuminated the foggy city, and a Muggle self-propelled car the
      size of the legendary Tarrasque barreled past him at unearthly
      speeds. Another car, this one small and Slaad-red, zoomed after
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boccob!" Milo cursed, pressing himself flat against the wall as
      far from the street as he could manage. He broke into a cold sweat
      thinking about the damage an object moving that fast would do to
      his feeble d4-hit die spellcaster frame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman ignored him and pressed on, but Hannah moved to his
      other side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll stay between you and the traffic," she said. "I guess it
      can seem pretty intense compared to a horse-and-buggy, huh? If you
      stay on this raised area, you'll be fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded mutely, and tried to look anywhere other than
      towards the street as he followed the Muggle woman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," he said quietly. He was mortified at this display of
      weakness in front of the Muggle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd just got the hang of walking along-side traffic when the
      woman evidently decided to succumb to latent suicidal urges and
      boldly walked straight into the street. Their island of raised
      concrete had run out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To his horror, Hannah followed the woman, seemingly without a
      second thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo froze at the edge of the raised concrete perimeter to the
      street. There weren't any cars coming in his direction <em class="calibre7">right
      now</em>, but he could barely conceive of their speed as it was and
      visibility was poor. It would only be the work of a moment for
      another behemoth to barrel around the corner, and all that would be
      left of Milo would be a hefty chunk of XP for the driver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah was halfway across the street when, as if just to further
      raise Milo's anxiety, she stopped and turned around to look at
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," she said, standing perfectly still right in the path
      of the gargantuan hyper-fast death machines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo simply shook his head mutely. This was madness. Fighting
      monsters was one thing—there was always a chance of victory—but
      this was psychotic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah held out her hand. "Trust me," she said. "It's perfectly
      safe. The lights direct traffic to wait while we cross."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo swallowed. He didn't trust any magical lights directing him
      where to go (<em class="calibre7">never</em> trust something if you don't know where
      it keeps its brain), but he <em class="calibre7">did</em> trust Hannah…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo broke into a run across the street, figuring that if he was
      going to risk death, he may as well risk it for as brief a time as
      possible. Hannah grabbed his hand midway through his sprint and
      pulled him to the alleged safety of the raised concrete.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jesus Christ," the Muggle woman muttered. "You've got to be
      kidding me. We're just going two more blocks. Are you going to make
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo nodded, well aware of the irony of a woman with a leg
      injury asking <em class="calibre7">him</em> if he'd make it to their mysterious
      destination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next two streets were Hell itself, but eventually they
      reached a small café that, based on the sign outside, would barely
      be open for another hour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here we are," the woman said. The entrance area resembled a
      miniature gift shop of sorts, selling toys and more Muggle
      "postcards," most of them elephant-themed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it'll be safe to talk here," the woman said. "No
      shadowy nooks, no hidden corners. Lots of witnesses." She nodded at
      the café staff who, even at this hour, were working through a long
      line of customers. "They also make a mean Earl Grey." She held out
      her hand to Milo and forced a smile. "I'm Fiona Smythe," she said,
      "Surrey Police." She hesitated. "Probably former Surrey Police. I
      haven't been able to check the post in a few days, but I'm sure the
      news wouldn't be good if I did. We met the other day at King's
      Cross."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shook her hand. "Milo Amastacia-Liadon," he said. "But
      we've met before then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona gave her head a small shake. "So they tell me. Grab a
      seat, I'll get you two some hot cocoa. I suspect we have a lot to
      talk about."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
