<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 74: SD 212: Light Treason, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s37" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21: Light Treason</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"The world is round, Milo," Hannah explained wearily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut the front door!" Milo exclaimed, nearly dropping his
      chalk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Friday evening in an empty classroom. This castle was
      enormous—Milo wasn't convinced that the interior occupied the same
      physical space as the exterior—and there tended to be dozens of
      rooms not currently in use. He liked to move around, switching
      rooms from time to time, to throw off any potential spies and
      assassins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His current secret room was full of chalkboards covered in
      mathematical equations, diagrams, and maps of England—the kind that
      crazy people on TV have, that are covered in brightly-coloured
      strings of yarn for no obvious reason. There were stacks of
      thousands and thousands of maps, some with accurate latitude and
      longitude, and others unironically labelled 'Here be Dragons.' It
      was, in short, perfect for Milo's needs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can the world be both limitless <em class="calibre7">and</em> round?" Milo
      asked, convinced he'd scored a point. "Answer <em class="calibre7">that</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not limitless," Hannah sighed, rubbing a pair of fingers
      into her forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But look at the edges of this map," Milo protested, pointing at
      a yellowed map that still had Prussia on it. "See? Oceans on either
      end. Who knows what's across them—that's the point! The DM—that is
      to say, the Divine Mapper—can just bolt on an extra continent for
      the next adventure with some scrap paper and sellotape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The world is round, like a ball," Hannah explained, mounting
      what she considered to be a heroic effort to maintain patience.
      "Those oceans are the same, see how they're labelled—okay, well,
      this map just says "Fathomless Blue Yonder," but you'll see the
      newer ones agree that both edges are the Pacific. See where it says
      "Pacific" in plain English? If you go off one end, you come back
      around the other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That… makes this more complicated than I'd first believed,"
      Milo admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His plan had been so simple to start. <em class="calibre7">Circle Dance</em>, a
      third-level Divination spell, told you the exact direction (but not
      distance) to any one person that you named and had met before. Back
      home, it was common practice to use two castings of <em class="calibre7">Circle
      Dance</em>, cast in different locations, to triangulate the exact
      current location of your target. All you'd need is a bit of math,
      typically handled by a Knowledge (Architecture and Engineering)
      check. For added convenience, with a Familiar in five feet—as
      Mordenkainen was, currently—the spell would affect both of them,
      preventing the need to waste a second spell slot, though due to the
      extremely short distance between them, the math was done with a
      <em class="calibre7">very</em> large number of digits after the decimal point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have a spell to do math for you?" Hannah asked.
      "You've got one to illegally copy textbooks. How is that
      possible?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If someone made one, they never published it," Milo said
      glumly. "You'd be surprised how rarely this comes up. Don't you
      guys have one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We usually leave this sort of thing to the Muggles," Hannah
      admitted. "Actually, you know who would be <em class="calibre7">great</em> at this
      sort of thing—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can do this without her help," Milo interrupted. "I just
      have to buckle down and make a skill check."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo rolled up his sleeves, strode purposefully up to the
      chalkboard, and drew a circle. He held the chalk in the air,
      staring at the circle for a moment, then, for good measure, added
      'X =' next to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're just being stubborn," Hannah said. "This is important
      enough that we should suck it up and—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got this," Milo said, narrowing his eyes, then fell
      silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minutes rolled by, with Milo standing perfectly unmoving, chalk
      hovering a millimeter above the board.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't take any chances with this," Hannah said. "Get the
      equation wrong and we'll storm into the flat of some random
      bystander."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a total lack of response, she waved a hand in front of his
      eyes. "Miiiiilo?" she asked, but he remained seemingly-catatonic.
      He was barely breathing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sighing, she sat down on a desk counter and waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After precisely twenty minutes of inactivity, Milo wrote an
      address, a floor, and a room number.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ye of little faith," he smirked. "Taking twenty solves all
      problems magical <em class="calibre7">and</em> mathematical. You <em class="calibre7">could</em> call
      me a—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah sighed. "<em class="calibre7">Don't</em> say 'mathmagician.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—mathmagician. Let's rock and roll."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona clutched the scrap of parchment, her sweat making the ink
      run. She was an hour from the nearest road, and her bad leg ached
      from the hike. Eventually, she found the rock described, which was
      the only feature distinguishing this sheep pasture from the dozen
      or so she'd passed along the way. They were in Weatherwax country,
      and boy was it <em class="calibre7">boring</em>. The rock itself was huge, sitting
      smack dab in the middle of the grassy field as if God had shaken it
      out of His holy sandal, then forgotten about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The whole while, she couldn't shake the feeling that she was
      being…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…watched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An enormous black dog stood silhouetted on the hill against the
      setting sun, staring right at her, which was just about the
      creepiest thing she'd ever seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Keeping the dog in the corner of her eye, Fiona felt about the
      rock for the promised opening. Though they were on the other side
      of the country, this rock, exactly like the last one,
      de-materialized as she touched it. It was like one of those
      frustrating illusions, where the tacky fruit hat turned into a duck
      or whatever, depending on how you squinted at it. She could still
      see the rock, and it wasn't exactly <em class="calibre7">transparent</em>, but she
      could, just as clearly, see the tunnel heading down into the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her feet found simple wooden slats spiked into the earth that
      formed a crude staircase as she descended. She had to stoop, which
      her leg did <em class="calibre7">not</em> like, as the ceiling got lower and lower.
      It wasn't long before she had to fish a torch out of her pocket. It
      was one of those tiny ones, barely larger than the nine-volt
      battery that powered it, that lit up a room like a second sun but
      died practically as soon as you'd hit the button.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room she illuminated was the twin of the one outside
      Bristol, complete with the medieval weaponry hanging on the walls.
      She found, and promptly collapsed onto, a crude wooden chair
      identical to the last one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wondered if this was what getting old felt like. It seemed
      like just a few days ago, she was a bright-eyed rookie, ready and
      eager to tackle the wrongs of the world. There had been such a
      clear line between right and wrong, then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was still wrong, that's for sure, and it was as clear as
      it had ever been. More so, now, that the gang she was after wore
      Hallowe'en masks and robes. It was the <em class="calibre7">right</em> that seemed
      ever-more amorphous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was she <em class="calibre7">doing</em> out here? Where had it all gone
      wrong? She has no job, no money, no family, no future. Most of her
      old classmates had kids by now, but what about her? A bum leg, a
      vendetta against evil, and a crappy torch?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She bent down to rub her aching leg when she noticed, blocking
      the only tunnel out, was the enormous black dog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Reminding herself that, since monsters were in fact real and
      that this might well be a killer demon-dog doing the will of an
      evil shaman or something, she snatched the first thing off the
      weapon rack behind her that she saw—a five-foot pole with a
      razor-sharp spike-and-crescent-blade-shaped-blade-thingy on the
      end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Back off</em>," she snapped at the animal, pointing the
      bizarre blade of the polearm at it. She glanced back at the weapon
      rack to see if there was anything a little less ridiculous on the
      menu, and when she looked back, the dog was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In its place was a man who looked just about how her leg felt.
      He had long, dirty black hair with a piece of white sheep's wool
      stuck in it, and wore tattered old robes. Oddly, he looked almost
      exactly how Fiona had always pictured Aragorn when the hobbits
      first met him, though she wasn't sure if that was good new or not.
      Was it 'looked foul but felt fair,' or 'looked fair but felt foul?'
      How did smelling foul factor into the algorithm?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you," Fiona said slowly, keeping the blade as steady as
      she could; an awkward maneuver given the torch she was also trying
      to balance. "You're Sirius Black. An escaped killer." She'd read
      about him in the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>; allegedly, he was in
      cahoots with Milo, though she found that singularly unlikely.
      "You'll find I won't go down as easily as those bystanders in
      '87."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius face turned stony. "I see," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Just keep him talking</em>, Fiona thought. He wasn't holding
      a wand, so she'd have a second or two of warning while he drew,
      twiddled it about, and muttered a spell before she died. Though, as
      he apparently could turn into a giant dog, he might not need a
      spell to kill her. Judging by movie standards, which was all she
      had to go on at this point, going full werewolf would take several
      seconds at least, and she felt no compulsion to sit around like a
      Sailor Moon villain during a lengthy transformation sequence. She
      didn't know what being stuck with a stupid-looking polearm while
      undergoing massive physical change would do to a person, but she
      hoped it wouldn't be good. All she had to do was buy enough time
      for reinforcements to arrive—they were already several minutes
      overdue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Thirteen year olds</em>, she reminded herself. <em class="calibre7">That</em>
      was her rescue plan. <em class="calibre7">Children</em>. Good God, what was she
      <em class="calibre7">doing</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did Malfoy send you to finish me off?" she asked. "Is that why
      he sprung you from Alcatraz?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Azkaban</em>," Sirius corrected flatly. "Where, it should
      be mentioned, they sent me without a trial."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona frowned, and inadvertently lowered her blade-on-a-stick.
      "You're lying," she said, offended at the very idea of such a
      breach of due process. "Magical Britain is still Britain, and not
      even those nutters would do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The star witness was Cornelius Fudge," Sirius explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Ah, so he's insane</em>. She tried to imagine a murderer
      claiming that Margaret Thatcher had personally framed him for
      murder, and had to fight the urge to laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's pretty unlucky," Fiona said, carefully watching her
      tone. "The Minister for Magic himself? That's a raw deal, any way
      you look at it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think I'm crazy. <em class="calibre7">I'm not crazy</em>," Sirius snarled,
      taking a half-step forwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona flinched, raising the blade to throat-height. "<em class="calibre7">Back
      off</em>," she snapped. "These are my only clothes, and I
      <em class="calibre7">don't</em> want to have to spend all night scrubbing arterial
      spray out of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius froze. "Who <em class="calibre7">are</em> you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Fiona</em>!" the scandelized voice of a young boy came from
      the entrance. "Drop the guisarme! He's on our side! And with -4 to
      hit, you're better off using your bare hands!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona looked over Sirius's shoulder to see Milo and Hannah
      staring at them, horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slowly, she laid the weapon—the guisarme—on the table, watching
      Sirius closely as she did, ready to snatch it back up if need
      be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fiona, this is Sirius Black," Milo explained rapidly. "An
      innocent man who took the fall for a crime he didn't commit—a
      <em class="calibre7">classic</em> hero backstory. Sirius, this is Fiona Smythe, the
      only Muggle to ever go toe-to-toe with Death Eaters and come out on
      top."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would someone frame you?" Fiona asked suspiciously. "I've
      seen a <em class="calibre7">lot</em> of perps claim they've been framed over the
      years, and you know how many were on the level? Not <em class="calibre7">one</em>.
      Framing a person takes way more effort and planning than most
      criminals are capable of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These were no ordinary criminals," Sirius said. "They'd just
      murdered Lily and James Potter and needed to cover their tracks.
      They thought they were moments away from seizing power
      nationwide."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Fiona said, deciding it wasn't worth arguing the point.
      "Even if that's true, why are you working with Milo? What does any
      of this have to do with you? You broke out of wizard prison; you
      should be halfway to Mallorca by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not until I finish what I started," Sirius said. "War's not
      over yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona glanced at Milo. "Uh, this guy seems a little… unstable.
      Do we really need him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's our ride," Hannah interjected. "He can Apparate, and we
      can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Time is short," Milo added. "We need to work together, don't
      you understand? There's <em class="calibre7">four</em> of us, now—and with you, we
      finally have a tank. This is practically a balanced party, for
      once! Four's the perfect number for fighting evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona looked at his earnest, face and considered this barmy idea
      for a long moment. The balance of probability said she was already
      insane anyway, so why not add a werewolf into the mix? Besides, she
      was tired of going it alone. The weight of responsibility
      accumulated over the last year was slowly killing her, and at this
      point, she'd take any help she could get.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, what the Hell," she said eventually. "What have I got to
      lose? So, how does this work? Do we all just say 'Scotty, four for
      transport' and then zip away?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll Side-Along Apparate," Sirius said. "Stay close. Milo,
      where are we going?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"23 Church Lane, ten feet three inches off the ground—the second
      storey," Milo said. "Godric's Hollow." He moved up next to Sirius
      and placed a hand on his arm. A second later, a huge rat scurried
      out of one of Milo's belt pouches and sat on Sirius' shoulder.
      Hannah was next also touching Sirius's arm, and Fiona reluctantly
      followed suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Godric's Hollow, eh?" Sirius said in a voice so low it was
      almost a growl. "Fitting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should teleport a little ways away, surveil the area, then
      plan a multi-pronged—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," Sirius interrupted. That's when things got <em class="calibre7">very
      strange</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It felt a little like someone grabbed Fiona's nose and pulled it
      backwards through her head, turning her entirely inside-out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto Carrow woke to the sound of breaking glass. She snatched
      the wand from under her pillow and climbed out of bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She knew, sooner or later, that it would come to this. She'd
      left a lot of enemies behind her over the years, and it was only a
      matter of time before one of them took matters into their own
      hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What she <em class="calibre7">didn't</em> know was <em class="calibre7">who</em> was making their
      move. The Order of the Phoenix was long since scattered to the
      winds, and the DMLE was in Lucius' pocket. Unless it was Lucius
      himself, coming to silence a loose end? Or Bellatrix, trying to
      whittle away Lucius's supporters?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, it might just be her idiot brother coming home worse
      for drink, but she couldn't take that chance. Alecto pressed her
      back against the wall by the door, wand held at the ready, waiting
      for the attacker to enter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The doorknob turned, and Alecto raised her wand. It was almost
      completely dark save for faint moonlight coming through the open
      windows, but her eyes had largely adapted to the night, and at this
      range she wouldn't need much in the way of aim. The door opened a
      crack. She decided to show some restraint and use a Stunner to get
      answers out of the intruder later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupe—</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world went white as something akin to the Hogwarts Express
      smashed her head against the partially-open door. She slid to the
      ground to find herself pinned by a massive black animal. <em class="calibre7">How
      had it got in?</em> She'd watched the only door. Unless it had
      somehow climbed two floors of wall outside and entered through a
      window, but she'd never even <em class="calibre7">heard</em> of a dog doing
      something like that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She spotted her wand on the carpet ahead of her, and struggled
      against the animal to reach it. Its claws raked her arm, but she
      managed to touch it with the tips of her fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Almost there</em>, she thought frantically. <em class="calibre7">Then I can
      kill this mutt and get some answers</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her fingers closed around the base of the wand. She raised it,
      mustering up the hatred for a Killing Curse—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Shatter</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her wand was gone, replaced by hundreds of splinters up and down
      her arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius!" a woman shouted. "<em class="calibre7">Enough</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dog backed off of her, and rough hands grabbed her by the
      neck of her nightgown. A moment later, she was slammed back against
      the wall, face-to-face with that Muggle woman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You're nicked</em>," Fiona spat. Alecto struggled futilely,
      but was spun around and pressed face-first into the wall. A moment
      later, something cold and metallic clamped around her wrists.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona tossed the handcuffed witch into the cave's only
      chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're under arrest for…" she hesitated. What, exactly, was the
      crime associated with dressing up in masks and using magic to
      overthrow the government? "Oh, what the Hell. Treason. You're under
      arrest for suspicion of high treason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wh-<em class="calibre7">what</em>?!" the woman scoffed. "You have no authority
      over me! You're just a Muggle!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona grinned an evil grin. "And you're a British citizen who's
      levied war against the Crown."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What crown? Whose crown? What madness is this?" Alecto's eyes
      were wild. She looked around the room, seeing Sirius, Hannah, and
      finally, Milo. "<em class="calibre7">You</em>! I should have known you had a part in
      this! Everything that goes wrong in the world has your touch of
      madness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Flattery will get you nowhere," Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto turned to Sirius. "Black! Get me out of this! Why would
      you fight on the side of those who unjustly threw you in Azkaban?
      Don't you want revenge? The Dark Lord would welcome you by his side
      in a heartbeat. Kill these fools and end this farce!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius cleaned his ear with his finger. "I seem to have gone
      spontaneously deaf," he said. "Oh dear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose this is the point I should mention that you're
      entitled to legal counsel," Fiona said reluctantly. "We can wait
      and get a lawyer in here to represent you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And leave my fate in the hands of a common Muggle?" Alecto
      said, looking scandalized. "I think <em class="calibre7">not</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona pulled out a notebook and a cheap blue pen, narrating as
      she wrote. "The… suspect… waived… her right… to legal
      representation. Great, moving on.. oh, right—the charges." She
      leaned down to look the witch in the eye. "Treason is the only
      crime I'm aware of that still carries the death penalty in the
      United Kingdom," she said. "Traditionally, the punishment was
      executed—pardon the expression—by means of being dragged behind a
      horse, disemboweled, beheaded, and chopped into quarters. I'm
      unclear of the order of operations, there, but I'd personally opt
      to begin with the beheading."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blood drained from Alecto's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry," Fiona said. "They'd never do that to you, of
      course. The punishment for women, naturally, was to be burned at
      the stake like a witch. Pardon the expression."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Fiona's surprise, Alecto's eyes lit up. "At the stake, you
      say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah coughed. "Sorry to interrupt, Ms. Smythe, but you might
      want to know that we learned in History of Magic last year that you
      can't actually burn witches."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naturally not," Fiona said. "We're a civilized society, now. No
      judge in the land would sentence someone to burning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I wouldn't know anything about that," Hannah said. "I just
      meant that there's a simple charm from old witch hunting days to
      protect from just such a threat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No kidding?" Fiona said, her momentum totally thrown. "Wait, do
      you mean to tell me that the old medieval witch hunts <em class="calibre7">actually
      caught witches</em>? That they weren't just a bunch of angry mobs
      going around executing helpless women based on nothing more than
      suspicion, xenophobia, ageism, and sexism? That the only thing
      preventing them from working was that the <em class="calibre7">witches were immune
      to fire</em>?! That rather than 'dangerous and extra-judiciary mob
      justice,' the phrase 'witch-hunt' should mean 'it all would have
      worked except that they hadn't invented the guillotine yet?'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm, I suppose," Hannah said. "A lot of innocent Muggle women
      were burned under suspicion of witchcraft."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bet they would have appreciated a fireproof charm right around
      then," Fiona muttered. "Typical." She rounded on Alecto. "Don't
      think that you can magic your way out of this one, though," she
      said. "They changed the punishment to hanging, so unless you've got
      a Vertebrate-to-Steel Charm as well, you're clear out of luck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was true, though Fiona didn't mention that this hadn't been
      carried out since the Second World War. She doubted any modern
      judge would sentence someone to be hanged in this day and age, as
      any lawyer would have told Alecto.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">H-hanging</em>?" Alecto quailed, confirming no such charm
      existed. "Barbarian! You—you have no proof!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhhhh," Fiona said sarcastically, "oh, no! Proof! I completely
      forgot about to get any of that—except, oh, waitaminute, <em class="calibre7">the
      sworn testimony and contemporaneous notes of police sergeant</em>,
      you ruddy idiot. Plus mountains of physical evidence you and your
      gang left behind back in the 80s. Unless you used a spell that
      erase your fingerprints <em class="calibre7">each and every time</em> you killed
      some hapless Muggle? What about DNA evidence—do you even know what
      that <em class="calibre7">is</em>? No? I didn't think so. I've got dozens of coppers
      lined up that are just <em class="calibre7">itching</em> to solve a few cold-case
      murders you committed in your stupid war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My friends will decorate your courthouse with the judge's
      entrails before it gets that far," Alecto growled, blatantly
      seeking refuge in sheer bluster. "You have <em class="calibre7">no idea</em> who
      you're dealing with, Muggle. Let me go now and I'll ensure you're
      awarded a quick death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They'd have to go through me," Milo said. "Remember what
      happened when you and '<em class="calibre7">your friends'</em> tried your hands
      against me in the Gryffindor Common Room? Oh—unrelatedly, did I
      mention that I can find you anywhere you are in the world, in the
      work of a moment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto looked a little shaken, but said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For something as high-profile as a treason case, Muggle
      security will be out in force. I don't remember it, but I'm sure
      you do—you remember what happened to your brother when my colleague
      put a bullet in his leg? There's more where that came from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto scoffed, mustering up a bit of bravado. "We massacred
      your best, Muggle. We'll do it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah coughed. "Ms. Smythe can correct me if I'm wrong, but I
      saw an article in the <em class="calibre7">Guardian</em> that said there was over a
      hundred thousand police officers in the country."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A hundred… <em class="calibre7">thousand</em>…" Alecto croaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your voice will be hoarse and your wand arm will have carpal
      tunnel before you kill us all," Fiona said smugly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Never Tickle a Sleeping Dragon,'" Hannah quoted sagely. "You
      know, I'm starting to think the school motto wasn't talking about
      dragons at all, but Muggles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Merlin," Alecto whispered dejectedly. "I'm going to be
      hanged."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Weeeerrrrrrlllll</em>," Fiona mused. "There <em class="calibre7">might</em>
      be an alternative."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alecto looked up hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See, the thing is, much as I'd love to see you go to the
      gallows," Fiona said, "I don't actually care one way or the other
      about <em class="calibre7">you</em>, per se. You're nobody. But, see, if you could
      provide information leading to the arrest and conviction of a
      person of greater importance…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Say, Lucius Malfoy, for example," Hannah added helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…then I think I can persuade my comrades to look the other way,
      just this once, to the treason. Maybe we can stick lesser charges
      like conspiracy or assault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I wouldn't be hanged?" Alecto asked hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah. A token prison sentence and maybe some community service,"
      Fiona said breezily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you need me to do?" Alecto asked, finally broken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona grinned wickedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you ever heard of the Muggle phrase, 'to wear a
      wire?'"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
