<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>5. Headmaster Potter-Evans-Verres - Headmaster Potter-Evans-Verres Chapter 1: A Choice of Very Low Probability, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="5. Headmaster Potter-Evans-Verres"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: A Choice of Very Low Probability</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer: This is a spin-off of the fanfiction "Harry Potter
      and the Methods of Rationality". If you have not read that story up
      to at least Chapter 11 you will be missing out on important
      context. I will try to make the story clear for new readers, but it
      is intended for fans of Methods of Rationality and I will be trying
      to appeal to them first.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres had to wonder how it had all
      come to this. Not a week ago he was living a semi-normal life with
      his family in Oxford, and now here he was, arguing with a
      temporarily self-aware magical hat over whether or not he would end
      up turning evil.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Then I won't do that again! I'll be extra careful not to
      turn evil!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Heard it."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Frustration was building up inside Harry. He wasn't used to
      being outgunned in arguments, at all, ever, let alone by a Hat that
      could borrow all of his own knowledge and intelligence to argue
      with him and could watch his thoughts as they formed. How was he
      supposed to win an argument with himself?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Then stop trying to win the argument." The Hat
      said, its words appearing in Harry's mind as if he thought them
      himself. "You should be trying to find the best answer! You're so
      convinced you have to go to Ravenclaw that you won't listen to
      other alternatives."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So, what, I'm supposed to just get thrown into Hufflepuff
      based on a whim that I might turn evil? What about being with
      others of my own kind, or fostering my intellectual
      growth?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">If I had any intention of sending you off to
      Hufflepuff, you would have been sorted there already. I'm trying to
      sort you to where you belong, and all I'm saying is that you might
      be happier in Hufflepuff than Ravenclaw."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You can't be serious, can you? I've never had friends before
      because I was too absorbed in my studies. That's practically the
      definition of a Ravenclaw!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Wanting to learn more and valuing knowledge above
      all else are two entirely different things. I cannot tell you how
      many children I have sorted where they did not believe they should
      go because of that fact."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm aware of that, but that doesn't mean I don't value
      knowledge above all else. Everything we accomplished as a species,
      good or bad, has been due to our increasing knowledge. The moon
      landing, computers, the atomic bomb, none of them would be
      accomplished without dedicated scientists.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Those projects all required people with the traits
      of all four Houses to be effective. They needed people ambitious
      enough to believe it could be done, people hardworking enough to
      complete the projects, and people heroic enough to be launched into
      space on a dangerous rocket. The Hogwarts founders chose these
      Houses because all four traits are necessary to truly accomplish
      anything great. I believe you have these traits, and the other
      houses could help draw those traits out of you."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And, more importantly, you're worried that I could become
      the next Dark Lord.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a pause. Harry knew he was getting hung up a bit too
      much on this. The Hat was making valid points and was attempting to
      sort him into the best House, but Harry couldn't let go of the idea
      he was being pushed where he didn't belong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hat spoke patiently. <em class="calibre8">"Yes, your potential to become a
      dark lord does factor into my hesitance to sort you into Ravenclaw.
      As far as I can tell, with my limited memory on the subject, there
      have only been two Gryffindor Dark Lords and one Hufflepuff.
      Slytherin produces the most, but a handful have come from Ravenclaw
      as well. Gryffindor and Hufflepuff are not only valid options, but
      they are also the safest. Surely you understand my
      reasoning."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm all for avoiding risks, but I prefer to test things
      before jumping into them.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Oh sure, I'll just whip out my patented Sorting
      Hat Dark Lord Compatibility Test. I draw on your intelligence,
      remember? Besides, this conversation is becoming too long already.
      I'm only built to spend a maximum of one minute on anyone's
      head."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was suddenly very keenly aware that he was still sitting
      on the stool in the Great Hall. He tried to look over at the
      Ravenclaw table for Hermione, but he couldn't clearly see her among
      the hundreds of Ravenclaw students. He could pick out Fred and
      George exchanging nervous glances over at the Gryffindor table, but
      only because they brought attention to themselves earlier when
      Harry was called. The students still waiting to be sorted had
      started sitting down on the floor, unsure of how long this
      conversation would last. The whole hall was almost uncannily still
      and silent, with only the occasional sounds of people shuffling and
      the occasional metallic clanging coming from Snape as he idly
      compacted the twisted remains of what had once been a heavy silver
      wine goblet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Er...how long have I-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Longer than all the other first years put
      together. Far longer than anyone was expected to."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did notice he was getting progressively more tired as the
      conversation went on. He supposed it could presumably be strain
      from holding both sides of a heated argument.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Right, so lets finish up with this sorting before
      you collapse from exhaustion or I'm forced to hop off your head in
      frustration."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Is there any way you could do a test run of sorts? Sort me
      temporarily so I can test my dark lord potential?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">No. If I sorted you temporarily I'd have to sort
      you again at a later time, and I can't remember any children that
      are not currently under my brim, let alone sort them. Not to
      mention suddenly every child would come to me asking for a test run
      of their favourite Houses."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well, all things considered, that's not too bad an idea.
      Children's minds aren't fully developed at this age, they haven't
      even been through puberty yet, and they presumably make friends in
      all the Houses. Plus if people could sort into and out of Slytherin
      it might cut down on the bias against that House.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">No and that's final. Now we're going to find a
      reasonable answer to the question of where you will be sorted and I
      can finally get on to the other students."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced around the room again at all the expectant faces,
      he saw Professor McGonagall maintaining a stoic face as she
      clenched the podium in a white-knuckled grip. She probably thought
      he had infected the Sorting Hat and he was about to be sorted into
      the whole new House of Doom or something. Actually, he sort of had
      infected the Sorting Hat by turning it sentient. He wouldn't want
      to be sorted into a whole new House, but if he was a bit
      creative…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">No. No. No. This is so much worse than all your
      other suggestions."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Think about it, it's a perfect opportunity to test me! I'll
      be carefully monitored all the time and there has to be some sort
      of check on what I can do in that position. Wizards are primitive
      but they're not THAT primitive.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">I can't believe you're seriously considering
      this."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">My knowledge of the sciences means I could turn this school
      into an advanced modern school that could put Oxford to shame and I
      could learn about magic much more rapidly than I would with normal
      schooling. No other students could make you self-aware enough to
      sort them into anything besides the four houses, so it's not like
      this would happen again.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hat's response came slowly. <em class="calibre8">"You can't think of a
      problem with this decision, and by extension neither can
      I."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So clearly that means it's a smart thing to do!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">All that means is that you're too self-absorbed to
      see the obvious problems in front of you."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Your duty is to pick the best House to sort me into, and we
      found the answer.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Hat sighed. <em class="calibre8">"I guess I'm actually going to do this. I'm
      sure I would regret this if I were going to be self-aware
      afterwards,"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So was this your strangest conversation ever?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Conversation? Not even close. Decision?
      Definitely."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The frightened silence was broken by a single word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster!" called the Sorting Hat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some students screamed, the pent-up tension was so great. People
      startled hard enough to fall off their benches. Then a collective
      groan went through the Great Hall as they figured out the sorting
      wasn't even finished yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the Head Table, Dumbledore rose, his face puzzled. "Yes?" he
      addressed the Hat. "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't talking to you," said the Hat. "I was Sorting Harry
      Potter into the place in Hogwarts where he most belongs, namely the
      Headmaster's office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The room grew silent once more as everyone processed this
      information.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now I know this is new to you, but I'm sure if everyone works
      together this will be a smooth transition for-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hall exploded with noise.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
