<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>5. Headmaster Potter-Evans-Verres - Headmaster Potter-Evans-Verres Chapter 2: A Surprising Response, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="5. Headmaster Potter-Evans-Verres"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: A Surprising Response</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The doors to the Great Hall burst open, and into the room strode
      a heavy-set, square-jawed witch with greyed hair cropped close
      around her head. She was followed by a half-dozen other witches and
      wizards, all wearing the same official-looking robes. The hall
      quickly grew quiet again, with the murmurs of conversation barely
      louder than the sounds of the footsteps echoing through the
      Hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Amelia! How nice to see you. Oh, and you brought some
      Aurors with you!" Dumbledore said in a cheerful voice, with no
      indication that anything was wrong. "You really should have
      notified us in advance, though. You could have scared our new
      students with that entrance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mind was swimming as he processed this information. Why
      was Dumbledore so calm about this? Who were these people?
      Dumbledore appeared to know who they were, but he didn't expect
      them to show up. Didn't Hogwarts have wards against people getting
      in without the Headmaster's knowledge? How did they even learn
      about the Sorting so quickly? More importantly, how did they get
      here so quickly? It requires a concerted effort to get a half-dozen
      people organised and ready, even if they are an emergency response
      team. Did they have some way of knowing in advance? Most
      importantly, what were they going to do in response to the Hat
      sorting him into the Headmaster position? Most importantly, how
      could Harry not have seen this coming? There was a difference
      between keeping your money in underground vaults and not having any
      kind of checks on who becomes in charge of the largest school in
      the country.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough of the innocent act, Albus." the woman, Amelia, said.
      "You know why I'm here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, yes. Your grand-niece is starting her schooling this year.
      If I remember correctly, she was sorted into-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Hat, Albus." Amelia said through gritted teeth. "We need to
      check it for signs of magical tampering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, but you have to wait until after the sorting! There are
      still plenty of students who haven't been sorted yet! It wouldn't
      be fair to start the year with only some of them sorted!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ok, they're just worried about the Hat.</em> Harry thought
      to himself. <em class="calibre8">All I need to do is truthfully say that I didn't
      tamper with the Hat in any way, and I'll be fine.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well if we end up finding something wrong with the Hat, you can
      re-sort all of the students." Amelia gestured to a robed figure to
      her right, "Porter, you're in charge of this operation, make sure
      all possible diagnostic spells are used on the Hat. As far as we
      know, the Hat can't be destroyed, but it is still an irreplaceable
      magical artifact, so be careful with it." She then pointed at
      Harry, "Mr. Potter, come with me, we need to ask you a few
      questions about your conversation with the Hat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Then again,</em> a different part of Harry thought,
      <em class="calibre8">technically I did tamper with the Hat by making it
      self-aware.</em> Apparently that came from the inconvenient timing
      part of his brain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got up from his stool and walked over to Amelia. <em class="calibre8">Well
      whatever happens,</em> said a third voice, <em class="calibre8">I'm not going to
      give up my shot at Headmaster so easily, there's no way I'm getting
      another opportunity like this any time soon.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">HE IS COMING</em>," said a huge hollow voice that cut
      through all conversation like a sword of ice. "<em class="calibre8">THE ONE WHO WILL
      TEA-"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had leapt out of his throne and run straight over the
      Head Table and seized hold of the woman speaking those awful words,
      Fawkes had appeared in a flash, and all three of them vanished in a
      crack of fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">OH COME ON!</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely not!" Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was currently sitting in the Headmaster's office, with
      three important pieces of information he did not have before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Firstly, whoever built Hogwarts was clearly more concerned with
      showing off their magical expertise than making a proper structure
      for schooling. He could swear he was led <em class="calibre8">down</em> more stairs
      than <em class="calibre8">up</em> on the way to the Headmaster's office, but a
      glance out the window showed they were clearly higher up than they
      were before. Not to mention the moving staircases and the hallways
      which led nowhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Secondly, the person Dumbledore called "Amelia" was apparently
      Amelia Bones, Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement.
      The wizards she sent to check on the Hat were gathered from various
      branches of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, and the
      wizards who stayed with her were Aurors, sort of a Homeland
      Security SWAT force for wizards, only they were mostly called in
      for minor protection jobs since You-Know-Who's defeat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirdly, Dumbledore was playing up his innocence during the
      Sorting, and when he was being serious, he could get scary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus, be reasonable here. This is a huge fiasco and we need to
      figure out exactly what is going on." Director Bones replied,
      clearly trying to mask her impatience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is just a first year, he was only told about magic a few
      months ago, and he has only had his books for a few days. You
      tested his wand, he hasn't had a chance to cast a single spell
      yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't know what the situation is yet, and we need to know as
      much about the Sorting Hat's decision as possible. We aren't going
      to be tearing into his mind, we just need to use a drop of
      Veritaserum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will not allow one of my students to be interrogated by a
      squad of Aurors on their first day! You will have to wait until
      your team completes the tests on the Hat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," said Harry, "technically, I'm not one of your students,
      since the Hat never sorted me into a House."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore turned to Harry, concern clear on his face. "Harry,
      you don't have to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not afraid to tell the truth." Harry interrupted. He turned
      to Director Bones, "Draco mentioned Veritaserum at King's Cross
      Station, what does it do exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It forces you to tell the truth." Responded Director Bones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought for a second, he couldn't reveal everything about
      his conversation with the Hat, that could prove disastrous. "Does
      it <em class="calibre8">force</em> me to tell the truth, or just prevent me from
      telling lies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A single drop will only prevent you from telling lies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I see no problem with taking a single drop, I never tell
      lies anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry…" Dumbledore said</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough, Albus, the boy said he would do it." Director Bones
      drew a flask from her robes and unscrewed the top. "Open your mouth
      and stick out your tongue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did as he was told. He felt the Veritaserum drop on his
      tongue, it was completely tasteless. He wouldn't be able to tell
      the difference if his tongue was covered in it. He was going to
      have to be careful with any food or drink that was offered to him
      from now on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two plus two is th-four." Well it looked like it was
      working.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Did you, or did anyone else to your knowledge, cast a
      spell on or otherwise modify the enchantment on the Sorting Hat of
      Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aside from putting it on my head and speaking to it, no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Director Bones furrowed her brow. "Was there anything unique
      about your conversation with the Hat?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Of course,</em> Harry thought, <em class="calibre8">this is basically the
      head of the magical police I'm talking to. She's going to be
      thorough.</em> "Well yes, but everyone's interaction with the
      Sorting Hat is unique. What happened during my sorting could have
      happened to anyone who had my mental state."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Director Bones paused. A note of skepticism crept into her
      voice, "You claim that any student could convince the Hat to sort
      them into the Headmaster position, and yet they never did before
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not as simple as just asking the Hat to make you
      Headmaster." Harry was struggling to explain himself without
      revealing that he made the Hat sentient. "You need to change your
      entire method of thinking. You see...you see just about every other
      student that's attended Hogwarts in its history has either grown up
      being told stories about magic existing or explicitly seeing magic
      interact with their everyday life. Magic has internal consistency,
      but it doesn't appear to operate under any form of formal logic to
      a level where in order to advance to a certain level of magical
      aptitude you need to understand the underlying rules of magic.
      Muggle scientists have taken pretty much the opposite view, in
      order to succeed as a scientist you need to not accept anything
      implicitly. There are plenty of mathematical and scientific
      principles that have become centrally important to scientists
      through, basically, formalising something which seems intuitive. It
      may <em class="calibre8">seem</em> obvious that the energy to lift a car has to come
      from <em class="calibre8">somewhere</em>, but the laws of thermodynamics weren't
      made by people just accepting that as fact. So while the other kids
      were told the Sorting Hat sorted them into one of four Houses and
      therefore talked to the Hat exclusively about which of those Houses
      they would be sorted into, I talked to the Hat partially about
      being sorted into the Houses, but I didn't stop there. I considered
      other possibilities without my brain automatically censoring the
      ideas, and one of those possibilities was the position of
      Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Director Bones furrowed her brow, "I can't say I fully
      understand what you're trying to tell me, but it sounds like you
      were just the first person to consider being sorted into the
      Headmaster's office as an option. If that's true, then-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's quite a bit more complicated than that." Harry
      interrupted. "I can't explain everything about my conversation with
      the Sorting Hat, but rest assured this isn't something that will
      start happening all the time. Any other student wouldn't be able to
      negotiate with the Hat as well as I did, and even if they could,
      they couldn't be given this position if they had any doubts about
      it. Since having multiple students sorted into House Headmaster
      would be even more of a fiasco, they wouldn't be able to negotiate
      for it. I wouldn't have considered the possibility myself if I
      thought anyone else could get sorted there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Direcor Bones rubbed her forehead and sighed, "Whatever your
      concerns, I think you're going to have to tell me exactly how your
      conversation with the Sorting Hat went."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um," Harry scratched his neck nervously, "Like I said, I can't
      really tell you the specifics. There could be potentially
      disastrous results if the details got out. That's why I was so
      worried about the Veritaserum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What kind of results? Like all students being chosen as
      Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well...that's a possibility, but not all that likely. What I'm
      worried about is...it's hard to explain without giving away what
      the problem is. If I were to try to explain it, it'd probably be
      something like 'around 100 extra deaths per year' or something, and
      that would-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The reaction was immediate. Director Bones straightened, her
      face became much more serious and her grip tightened on her wand.
      Dumbledore, in contrast, had a look of horror on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, this is exactly the sort of situation I wanted to avoid.
      I know it <em class="calibre8">sounds</em> bad, but it's not nearly as big a deal as
      it sounds. It's…" Harry knew he couldn't explain what it was like
      to create an intelligence for just long enough to have a
      conversation with it, "It's like with livestock. They have some
      intelligence and they feel pain and sadness like the rest of us,
      but they don't have the same level of intelligence and wouldn't be
      able to live in the first place if it weren't for us. So if someone
      were to attack your cows, do you have cows in magical Britain?
      Sorry, getting off track. If someone were to attack 100 of your
      cows per year, you would be upset, but it wouldn't be as bad as if
      you were losing humans."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Director Bones and Dumbledore seemed to relax somewhat, although
      not completely. "Albus, is there any chance the boy could be an
      Occlumens of some sort?" Director Bones asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore shook his head, "He learned about magic at the same
      time as any other student raised in a muggle home, and he got his
      schoolbooks considerably later than most of them. All of his
      interactions with magic have been monitored by Minerva, and he has
      been monitored before then in case of attacks by Death Eaters. He
      hasn't even heard of Occlumency until today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it possible someone's polyjuiced as him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen to yourself, Amelia. You sound like Alastor. Harry has
      already done extraordinary things, even as a child. Who else would
      be able to manipulate the Sorting Hat but the Boy Who Lived?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was starting to feel a bit left out of this conversation.
      He supposed it was to be expected, he was only one part of the
      world that was affected by his Sorting. On the plus side, it
      finally gave him a chance to organise his thoughts. The Sorting had
      turned into a huge fiasco, and it had started off as a fiasco
      already. He didn't know what he expected, asking the Sorting Hat to
      sort him into House "Headmaster".</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Maybe this can be a good lesson,</em> he thought to himself,
      <em class="calibre8">actions have consequences, and the whole world is affected by
      those consequences. Really, I should have learned this after the
      Incident at the Science Fair.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Apparently he would never live that down, not even in his own
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt he had never really understood that there was a whole
      world out there, at least not on a gut level. He had never really
      seen the outside world respond to anything before. He tried to be
      conscious about how people would be affected by his actions, but
      not really how they responded. From now on, he could be more
      careful before making major decisions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Is it too early to award points to the anti-Dark-Lord-Harry
      program?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-can afford the expense for the purposes of national security."
      Director Bones said with finality, tapping some kind of a mirror
      she had taken out during her argument with Dumbledore. "Axe, I want
      you to get Thief's Downfall from storage and bring it to Hogwarts.
      Vault 271, password Steel, Thorn, Wind." She turned back to
      Dumbledore, "You're going to have to let my auror through the wards
      when he arrives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wait, then how did she get in without Dumbledore's
      knowledge?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Dumbledore said, "if it is necessary for you to
      feel at ease, and Harry is ok with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Director Bones then turned back to Harry, "Now then, I still
      have a number of questions to ask you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long will the Vertiaserum last?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It should last a few more minutes, and we can replace it if
      necessary. Now, do you have any other charms on you? The Thief's
      Downfall will to most charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, it looked like it was going to be a longer day
      than he thought.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
