<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Rational Response - A Rational Response, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Rational Response"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Sixty seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep, shuddering breath. Let it out. Calm born of
      desperation managed to gift him with some semblance of the icy calm
      of his Dark Side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Voldemort was going to kill him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't want to die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had a wand he couldn't even raise without being killed. He
      was naked save for his glasses. Surrounded by thirty-six Death
      Eaters and Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't have any instant escape options. His mind flashed to
      Fawkes and how the Phoenix had rejected him after his use of the
      Killing Curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fighting his way out was so astronomically improbable that it
      was best to forgo the option completely. No playing the action
      hero.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Among the little skills he had in magic that Voldemort didn't
      have was incomplete transfiguration, which was silent. Perhaps an
      instant cylinder of air under his feet, dropping him in, which
      would then close up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His mind flashed back to the eraser, and the exhaustion that
      came with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, it cost to much effort to do anything effective. Any attempt
      would leave him dead on his feet and in a hole of air that would
      kill him once it reverted. Not that he honestly believed he could
      transform that much within a few seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No to the science hero, also.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could only talk in Parseltongue, which meant the only person
      he could convince to help him was Voldemort. Yeah, right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Among the three options, two led to instant death at the hands
      of the Death Eaters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Guile hero it was then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirty seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Voldemort was going to kill him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't want to die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had his mind. He didn't want to die. To defeat Voldemort, he
      would need time. He would need to live. What was the best way to
      use what he had to get the other?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What did he know about Voldemort? No. The one standing across
      from him admitted to him that even Voldemort was just a mask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were speaking Parseltongue. Only the two of them could
      understand each other. What did he know about Tom Riddle?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ten seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wanted to survive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wanted the world to live.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wanted power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was studying rationality thanks to Harry - don't think about
      that - but wasn't a master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Five seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was a wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom would expect kindness in plots now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't want to be redeemed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom couldn't use magic on Harry directly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom would do anything to live.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom - STOP THAT'S IT!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You shouldn't kill me, and you shouldn't maim me,</em>"
      Harry began in Parseltongue. "<em class="calibre7">It is not in your best interest
      to do so.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Ah</em>," Volde- Tom raised an eyebrow that didn't exist.
      The voice, even in Parseltongue, was high, cold, mocking. "<em class="calibre7">So
      explain how it is in my best interest to let you live, in detail,
      and why you wouldn't try to work against me.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry trembled, then stilled. Make it seem like he has the upper
      hand, he thought frantically. "<em class="calibre7">I could swear another oath. I
      could submit. I do remember your lessons. I could lose with
      grace.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not a single lie, but nothing promised. Sweat broke out on his
      forehead, his wand arm twitched. His nose twitched and he
      consciously reminded himself that to scratch it would cost his
      life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I taught you to pretend to lose,</em>" Tom corrected
      coldly, "<em class="calibre7">And I have yet to hear a reason as to why you are more
      useful to me alive than dead, especially when the prophecy states
      you could destroy the world.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grasped at that, jerking his body minutely as though
      shocked, "<em class="calibre7">But I wouldn't!</em>" He hissed, "<em class="calibre7">How am I even
      supposed to know what you think I will do if I don't know the
      prophecy?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You don't,</em>" Tom hissed back, "<em class="calibre7">And that is the
      point. Do not think to ask for the prophecy either, boy. I will not
      give it to you.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">But what if the prophecy is already in motion,</em>" Harry
      insisted, "<em class="calibre7">what if I have already provided all that is needed
      for it to happen? You saw my influence on those in Hogwarts.
      Already, Draco Malfoy is not the racist Pureblood he was before. So
      many have already listened to what I've told them. What if my
      influence was to inspire another to commit what you feared would
      happen?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom twitched. Smiled that snake grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">So I will monitor those students,</em>" He hissed, "<em class="calibre7">And
      if any come close to the kind of power that could destroy the
      world, I will prevent them.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The unspoken message caused a shiver to run through Harry, and
      he hoped that he hadn't inadvertently killed the entire student
      population.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">All of them,</em>" Harry asked, "<em class="calibre7">and do you really
      think that none will slip through the cracks? Do you really think a
      prophecy is so easily avoided?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom's eyes narrowed and flashed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">...I think you are stalling,</em>" Tom's anger was
      palpable, and the air hummed. "<em class="calibre7">At the beginning of the
      conversation, you made the statement that it was in my best
      interest to spare you, and that you wouldn't deliberately attempt
      to destroy the world. Everything else you said was either
      conditional, a question, or hypothetical. Answer honestly right
      now, or I will kill you, in either yes or no. Do you have some form
      of magic or knowledge that I do not have?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Yes</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Are there any beyond your skills I've already mentioned,
      your muggle knowledge, and your partial transfiguration skill that
      you used in Azkaban?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom glared at the boy. "<em class="calibre7">Now, why did you say it was in my
      best interest to not kill you? Explain your reasoning. Directly, or
      I shall kill you immediately.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed harshly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I was stalling. But it isn't in your best interest to kill
      me. Despite what you say, your soul is still inside me. I am your
      horcrux, and to kill me would remove an instrument of your
      immortality. You desire to live, I am unlikely to ever succeed at
      killing you, therefore it would be in your best interest to not
      kill me. There have been cases of pain and blood loss causing
      death, so it wouldn't be in you best interest to maim me
      either.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath. He was sweating my the gallon now. His
      hand was shaking visibly, and he was having trouble staying on his
      feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He would only have the one shot. He'd have to make it count.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd managed to continue the conversation by nearly three
      minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In those three minutes he'd managed to slowly transfigure <em class="calibre7">a
      lot</em> of air from the stone underneath them. Wand facing down,
      naturally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In those three minutes, the heavily breathing mass of Death
      Eaters had managed to use up a lot of oxygen in the cramped
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Over on the altar, the jewel on his ring exploded as it reverted
      to the enormous rock. The moment came.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In every living being, there is an instinctual response towards
      loud concussive sounds, especially in moments of high tension. That
      is, to turn and look for it. In that one moment that Harry had, he
      released the magic in the room that kept all the transfigured
      oxygen stable with a deft, albeit shaking twist of the wrist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, a lot of the oxygen in the Death Eaters' bloodstreams
      were not. They remained standing, and Harry <em class="calibre7">moved</em>. He
      doubted that Tom didn't have a bubblehead charm already on him. Too
      smart to not have one. Harry himself had one as an enchantment on
      his glasses that he had gotten one of the older students to do for
      him for a war game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, Voldemort had admitted himself that the Death Eaters
      were wearing nothing but transfigured objects to act as masks and
      robes. And the enchantments on the originals had long since worn
      out. And while Harry might have expected Tom to bluff him over that
      like he did moments prior, he doubted that the Death Eaters were
      operating on the same level.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirty-six Death Eaters dropped dead instantly as the oxygen in
      their brains turned to calcium, most likely causing massive
      hemorrhages. Voldemort had already raised his own gun towards
      Harry, but Harry had taken the moment of distraction to target the
      gun as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The transfiguration was nothing complicated, just enough to ruin
      and warp the important parts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom screamed in frustration, going for his wand. Harry was
      already running towards his own bag on the altar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right before he managed to grab the bag, it was violently
      summoned from him. He didn't dare try to reclaim it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The clothes he left, along with the rock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was running on adrenaline now. He hadn't felt this exhausted
      since Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was nearly to the door when a kick from behind knocked him
      over. Before he knew what was happening, he was dangling from the
      air, Voldemort's terrifying visage above him, and slowly
      suffocating as he was strangled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You-" Tom's grip tightened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You made a mistake Tom, minutes ago.</em>" Harry hissed out
      quickly. A moment of wounded pride caused the grip to slacken.
      Harry continued before he lost his chance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You imbued Hermione with Unicorn blood, and then you
      spilled it.</em>" The grip was loosening now. Harry continued
      frantically, trying to keep talking, trying to gain more time,
      "<em class="calibre7">Quirrel's body may have been cursed, but your new one wasn't.
      You're cursed now, just as you were in the hospital wing, and no
      Unicorns in sight. Your followers are dead now-</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry dropped to the ground, the grip losing hold entirely. He
      collapsed. The stress and heavy use of transfiguration left him
      with nothing. He looked over to the body of Tom Riddle and
      recoiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twisted face that looked so snakelike was melting. Whatever
      dark rituals used to sustain the Dark Lord's body and that of his
      previous host were absent, and the curse of spilled Unicorn's blood
      was catching up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not over," Tom muttered, pulling out the Philosopher's
      Stone. "It-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Accio." Harry muttered, the weakened spell barely managed to
      pull the stone from the Dark Lord's trembling fingers. Sent
      tumbling and skittering across the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry expected some sort of parting curse, or some other
      climatic one-liner that most villains gave at the end when
      bested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, with a quiet cough, the body fell away, reverting to a
      puddle of melted skin, blood, and bones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">He'll be back</em>, Harry thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And didn't that make the victory bittersweet?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked over towards Hermione, and then over to the fallen
      Death Eaters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Draco's going to murder me</em>, Harry sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he passed out.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: This was originally made in response to the challenge on
      the last chapter of Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality. I
      know that this isn't exactly following the spirit of the challenge
      that Yudkowsky issued. He wanted the readers to come up with some
      way for Harry to talk himself out of his situation with nearly no
      resources. In other words, to recreate the AI in the Box Challenge
      that he performed so long ago. I, however, am of the mind that
      while Harry's situation is technically hopeless, that Yudkowsky
      also left a lot of minor Chekhov's Guns lying around. The stone,
      the partial transfiguration skill, the numerous hints from
      instructors that making a gas was dangerous, and the number of
      skills that Harry picked up from the war games. Also, there were
      the Death Eater's own lack of genre savvy and Voldemort giving
      Hermione unicorn blood and then cutting her, thereby cursing
      himself, which would have greater effect since his own new body
      lacks all the dark ritual boosts his others would have (also the
      fact that he never drank any blood in this body, which I guess
      would go a long way to mitigating these effects). And don't forget
      Harry's transfiguration, which is silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say that there were a lot of random bits of plot
      devices lying around, and I decided to have Harry use as much of
      them as he could, all the while technically telling the truth. The
      fact that I ended the story with Voldemort's fate mirroring that in
      the first book is merely some ironic original flavor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the end, I went with Harry getting some luck, Voldemort
      falling to his own vice of pride, and the end result of what
      happens when giving the characters some seriously broken powers. I
      suppose that everyone was just Too Clever For Their Own Good.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
