<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility - Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility Chapter 3: The Art of Negotiation, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: The Art of Negotiation</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The first thing Amelia Bones actually ordered done was have the
      Wizengamot chambers sealed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had taken her almost half an hour to issue that order, by
      which time several observers of the day's proceedings had stumbled
      out the doors. For all that the order was slow in coming, she
      wasn't shy about exercising her authority to contain the disaster.
      The two aurors present had been sent with all due haste to secure
      reinforcements, post guards at the doors, and retrieve the escaped
      observers by time turner shortly after their departure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The remaining observers were in various states of shock, easily
      quarantined for the moment. That left the survivors of the
      Wizengamot itself, who were too busy pestering her to go stumbling
      through floo transports or manhandling owls to disseminate the
      day's events. The most important thing, at this point, was keeping
      everyone else out. Some news was simply too dangerous to escape
      into the wild.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something would of course have to be done about the bodies
      eventually, but magic was efficacious in the short term and
      involved bringing no one else into the chambers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia idly wondered just how many memory charms might be
      necessary when all was said and done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Director Bones." Dumbledore startled her from behind. She
      turned. "Minerva and I really need to be getting back to Hogwart's
      soon. If there's anything we can do to help, please, let us know."
      He was leaning on Professor McGonagall for support.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus, I could really use your input in this situation." Of all
      the times the old meddler could choose to not stick his nose
      in...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's an eleven-year-old boy, Amelia. And for all that he has
      acted improbably and harshly, I cannot believe he has gone to
      darkness yet. I might suggest talking to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't even know what to say!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have a niece about his age."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My niece does not command dementors to kill people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm... I take your point. And yet, he is still only eleven. He
      only thinks he understands what it is to fight a war. Help him
      understand just what he has done this day." Suddenly then
      Dumbledore pulled close to her, pulled her ear to his mouth and
      whispered into it. "I fear the bigger difficulty will be finding a
      way out of this dilemma that does not alienate Harry completely. We
      need him, Amelia. We need him to defeat Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He released her then, and she quickly schooled her face to show
      no shock. Dumbledore's eyes met hers, measuring her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll do what I can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Amelia, there are children at Hogwarts affected by the
      tragic events here today, it would be far better were they to hear
      from us first. Do let me know what should be said, I have full
      faith in your discretion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, dismissing him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Director Bones, I fear I must take my leave as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Malfoy, surely as someone injured in recent events you
      have some stake in the outcome."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I might do the sensible thing and ask Master Potter what
      he wants, and <em class="calibre8">give it to him</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius!" said a startled Madam Longbottom, "Unpleasant yes, but
      I never figured you for a coward!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When faced with an obviously superior opponent, discretion is
      frequently the better part of valor," Lucius snarled at her. "Good
      day Director Bones, Madam, Lords and Ladies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what, might I ask, is so pressing that you would run out on
      this meeting?" Amelia asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My son needs me," Lord Malfoy muttered. More strongly he
      continued, "And I imagine anything I propose would receive rather
      scant support in present company. Good day." With that he turned on
      his heel and headed for the door, pausing briefly here and there
      when he happened across the bodies of those who had been close
      allies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The survivors of the 208th Wizengamot looked at each other
      solemnly. If Amelia were a betting woman, she'd wager Lucius was
      quite wrong in his prediction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is Lord Malfoy right? Do we just roll over and give Potter what
      he wants?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Director Bones, how would the aurors fare if they simply tried
      to apprehend him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She tried to imagine it. Her aurors descending into the center
      of Azkaban, depending on their Patronuses to protect them from the
      dementors within. She could see it so clearly. The patronuses
      popping out of existence. The dementors swarming her brave aurors.
      You can't duel a dementor. She shuddered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every face was turned to her expectantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I might note that both Lucius Malfoy and Albus Dumbledore have
      for once given us surprisingly similar advice," Amelia found
      herself saying. "Maybe we should talk to Master Potter and see if
      we can't find a way out of this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked over the remaining members of the Wizengamot slowly,
      gauging their expressions. It wasn't a real solution, it was a
      fishing expedition. There would be discussion yet. But at least now
      there was something concrete to discuss.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">She stared in wonder at her Patronus, her glowing human
      projection of emotion and will. Last week she would have been
      elated, indeed, there was an electric feeling of joy at her
      accomplishment. But everything was burdened with history and
      regret, making her mood more marked by a sardonic gravity than
      anything else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione?" She realized he had been saying her name for about
      five minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now what Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I don't know how much time we have, this is... um... sort
      of taking longer than I planned already, and they could have been
      here almost as fast as we were, so..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, its not enough to decide dementors are evil and say that.
      A Patronus feeds off emotion, not reason... Um..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spit it out Mr. Potter." Her voice was unnecessarily sharp, but
      her patience was rapidly waning, and she was cold and wet and just
      remembering that she could have cast a warming charm except now her
      wand was maintaining her Patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I certainly hope so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not talking about... look. About 100 yards that way," he
      motioned with his free right hand, "is one of the walls of Azkaban.
      At the end of that wall is a tower. And in that tower, more than
      half way up, is a woman."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's voice had taken on a seriousness almost ridiculous in
      his unbroken high pitch. But Hermione wasn't dwelling on the tone,
      it was the message itself that was surreal and frightening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That woman has been sentenced to relive her crimes over and
      over again, all while under the influence of the dementors. And she
      sits in her cell repeating to herself <em class="calibre8">No, I didn't mean it,
      please don't die!</em> over and over again. And her voice is
      strong, she hasn't been here in Azkaban very long, the dementors
      haven't totally broken her spirit yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, why? What...?" she cried in panic and pain. Why was he
      telling her these things? It was horrible. She had only spent hours
      with a dementor, shielded by patronuses, and still she had felt
      sick. Inside her a flame, kindled when she had cast her patronus,
      ignited, burning with righteous indignation. Raw emotion poured
      down and out through her arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She can't even remember the names of her children anymore,"
      Harry continued, over her protests. "Maybe one year here, and her
      own children are lost to her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her Patronus grew then, and wonder mixed with horror as the
      light became brilliant, shifting from sapphire to white.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And she's not even near the bottom. She's more than halfway up.
      There are cells all the way to the very bottom of the tower, right
      next to the dementors." Harry spit out the last sentence with
      venom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could see that his Patronus was undergoing a similar
      transformation to hers. He, too, was appalled by Azkaban. And as
      her Patronus waxed she could feel them, the prisoners of Azkaban,
      as the protective light spilled over them and shielded them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her dams broke and the silver light poured out from her as a
      river, wild and rapid, and she was almost emptied. But suddenly
      Fawkes was there, on her shoulder, cooing into her ear, and his
      warmth flooded into her and sustained her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter took her free hand in his then. He looked at her,
      and she could see the pain in his eyes. Though no more words were
      spoken, on this they were agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Had anyone else been looking into the center of Azkaban just
      then, they would have seen one shining hominid patronus take the
      other's hand, standing together against the darkness of
      Azkaban.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe Auror Li would have contacted Director Bones earlier if he
      understood the significance of his Patronus's bizarre fixed
      attention towards the center of Azkaban. But being stationed near
      dementors for long periods of time made the Patronus just another
      common everyday thing that got taken for granted. It protected you
      from dementors, that was what it did. It wasn't some sort of early
      warning system for unforeseen events. But so it was that Li's
      Patronus, and all the Patronuses of the other aurors in Azkaban,
      for that matter, had their attention fixed inward almost since
      Harry Potter had arrived. No one noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, when the window into the center suddenly lit up
      brighter than the noonday sun with silvery light, the aurors took
      notice. Li immediately contacted the DMLE home office, but by then
      it was too late.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the light went out shortly thereafter, there wasn't a
      dementor left in Azkaban.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Whatever glowing light had suffused Azkaban was gone by the time
      Amelia Bones and entourage descended into its center, although the
      rain persisted as if nothing had changed. As the head of the DMLE
      and a member of the Wizengamot, she had volunteered to go as the
      body's sole representative, but certain others had insisted on
      coming as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Augusta Longbottom was not graceful on a broomstick, but she
      managed all the way down, ridiculous hat and all. Amelia had little
      idea why she had insisted on coming, but the old woman was
      cantankerous and unpredictable, and Amelia recalled she had a
      grandson in Harry Potter's class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodorus Deas had also elected to accompany them, handling his
      broomstick with far more dexterity than Madam Longbottom. Mister
      Deas had been involved in the import and export of magical items
      and creatures, and little involved in politics, until near the end
      of the Wizarding War. When his wife was killed in the crossfire he
      had used his considerable economic influence to insert himself into
      the political life of Magical Britain, where he had been solidly
      against accomodation with Voldemort. He mostly drew his support
      from wizards engaged in businesses, and generally voted for
      measures that fostered peace and stability as he saw it. In the
      post-Wizarding War era, that generally meant siding with the likes
      of Dumbledore. If she couldn't fathom Augusta's presence, then
      Theodorus's insistence on accompanying them was as opaque as the
      worst riddle-twaddle from a Ravenclaw auror recruit. (And that was
      something she'd given up trying to figure out a decade ago).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were flanked by four aurors. These aurors had patronuses
      out, because Amelia was not about to get eaten by dementors through
      negligence. They also had silence charms cast around their heads,
      and cotton stuffed in their ears in case the charms failed – its
      not like she was going to make it easy for Potter if this became
      ugly. That it was Azkaban made other precautions particularly tough
      to implement, because they couldn't apparate, portkey, or time
      turner within a mile in any direction. She wondered if that was
      intentional on Potter's part – not that he should have had any way
      of even knowing those things – but she was beginning to think that
      more than a healthy dose of paranoia was warranted at this
      point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And if he did know those things, well, the location might be a
      defensive precaution on his part. Azkaban's future could not touch
      its past, which means nobody aware that Potter had come here could
      arrive before he did to ambush him. Given the events of the day
      thus far, Amelia was finding it surprisingly wise to assume that
      Potter, for all his youth, thought like Mad-Eye himself. The very
      idea was frightening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The last of her precautions were a full twenty aurors on
      broomsticks well above Azkaban itself, and definitely outside of
      earshot, magically enhanced or not, of Potter. If necessary, they
      would do what had to be done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The group landed without incident at the foot of the south wall,
      just below the auror station above. The patronus escort fanned out,
      covering Amelia and the two Wizengamot members from all sides as
      they proceeded northwards. Both Theodorus and Augusta were, like
      Amelia, keeping their hands well away from their wands, as
      instructed. This was to be a peaceful conversation if possible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But you could tell something was wrong, almost immediately. Even
      with the patronuses, she should have felt something from the
      dementors. Where had Potter sent them?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Near the center she thought she saw figures ahead, vaguely
      outlined in the darkness and drizzle. Silently she signaled the
      more forward aurors to fall back a little, and strode calmly
      forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter? We just want to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pushed forward through the gloom until the figures resolved
      themselves, and the stopped, confused. Harry was sitting
      crosslegged in the muck, the Granger girl passed out with her head
      on his lap. A phoenix – Fawkes? – perched on Granger's arm. Potter
      looked up at her when she stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well hullo, I was wondering when you'd arrive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She couldn't say anything, it was too incongruous. Augusta and
      Theodorus came up beside her on either side and similarly
      stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Adults have a strange way of wanting to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahem. Mister Potter," Madam Longbottom began, then stopped. She
      looked sideways at Amelia.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia took a deep breath. "Mister Potter, as the duly appointed
      representatives of what's left of the Wizengamot, we've come to ask
      you what happens now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I surrender, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia blinked. Then she blinked again. "You... wait...
      what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I surrender. There are conditions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia gave up. She wasn't paranoid enough for this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Theodorus who managed to ask. "What conditions would
      those be, Mister Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First, medical treatment for Miss Granger. Second, Miss Granger
      is released; no debts, no sentence, nothing. She goes back to
      Hogwarts or to some other suitable institution as she chooses.
      Third, well, I suppose we'll have to talk about the nature of my
      imprisonment, but that can probably wait for the time being."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three representatives of the Wizengamot exchanged
      glances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe we can continue this discussion somewhere other than in a
      freezing drizzle on an island of ooze that barely qualifies as
      land? Don't you want to take me into custody?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia shrugged her shoulders and was about to issue orders when
      Madam Longbottom blurted out, "But Mister Potter, what happened to
      the dementors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't think she'd be able to erase the memory of his face,
      his eleven-year-old boy face, doing a fair impression of innocent
      youth, turning towards Madam Longbottom and saying sweetly "I ate
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia sputtered something unintelligible into her mirror
      instead of the command she intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry. I seem to have forgotten to snap my fingers."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
