<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility - Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility Chapter 5: The Dust Settles, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: The Dust Settles</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the old wizard in the wan light that splashed
      through the doorway from the outer room. He was suddenly very
      tired. Had been hoping, in fact, to be able to let go of his
      control at last and let the events of the last couple days become
      real to him. But then here was Dumbledore, purple hat slightly
      crumpled in his hands, keen intelligence shining from his eyes with
      reflected light, and no doubt looking for answers. Yet if Harry's
      perception hadn't failed him, the headmaster looked older. More
      worn down perhaps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would you like to talk about, Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remember a boy, not much younger than you are now, who once
      told me that he wanted everyone to live forever. But now fifty-five
      people are dead. And there was a phrase this boy used, <em class="calibre8">I notice
      that I am confused.</em> Well, so it is, I notice that <em class="calibre8">I</em>
      am confused. What happened to that boy I knew?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood there long moments, trying to compose a reasoned
      response, but all his carefully schooled control was gone, expended
      earlier. He had not the strength to summon it again. Instead he
      spoke, barely audible, "What would you have had me do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's eyes were hard. Measuring. But his voice was soft.
      "I confess, commanding a dementor to kill the people who disagree
      with you did not come to my mind as something that you might do at
      all, much less feel forced to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They were going to murder her! As surely as if they'd cast the
      killing curse themselves!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For all that she is precious to us, Harry..." the old wizard
      reached out and put his hand on Harry's forearm. "For all that she
      is precious to us, she is just one girl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." Harry shook off the hand, his voice going cold. "Do you
      have any idea how close you came to losing this war in those
      chambers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the Hermiones who make the fight worthwhile and necessary.
      Why do you think I'd defend a ministry who would simply slaughter
      them itself? If that's all that's left to lose, let Voldemort have
      it!" Harry was near tears, and he threw himself onto the bed,
      wanting nothing more than to be left alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stood, purple hat in his hands. He made no move to
      comfort. When he spoke, his voice low and sombre.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never said you should Harry. I formed the Order of the
      Phoenix, after all, because the government could not be trusted to
      fight the war itself. But there are plenty of good and decent
      people, other Hermiones, out there to fight for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made no response. He lay there and pressed his face into
      the pillow, but tears wouldn't come.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I fear is that you didn't spare a moment to think through
      the consequences to those other Hermiones. Have you endangered them
      more by your actions? When Voldemort comes openly, who will support
      you and who will oppose you? Before the lines might not have been
      drawn in black and white, but at least they had shape. Now the
      whole board is up-ended and the pieces in disarray."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wiped at unshed tears, his eyes red, and forced himself to
      sit. "Its more than there being nameless good people out there.
      Hermione – she keeps <em class="calibre8">me</em> good, Headmaster. I need her. Her
      specifically. Without her... without her I don't know whose side
      I'd be on, when it came to it. I don't think I'd take Voldemort's
      side, but then there's more than two sides, isn't there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Many more than two, and yet before they were known. While I
      might have disapproved of Lord Jugson, as deserving a man as might
      be found anywhere for the fate you determined, I knew who and what
      he was. I knew he was Lucius Malfoy's creature, and a Death Eater,
      and a blood purist. I could contemplate an action and project how
      he would react, what he might do. In but a few short years, his son
      will inherit his seat, barely more than a boy at the age of
      seventeen. His son I do not know. No, not nearly so well as I knew
      the father. Multiply that by fifty-five and the actions of the
      Wizengamot become suddenly mysterious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, the truth of what happened cannot be kept from the
      Wizengamot. The survivors were of course there. They saw. But the
      heirs of the dead – those that come after them – they will know the
      truth of what happened in their time. They will know to blame you,
      and they will feel the loss of their kin more keenly than the
      survivors feel the loss of their colleagues. What remains of the
      Wizengamot can be reasoned with today, but in just a few short
      years it will be your enemy, if you even have that long. You have
      made your road harder, that is for certain, but how hard? I cannot
      say. The full consequences can only be known in time, and time is a
      precious commodity. You have condemned us to flailing about in the
      dark while Voldemort draws ever nearer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for Hermione herself, Harry, I don't know if she will ever
      come back to you. You may have saved her, but you may also have
      alienated yourself from her forever." Dumbledore met Harry's eyes
      at the end and held them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, Headmaster. Still, she was worth it, even if she won't
      speak to me again. I need her to remind me why I fight. What to
      fight for. That she lives is enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused for a moment before continuing. "As for the
      Wizengamot – I think you overestimate their importance Headmaster.
      They were impotent before, and likely will be again. Their actions
      will be beneath notice. And if they are more incompetent about
      their business than you expected, that can only be to my
      benefit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you saw no other way to save Hermione than what you did? I
      would not make enemies needlessly, no matter how inconsequential
      you feel them to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, they had their wands virtually drawn and pointed at
      her head. I tried to find alternate solutions. I tried to talk them
      down, to get them to put their wands away. I failed. At the end of
      the day, wand, head. The only answer to force is force. And I
      couldn't defend myself upon that instant should they seek to turn
      their wands on me. My actions needed to be improbable. They needed
      to be drastic. They needed to be sudden. And they needed to disarm
      my opponent – the government of magical Britain itself – and make
      it incapable of resorting to violence again afterwards. Anything
      less would have failed, quite possibly spectacularly. Just one of
      the survivors casting a lethal or even incapacitating hex on me
      would have killed everyone with the dementor loose. That didn't
      happen only because I <em class="calibre8">was</em> sufficiently improbable,
      drastic, and sudden to make them hesitate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That doesn't mean fifty-five was the precisely right number,
      but there are limits to just how specific I could be." Harry's
      voice trailed off, but his thoughts raced on. <em class="calibre8">The people who
      were kissed got kissed because they expected to be, and everyone
      else expected them to be. I couldn't say something like 'kiss all
      the death eaters', because I don't know where the weight of opinion
      of the chamber would have placed that expectation. But people who
      voted for sending Hermione to Azkaban were an immediately
      identifiable group in the aftermath of the vote.</em> But he
      couldn't say that. Dumbledore wouldn't understand. He didn't have
      the frame of reference for the concepts involved. And besides, that
      knowledge was dangerous and exploitable. Far safer to leave it
      unvoiced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His train of thought came to a safe place to resume, and he
      continued aloud. "And their votes had made them culpable in her
      attempted murder. It made them acceptable targets for
      retribution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The headmaster sat beside him on the bed. When he spoke, he
      spoke facing away into the darkness of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am concerned, Harry, that you are unwilling to let others
      even disagree with you. The Wizengamot thought, after all, that
      they were dealing with an attempted murderer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should we treat with Voldemort then? Maybe we only have a
      disagreement." Harry's hands balled into fists.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When the Wizengamot does evil things and the good men and women
      who sit on it don't raise a finger to stop it, its no better than
      Voldemort himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The silence stretched, tense and uncertain. Harry found himself
      angry that he had to explain this. It should have been obvious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you no regrets?" Dumbledore finally asked, the kindness in
      his voice breaking the tension between them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, eyes wide and watery, held the headmaster's gaze. His
      anger abated. "I'm here, aren't I. I surrendered. Why would I be
      here if I didn't have regrets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you are still an eleven-year-old boy. You can't bottle
      this up inside you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were a hero once. Whose shoulder did you cry on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore had no response to that. They sat in silence
      for quite awhile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, Harry spoke, words said into the darkness and not to
      Dumbledore. "Maybe I'm not the hero they wanted. But I think I
      might be the hero they deserve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stared at him sadly, but there was nothing more to
      say. And then there was only Harry and the darkness.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The door of the Headmaster's office flew open with a bang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus! I've been trying to see you for the last twenty-four
      hours! What in Merlin's name ha–" Snape sputtered to a stop. The
      sound of quill on parchment carried in the brief silence.
      "Minerva?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning Severus." Minerva continued to write on the sheet
      in front of her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where is Headmaster Dumbledore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's taken a leave of absence." She looked up. "You had
      news?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort is returned! Over half the Wizengamot dies under
      mysterious circumstances! And he chooses now to take a leave of
      absence!?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The headmaster was under a lot of strain. You had–"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any idea how insane this is?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Severus, I am really quite busy this morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused. "You're using his desk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really couldn't be bothered to transfigure my own this
      morning. Now, either you have news that you wish to share, or you
      will let me get back to work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I have news." Snape composed himself. "Lucius sent no owls
      after... whatever... happened. No owls two nights ago. No owls last
      night. He had no visitors. He made no visits by floo or otherwise
      yesterday, except to the ministry. And aside from whatever ministry
      business he had during the day, he spent all his time in his study
      – alone or with Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And from this you conclude?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what to conclude. His political network was
      effectively destroyed in one day and he has done nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall looked off for a moment before returning her
      attention to the potions professor. "Thank you Severus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This doesn't worry you at all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have to review the budget for the month, there's a meeting
      with the board of governors this evening that I must attend,
      disciplinary reports for several students from yesterday that I was
      unable to get to then which need reviewing, a detained defense
      professor that I will need to retrieve from the ministry, and
      sometime today I need to find time to grade thirty-five third year
      transmutation essays. And that's not even counting students who
      might need to see me today. I don't have time to be worried. Now,
      if that was all...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus stood there for a moment, pursing his lips. "The
      Headmaster's pet disaster, what role did he really play in all
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye Severus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape turned to go with a snarl of frustration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, and Severus, while I'm acting Headmistress, I trust we will
      have the same arrangement you and Albus had?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The potion master didn't answer as he strode from the room, the
      door closing behind him on its own.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione hated keeping secrets. They gnawed at you, begging to
      escape into the open air. She especially hated secrets which forced
      her to lie to people. Which hadn't stopped her from acquiring
      several, although thankfully only one of them was one that anyone
      was likely to ask about. Of course, everyone wanted to ask, a fate
      she was saved from only because Professor McGonagall had, upon
      returning her to Ravenclaw Tower last night, been rather clear that
      anyone pestering Hermione about the last couple days would find
      themselves in an appointment with the Headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall hadn't actually said much to her last night. But
      she'd been abundantly clear that if anyone <em class="calibre8">did</em> ask,
      Hermione would tell them that the dementor had escaped and gone on
      a rampage. She would not mention Harry's involvement. She would
      absolutely not mention Azkaban. She would not under any
      circumstances explain the riddle of the dementors to her
      classmates. And if anyone asked about the phoenix on her shoulder,
      she would tell them that was between her and the Headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were only two other things that McGonagall had said to her
      last night. She'd of course asked if Hermione was alright, because
      that's the kind of person Professor McGonagall was. And McGonagall
      had requested she go to the Headmaster's office after
      breakfast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inevitably this meant that breakfast was an uncomfortable affair
      surrounded by inquisitive Ravenclaws who desperately wanted to ask
      but sat silent because they didn't want to end up in the
      Headmaster's office. Hermione almost wished they would ask, it
      would have been better than the uncomfortable silence. Maybe. She'd
      still have to lie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And those were only her peers who were willing to sit close
      enough to her that they could have asked. Reactions to her arrest
      by aurors were apparently complicated, not that anyone was actually
      talking to her – as much as some of them apparently wanted to be –
      to even broach the subject. But in addition to the silence of
      unasked questions around her there were the dirty stares from
      farther down the table. And from the other tables, excepting only
      Gryffindor. They'd given her a standing ovation when she walked
      into breakfast, and she really wasn't sure how she should feel
      about that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced up at the head table. McGonagall was absent,
      which wasn't terribly surprising given Dumbledore's parting words.
      Snape was also, thankfully, absent, as was Quirrel. Flitwick's
      attention was sternly on his house's table, although he did spare a
      smile for her when he noticed her looking. Sprout had a concerned
      expression on her face, her eyes flitting around the hall, frowning
      as she looked from table to table. And Trelawney was oblivious, as
      usual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was glad that Fawkes had been willing to stay in her room,
      at least she thought he'd stay in her room. If anything, the
      silence and the stares would have been that much weirder with a
      phoenix on her shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyes wandered to the Slytherin table. Draco was not there.
      Hadn't been there when she came to breakfast. Draco, who was always
      there just when food arrived. Maybe he hadn't gotten back yet? She
      looked away; the half of Slytherin that wasn't staring daggers at
      her was studiously pretending she didn't exist. He was alright,
      wasn't he? She wasn't sure she'd be okay if he wasn't alright, even
      if she did choose to believe Harry that she hadn't done anything.
      No, that way lay madness. She had to believe Harry that she hadn't
      actually done it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione caught herself pushing food around her plate instead of
      eating. She put her fork down. No reason to delay this any longer.
      She felt eyes track her as she stood up from the table, turned, and
      walked towards the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just before she reached the sanctuary of the doorway, however,
      there was Draco. Uncharacteristically late for breakfast, but there
      all the same. Her eyes went wide and she inhaled sharply. She
      thought she saw Draco flinch away from her, afraid, but then he
      schooled his expression, turning his nose up at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger," he sneered. Dismissive. Crabbe and Goyle glared
      at her over Draco's shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione couldn't answer, not there in front of the other
      students. She closed her eyes and turned her head away, towards the
      wall. She felt the air shift as they walked past her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," she whispered into the wall, but there was no one
      still near enough to hear.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione found herself before the solid oak door to the
      headmaster's office. The gargoyle had been waiting for her and
      stepped aside without any prompting. The spiral stairs hadn't taken
      nearly long enough. So here she was, standing on the threshold with
      some trepidation, and sorely tempted to go back down without
      entering. Maybe just tempted. Its not like Dumbledore was going to
      be there. It would probably be Professor McGonagall, which meant no
      crazy old wizard playing mind games with her, even if the crazy was
      only for pretend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She realized this was the first time she'd come to this office
      by herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione raised her hand to knock, but before she could lay
      knuckles to wood it swung open, leaving her caught with her hand
      raised and her mouth open in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do come in Miss Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic." McGonagall smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that doesn't... That's not an answer!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am glad to see you're feeling better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione supposed flustered was better than feeling guilty and
      weird and stared at. A chair was positioned before the desk, so she
      sat in it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So is there anything you want to talk about, Miss Granger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... you..." Wait, hadn't McGonagall insisted she come?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger, I understand it was a rough weekend, but you are
      only twelve. I thought you might want to talk about what
      happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione chewed her lip, trying to put words to something.
      Anything. She must have been frowning because Professor – no,
      Headmistress – McGonagall was looking at her with slightly more
      concern. "I'm not sure how I'm supposed to feel about everything. I
      mean, there's the awful memories of me actually doing that to
      Draco, and whether they're real or fabrications like Harry insists,
      I still have them. And then there's the awful... of listening to
      Harry... his willing to do just about anything... give away his
      fortune... risk his life... and listening to that with a dementor
      right behind me. And then there's the horror of the dementor loose
      and killing people. And..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger – Hermione – a twelve-year-old girl shouldn't have
      to live with such things. I can take those memories from you, if
      only for a time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Her vehemence surprised her. "I mean, there was awful and
      horror, but there was also a shining moment of light in Azkaban,
      and I don't think the one makes sense without the other. And how
      can I make up for what I did or think I did if I can't
      remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you didn't do anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did! I went to breakfast as if nothing had happened, and I
      knew! Good girls shouldn't do that! Heroes shouldn't do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, in my experience, no one is that good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well they should be! And how can I apologize to Draco if I
      can't remember what I did wrong?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... Apologize?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suspected him of plotting against me and he wasn't. He was
      helping me, or thought he was, in his own mysterious Slytherin way.
      I heard his testimony read out just like you did." Hermione paused
      for a moment. McGonagall had also witnessed the dementor's attack.
      "Headmistress... how are you doing... after..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was the usually unflappable Headmistress taken aback?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... no one has thought to ask me that. Thank you. I'm... well,
      mostly I'm disappointed in Mister Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." She was chewing on her lip again and made herself stop.
      "Is Dumbledore ever coming back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think I can give you a good answer to that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He seemed so sad when we spoke yesterday. Worn out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't realize he had been in to see you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmistress McGonagall, what's going to happen to Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Potter will not be coming back to Hogwarts, I'm afraid.
      He's agreed to be incarcerated, admittedly under rather generous
      circumstances, for awhile. I could arrange for you to visit if
      you'd like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. No, I don't think I want that..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you want to talk about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her feelings about Harry were... complicated. Yes, that was
      definitely the right word. How could she even begin to make sense
      of them?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's just so terrifying, and meddling, and unpredictable, and I
      can't believe he did that for me..." She couldn't believe she was
      actually vocalizing this, but she couldn't stop now. It just
      exploded out of her mouth. "I mean... the things he offered for my
      freedom... I don't know how to feel about that. How he was willing
      to give away all his money and possibly sacrifice his life for me.
      How is a person supposed to feel about that? And then he killed
      people. For me. Can you do that and still be good? Because there
      was so much light inside him in Azkaban. But he didn't ask. He
      never asks. And–"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And there was a thing he said, awhile ago, about how he could
      try to keep me safe and protected, but he knew how that part of his
      life would go and he was skipping it, and I honestly have no idea
      what part of his life that would have been, but I'm finding that
      sentiment deeply worrying..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean – he's not my boyfriend!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione managed to stop her mouth from working, although her
      brain hadn't managed the same. It kept running at sixty kilometers
      a second inside her head. Wait. Did McGonagall look...
      uncomfortable. The sight of the frown on McGonagall's face while
      she searched for something to say finally brought Hermione's brain
      to a halt in a train wreck of unvoiced sentiment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boys... boys are complicated." The Headmistress sighed. "No,
      not just boys, people are complicated. But it's alright if you have
      feelings for him and think he did wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But its not about feelings. Well, not about those kinds of
      feelings." Hermione managed a frown. "I'm not convinced he was
      wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione! He killed fifty-five people! He blackmailed the
      entire government!" She paused briefly before continuing, almost
      under her breath. "And I fear he broke the Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's the only person who went in there with me as his highest
      priority. The only person. No one else was willing to be
      responsible <em class="calibre8">for me</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure responsible is–"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone had some other agenda, even Dumbledore. Only Harry was
      willing to do whatever it took to save me. Which is extremely
      worrying and I really don't know how to feel about that. But I'm
      here and not being eaten by dementors, now, solely because of
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm really not sure considering Mister Potter responsible is a
      good idea..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, of course not. Harry... I'm not sure he's good enough for
      the kind of responsibility he sees himself as having."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm glad we agree."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is why I need to hurry up and learn as much as I can
      because someone has to be responsible for saving magical Britain
      from Harry." That really wasn't what she'd been intending to
      say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Miss Granger!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think anyone else can do it," she finished. "Harry
      won't listen to anyone else. Not really. Not like he'd listen to
      me. Its the only way I can keep everyone else safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one person should have to feel responsible for so much. Miss
      Granger, you're only twelve!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Later, Hermione wouldn't be able to say why she said it. She
      could see how shocked McGonagall was afterwards. Had grimaced as
      she stood up and mumbled an apology before she fled the room. But
      she'd said it all the same, the last words Godric Gryffindor had
      penned in his biography, in roughly accented latin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Non est salvatori salvator, neque defensori dominus, nec pater
      nec mater, nihil supernum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After that, well, there really wasn't anything left to add to
      the conversation. And as it was she was going to be late to
      Herbology.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Daphne, you should come down for lunch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go away Tracey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne lay sprawled on her bed, her face buried in a pillow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You already missed class this morning. And breakfast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care!" A sob escaped the girl, and she started crying
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Daphne, you have to come down sometime. Maybe you want to talk
      about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey dodged the flying pillow which suddenly launched itself
      from the bed at the end of Daphne's arm. The scion of the most
      ancient and noble house of Greengrass sat glaring at her, eyes red,
      tears running down her face, and hair in disarray.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My mother is dead. Go away and leave me be." And with that
      Daphne turned and buried her head in another pillow, muffled sobs
      escaping into the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This just wouldn't do at all. Her friend was hurting. There had
      to be something Tracey could do to fix this. Or at least make it
      better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Might as well leave her to mope," Pansy Parkinson said as
      Tracey walked back into the common room. "She clearly doesn't
      care."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What kind of Slytherin would she be if she couldn't come up with
      something, some clever plot to help fix this. A smile broke across
      her face, a sharp unfriendly smile she directed at Pansy. She'd had
      an idea. Oh yes, she'd show them. She'd show them all.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">A/Ns: First, Professor Quirrel's captivity, questioning,
      and release happens exactly as it does in HPMoR. Nothing in this
      fic will have altered that.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Second, time to address some comments. Keep in mind that
      HPMoR (up to chapter 82 and including the Quirrel scenes
      thereafter) is canon.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Simply speaking the truth about patronuses wouldn't
      cause them to pop. They'd have to believe him.<br class="calibre4"/>
      -No, simply speaking is actually quite sufficient. This is canon in
      HPMoR. Its explicitly laid out in chapter 82 (iirc) of HPMoR and
      implied in the last Humanism chapter. Remember, the patronus charm
      works by thinking about happy thoughts *instead of* death. One of
      the reasons he doesn't tell Dumbledore is because it would ruin
      Dumbledore's ability to use his patronus even if he doesn't believe
      Harry. Belief is not necessary.<br class="calibre4"/>
      -L</strong><strong class="calibre9">ets imagine a hypothetical charm that works by
      thinking about happy instead of elephants. While you're doing this,
      I tell you not to think of an elephant. You don't have to believe
      me that there is or isn't an elephant, but you're definitely
      thinking about them. Which explicitly causes the charm to fail.
      Just mentioning elephants in a context related to the charm is
      sufficient. Same deal, except replace elephants with
      death.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Harry is a transhumanist, wouldn't kill people<br class="calibre4"/>
      -This is the premise of the fic, that Harry goes with his plan of
      last resort from the trial, the one he explicitly thinks about in
      HPMoR. Think of the fic as a "What if Harry was forced to go with
      this other idea he had." Implausibility is no barrier to a <em class="calibre8">what
      if?</em> scenario. Not that it could be all that implausible if he
      <em class="calibre8">actually and seriously thought about doing it.</em> (Which he
      did...).<br class="calibre4"/>
      -Also remember that Harry is ultimately a consequentialist. (Which
      is why I personally hate Chapter 85, because its about as
      anti-rationalist as you can get - do note that in 85 he's not
      trying to justify limited killing, he's trying to justify <em class="calibre8">not
      killing at all</em> instead of limited killing). That means that
      whatever actions result in the best consequences are the ones he
      should take.<br class="calibre4"/>
      -</strong><strong class="calibre9">Now, the biggest problem with consequentialism
      is, while it is a basis for moral reasoning between two options
      given known preferences in outcomes, it doesn't provide a way to
      adjudicate which outcome is better in itself. So while Harry is
      going to be weighing the ultimate consequences to the best of his
      ability to predict, which consequences he cares more about will be
      more or less rational based on how rational his heirarchy of values
      is. And as is established canon in HPMoR, Hermione causes him to
      behave in ways that appear irrational to others. In short, she's
      really high up in his heirarchy of values <em class="calibre8">whether you think she
      should be or not.</em> To bring the point home, consider someone
      who actively prefers nuclear war breaking out to its absence. He'll
      be prefering rather different consequences than most people. While
      extreme, it does highlight the limitations of
      consequentialism.<br class="calibre4"/>
      -Now, Harry has elucidated some other consequences he thinks will
      be better or at least no worse following his actions in my fic as
      well. Just like his 'owl hand grenades to Death Eaters'
      off-the-cuff proposal, there is a brutal elegance to this solution.
      There are also obvious problems. I think Harry has a reasonable
      case to be made, especially since he was seriously outgunned and
      working on an excessively limited time frame. Which isn't to say
      he's right, but he isn't obviously wrong either.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Actually, that's the most important thing you should get
      out of that rather lengthy answer: Harry isn't necessarily right.
      No attempt has been made, not by EY and certainly not by myself, to
      hammer out an objective scheme of morality. And while HPMoR is an
      author tract in which Harry often speaks with EY's voice, that is
      not the case here. Harry is fallible, even if reasonably rational
      and of genius level intelligence. But he isn't going to be
      <em class="calibre8">obviously</em> wrong either. If you think he was obviously in
      error, check your moral assumptions and see where Harry might
      disagree with you. (And if you think you can elucidate an objective
      system of morality, please, do so and get your PhD in philosophy
      already). What he should be is consistent, and his willingness to
      go to frankly insane lengths for Hermione and his tendency to
      escalate until he wins should not be ignored when considering
      exactly how far he'd go. (As HPMoR chapter 85 does not happen in my
      fic, it is not canon here and Harry has not had those
      thoughts).</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Long author note is long. Feel free to disagree with me,
      but don't expect me to change the story concept just because you
      do.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
