<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility - Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility Chapter 7: Awkward Overtures, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: Awkward Overtures</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we back up a bit?" Susan Bones had an expression on her
      face that should have been familiar to Hermione. It said, to use
      few words, <em class="calibre8">why are my classmates totally insane?</em>, although
      the implied question mark made by the arch of her eyebrows was
      likely rhetorical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what if she's not Neville's soulmate!" Hannah interjected.
      Hermione exchanged a resigned glance with Susan over the other
      Hufflepuff's head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they figure that out, I guess. Later." Tracey pondered
      for a moment, which was a long time for Tracey. "And maybe they are
      soulmates. But I don't think they have to be soulmates for Neville
      to help distract Daphne."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought being soulmates was one of those things you just
      <em class="calibre8">knew</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you actually had a soulmate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how do you know what you know?" Wait, had Tracey just asked
      a Harry question?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Everyone</em> says so!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think any of them have had a soulmate either!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well... um... maybe we should ask someone who has one?" Two
      faces swiveled expectantly towards Hermione. "General Sunshine...
      um... when did you realize Harry was your soulmate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione fidgeted. Susan smirked in schadenfreude.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's not. Hannah, there's no such thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that just makes me feel worse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If there aren't any soulmates, then maybe Neville and Daphne
      end up together even if it isn't meant to be. And if its not meant
      to be, that means someone else <em class="calibre8">could</em> have ended up with
      Neville, if she were perhaps a little braver or..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, even if Neville gets Daphne to leave her room, there's
      nothing to say they'll even go on a date much less..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're going to get <em class="calibre8">married!</em>" Hannah grabbed
      Hermione's arm and started sobbing into her shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Err..." Hermione beseeched Susan with her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fix this." Susan had a serious expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... Hannah, no one is saying that you... that she... doesn't
      have a chance with Neville. No one was going to give us a chance to
      be heroes, remember, so we made our own chances."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think that could work?" Hannah looked up hopefully from
      Hermione's arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, in retrospect, trying to be heroes didn't go exactly the
      way I'd intended..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we were heroes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um... I'd like to think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. I know what I have to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't... ah... don't do anything I wouldn't do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah was already on her feet and moving towards the door to
      the Hufflepuff common room. There was a moment of confusion as the
      other three girls looked at each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh this is probably going to be too good to miss," Tracey said.
      She hopped to her feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have I done..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, but you're going to watch." Susan Bones offered
      her hand to Hermione, who was the last one still sitting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They hurried after Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was sitting on a couch in the Hufflepuff common room,
      working on Transfiguration homework. Hannah walked straight from
      the door toward where Neville was sitting, but he didn't notice her
      until she was standing over him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hannah?" Neville said, looking up. "Have you been crying?" He
      put his homework to the side and patted the empty spot next to
      himself on the couch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah had other ideas. She sat down across his lap, her feet
      dangling off one side, her arm near him wrapped over his shoulder
      and around his back for balance. Neville's arm came up to her back
      by automatic reflex to steady her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Hannah?" Neville managed to get out before Hannah grabbed
      his tie with her other hand, closed her eyes, and pulled his lips
      into hers. There was a moment of silence in the common room, all
      eyes on the two first years. Then the applause started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the doorway the three other former SPHEW members looked on
      dumbfounded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't think she had it in her," Tracey said to no one in
      particular from the doorway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sweet Merlin, I caused this," said Hermione next to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is something you did," Susan remarked dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry was demented at the time!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville had never actually managed to close his eyes. As Hannah
      released his tie and sat back, looking inordinately pleased with
      herself, he still hadn't managed to react. Unless you count the
      bright red blush which brought out his freckles, a blush that
      Hannah was mirroring. She brought her free hand up and ran a finger
      over the freckles on his cheek with a giggle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ms. Abbott," the voice of Professor Sprout cut across the
      common room. "My office, now." Sprout cast a disapproving sidelong
      glance at the three students in the doorway before turning in the
      direction of the Hufflepuff Head-of-House office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hannah was glowing as she got to her feet. She almost bounced in
      the direction Professor Sprout had disappeared in. The eyes of
      every young girl in the room followed her, only one pair of which
      looked on guiltily. Only after Hannah disappeared from view did the
      animated chatter of gossip start.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the couch, Neville finally found his senses and his voice.
      His confused "What?" was almost inaudible against the excited
      murmurs of near a hundred teenage girls.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So do you think we can still use Neville to cheer up
      Daphne?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not so sure... oh, I don't know anymore. Just promise me no
      stunning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're taking all the fun out of this, 'Mione."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was getting close to curfew when Hermione finally returned to
      Ravenclaw Tower. She hadn't even started the twenty inches due in
      astronomy tomorrow, which wasn't like her at all. Hopefully,
      whatever she managed before breakfast tomorrow morning wouldn't
      terribly offend Professor Sinistra.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The common room had mostly cleared out, which made it less
      uncomfortable, but she still headed directly to the sleeping room
      she shared with the other first-year Ravenclaw girls. The only
      occupant of the room was Padma Patil, brushing her hair out before
      bed. Well, her and Fawkes, who left his perch on her bed and flew
      over to her as she came in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi Fawkes, sorry I left you here all day. I could've maybe used
      you earlier, to remind me just how suspect my judgement can be."
      Fawkes nuzzled her as she stroked his back, an admittedly strange
      sensation as the flames licked her fingers but did not burn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know Hermione, we don't all hate you," Padma said from her
      bed. "You don't need to stay away from Ravenclaw until everyone is
      getting ready for bed." Her brush continued in even strokes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't just that, I was... Tracey wanted... oh Merlin, I
      think we broke Neville."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville Longbottom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't hear? Hannah kissed him in front of all of
      Hufflepuff. I figured it would be all over the school by now..."
      Hermione walked over to a bedpost and set Fawkes on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, the rumor mill seems to go through Slytherin, not exactly
      a Hufflepuff friendly house. Wait, what does that have to do with
      you and Tracey?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I might have caused Hannah to... what's this?" There was
      a letter on her pillow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I dunno, it was there when I came in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sat down with a concerned look on her face and
      carefully opened the letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">To Hermione, the first Granger</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Miss Granger,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It would seem we need to talk. Mr. Potter is important to
      both of us, and some accomodation must be reached between our
      houses to put our animosity behind us. However, it would be folly
      to be seen meeting in public. I have enclosed directions to a
      location at which our secrecy may be assured, and might suggest
      tomorrow night at the stroke of eight as a suitable time when our
      absences may not be marked as unusual. You may signal your
      agreement by being present at breakfast when the food appears. I
      strongly recommend destroying this letter after reading
      it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was signed with an ornate script <em class="calibre8">M</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, you've gone white. What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione quickly read the directions to the meeting place before
      carefully folding the letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's nothing." Her wand was suddenly in her hand. She held the
      letter away from her by a corner, as if it might bite her.
      "Incendio!" The letter burst into flames, burning down towards the
      held corner quickly. She held on until the last second, when it
      started to burn her fingers, before dropping it and stamping out
      the flames with her foot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That didn't look like nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't talk about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, don't put all your friends at arm's length, okay?
      You're starting to act like Harry, and not in a good way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's... I can't talk about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma put her brush down and gave Hermione a penetrating look.
      "Well, when you can talk about it, remember you have friends?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, and I'm sorry." Hermione threw herself down on her bed,
      still fully dressed. She hadn't actually been planning on going to
      sleep yet, just think through the events of the day and try to make
      sense of it all. But Fawkes had sensed her distress and floated
      down to perch on her upper shoulder. The song of the phoenix was
      warmth and comfort, and before she knew it she had drifted off.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was present when the food appeared the next morning.
      Actually, she was present half an hour before the food showed up.
      The mostly deserted dining hall made as reasonable a place to
      continue her hastily written astronomy homework as anywhere else,
      and she hadn't wanted to be late. She'd sat at the far end of the
      Ravenclaw table, to reduce the number of potential neighbors,
      because she really wasn't feeling social this morning. The letter
      had twisted her stomach in a knot. Breakfast itself might not be on
      the agenda, which wasn't a total loss; it meant she'd have more
      time to try to finish her homework.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The food hadn't yet appeared when Tracey sat down next to her,
      all energetic enthusiasm as she bumped Hermione's shoulder getting
      her legs over the bench.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey 'Mione, working on anything important?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't look up from what she was writing, although her
      concentration was spoiled. "Just trying to finish the astronomy
      homework. Someone's crazy scheming kept me distracted last
      night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't going to tell me that wasn't worth it..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't try to make a habit of breaking people, especially
      friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hannah was going to morosely crush on Neville for<em class="calibre8">ever,</em>
      and never act on it, without outside intervention. And she didn't
      look so broken on the way to Sprout's office." Tracey smiled
      foolishly. "And be honest, that was a pretty amazing kiss. I wish
      Harry was here. I might try that on him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh please, I already know what he'd say..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey made glasses with her fingers. "I'm sorry Tracey, but
      I've already fallen for Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. He'd say 'I told you no kissing.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're just worried I could steal him away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione finally looked up, frowning slightly. Tracey had this
      huge open-mouthed smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just teasing, 'Mione. But a girl can dream, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gave a hesitant smile and blushed lightly. "I suppose
      it was a nice kiss. Even if Neville had no idea what was going
      on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wonder if she practiced..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Practiced? With whom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, other girls. Haven't you ever practiced kissing with
      your friends, so you wouldn't be a bad kisser when a boy kissed
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh... no?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe Harry doesn't want to kiss you because you aren't a very
      good kisser then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? But... how could someone even know such a thing? Also, I
      don't think Harry has much basis for comparison..." Hermione
      shifted uncomfortably. This was going to be another one of those
      conversations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's entirely possible boys kiss each other to practice, too.
      Maybe you could try asking him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About kissing other boys?" That sounded like a conversation
      doomed to be embarrassing for anyone involved in it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No no no, about whether he thinks you're a good kisser or not.
      But I suppose a boy might lie about it, to spare your feelings, if
      he liked you. And you're like the only girl Harry really notices,
      so he must like you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... um... I don't know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come now, everyone else sees it. Even I see it, as much as I
      wish he'd notice me more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, its not like he's come out and said 'Hermione, I really
      like you' or anything." It was possible, she was willing to admit,
      at least to herself, that she'd like to hear him say that. Or at
      least had until recently entertained such notions. Before this past
      weekend recently. This was probably connected to the reason her
      cheeks were starting to feel warm. "And, I mean, it's not like he's
      my boyfriend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be silly, boys don't say stuff like that. Not without
      prompting. And if he's not your boyfriend then at least one of you
      is in denial."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why can't a girl and a boy just be friends and be sensible
      about the whole thing?" Not that there was anything sensible about
      a boy who killed over fifty people for you, but she couldn't even
      mention that part to Tracey. Besides, it would probably only
      strengthen the Slytherin's convictions about Harry and her romantic
      entanglement. It wasn't clear Tracey would understand why that
      <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> romantic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Boys are only thinking about one thing' my mum told me,
      although she won't tell me what it is, but I'm pretty sure it has
      to do with kissing; she looks at my father and smiles when she says
      it, even though her tone says she's warning me about something. My
      mum is a little weird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione arched one eyebrow at the babbling Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The food chose this moment to appear, which gave Hermione a
      chance to notice that the room had started to fill up several
      minutes prior, and now the multitude of conversations had blended
      into an indecipherable background hum. She managed to notice Draco
      had arrived with his usual promptness and was already sitting down
      to breakfast. Of course he didn't look in her direction, that she
      noticed anyway, but he was much better at whatever cloak-and-dagger
      game she had found herself playing than she was. Hermione really
      didn't want to let her gaze linger on the Slytherin table longer
      than she had to, but she did spare a few moments to confirm that
      Daphne had not come to breakfast, at least not yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A startled gasp and Tracey's hand gripping her upper arm alerted
      her to something going on in front of her, so she turned to follow
      Tracey's gaze to the Hufflepuff table. Hannah had wrapped her arms
      around a rather startled Neville from behind, and was currently
      saying something into his ear that was making him blush
      furiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's really too bad we can't hear what they're saying," Tracey
      commented as Neville said something that made Hannah frown. The
      normally shy Hufflepuff stormed off and sat at the other end of the
      table dramatically. A gaggle of first through fourth year
      Hufflepuff girls clustered around her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should probably talk to her..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I need to talk to Neville about Daphne. Wish me luck."
      The chaos legion theme song chose that moment to start playing in
      her head, an ominous chorus of 'Doom doom doom doom-doom-doom
      doom-doom-doom', but that might have just been Tracey humming it as
      she walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most of her own house was still avoiding her, which meant Tracey
      had been the only person sitting near her at the end of the long
      table. Hermione absent-mindedly spooned something edible into her
      mouth without noticing what it was as she turned her attention back
      to her astronomy homework. Hannah would have to wait, she had six
      inches left to write and she was running out of time. So engaged,
      she was totally surprised when Padma sat down next to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was Tracey sitting here for?" the Indian witch asked. "I
      mean, she's not making any friends in her own house hanging out
      with you, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm no good at those kind of games, so how should I know? Maybe
      there's a faction who hate Draco and are secretly applauding
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I just made that up. I have no idea why Tracey is willing
      to sit with me in public."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what was she talking to you about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um..." Hermione colored. "... boys," she finally managed,
      speaking softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooh, who does Tracey like?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a... complicated... subject." No, that didn't even begin
      to describe it. Hermione forced herself to stop thinking about her
      conversation with Tracey yesterday. That way lay madness and enough
      embarrassment to make her want to hide in her room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey chose that moment to return, sitting down across from the
      two Ravenclaws since the spot next to Hermione was now taken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville says he'll do it, but he wants to talk to you first
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, Neville will do what?" Padma asked. She looked back and
      forth between the two of them. "I thought Hannah and... and
      obviously Hermione and... what is Hermione going to do with
      Neville?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione and Neville?" Tracey snickered. "I wouldn't dare
      insult my lord Potter in such a way. No, Neville is going to help
      us get Daphne to rejoin the land of the living and homework
      suffering masses!" She finished with the back of her hand
      dramatically pressed against her forehead in a mock swoon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't remind me, I still have to write five more inches for
      astronomy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not done with your homework yet?" Padma looked at her
      like she had turned into a cat. "Are you feeling alright,
      Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ask me at the end of the week..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no time for homework, Hermione. We need to get Neville
      to Daphne right after breakfast!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But... I have class..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so do the Slytherins! You thought I was going to walk you
      and Neville through the Slytherin common room while there were
      Slytherins still in it? And they call me crazy..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't Neville also have class?" Padma asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah, but he's kinda freaked out by Hannah, apparently,
      and since classes are scheduled by house... he seemed more than
      willing to ditch at least one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was writing frantically while Tracey and Padma
      gossiped, cringing at the mess her hurried handwriting became. It
      was probably the worst essay she'd ever written, but done was
      better than not done. Finished at last, she turned to Padma.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could you turn this in for me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure Hermione. Just don't go bad girl on us and start skipping
      all your classes." Padma smiled mischeviously as she said it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione thought of how Daphne must be feeling. "Some things are
      more important than class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey stood up and leaned over the table. "I'll go tell Neville
      to meet us in the hallway outside in a few minutes," she whispered
      in Hermione's ear. "We shouldn't be seen leaving together, after
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded mutely as she put away her pen and paper. With a
      quick look around the dining hall, she let out a sigh and walked
      out with her breakfast mostly untouched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't long before Tracey turned the corner. She made a
      conspiratorial smile, but otherwise remained blissfully silent. A
      few minutes later Neville joined them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi Hermione. Look, I'm not sure this is a great idea, and I'm
      not sure what I can say, but Tracey did point out that I knew what
      it was like to lose a parent, so maybe I can help and maybe I
      can't. I'm willing to try. But I need you to promise me
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione cast an impressed glance at Tracey. "Well, I don't
      honestly know what I can promise, but I want to make this work. For
      Daphne. Because I know what she's going through is awful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just promise me you don't expect me to kiss her."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">A/N: I had originally hoped to have this posted by Feb
      14th, for obvious reasons. This failed. I was knocked-out sick for
      4 days leading up to that week, and one character did something I
      totally didn't expect which derailed me. I'm sure you can guess who
      that was. I'm still not totally happy with it, and my beta has
      expressed some larger story concerns that I can't really disagree
      with, but February is almost over, so here it is. There may be some
      alterations in the future, either with next month's update or as I
      start working on the next arc.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">The plan is still to finish this arc next month. Unless
      of course I don't, in which case it will definitely be over with
      April's update. There's several things that need to happen, but I'm
      optimistic it will all happen in March.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">The next arc will involve some Harry, and also more
      thinking big about what's going on in Magical Britain. (This of
      course makes me increasingly anxious about what EY's actual plans
      are... Bridge to be burned with radioactive fire when I get
      there.)</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
