<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 11: Asimov's One and Half Laws Part I, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Asimov's One and Half Laws Part I</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Later that night:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We are using him for our practice?" Hermione asked in a voice
      that almost rose to a shriek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Hermione, I know you might have problem with this. So I
      thought that let's clear both our positions on the matter in his
      presence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I believe that whoever designed them is extremely evil. But now
      they have been designed that way I don't think there is much we can
      do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So if you have problem with us using Dobby for practice, you
      must tell what can we do about him." Harry calmly replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You really believe that his condition can't be changed?"
      Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, it's like they have been hardwired to follow the
      orders. What do you think you are going to do now?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Give him a Godel-esque command 'I order you not to follow
      orders?'" Harry said and then stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was like a sudden thought wiped out every other reality for
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Actually it's a rather good idea, don't you think. I'll try it
      right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop" Hermione's voice was now an actual shriek. " You are
      giving him an 'order' Harry, not a 'command', its not that
      innocent, he is not a computer program. And even a computer program
      would crash on that one. What do you want to do to Dobby, drive him
      insane?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax. I wasn't directly going to give him Godel command. I
      would have tried other things first. And even then I would have
      modified the final command to " I order you to not follow any
      further orders until they are in your interest", or something
      similar. That won't crash a program, would it?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I repeat Harry, he is not a program." Hermione said in a calm
      and firm tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Well magical creatures are created with certain fixed rules,
      so his behaviour would be somewhat similar to a program. How about
      we start with simple commands, I mean orders" Harry corrected
      himself as he saw the look on Hermione's face "..and see how he
      reacts to it. We will come to know if he can actually be helped or
      not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took a moment to think that over. Harry took that to
      mean that she had no issue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great. I will be giving him a complex set of commands to check
      how he handles the data. So first let's check whether he follows
      order list in FIFO or LIFO." He said and then continued talking to
      Dobby " Dobby, I am going to give you two commands right now. Start
      following them only when I have given you both the commands.
      Ok?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby looked at both of them and nodded. He felt strange that
      people were asking him whether or not it was ok to give an
      order.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione meanwhile was immersed in seeing what was going on. She
      had even stopped trying to correct Harry's use of 'command' back to
      'order'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" First command is" Harry said, " that you should not follow my
      second command.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My second command is that you go and sit on that chair." Harry
      said and pointed to a chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby stood blinking. He did nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Great, now let's reverse it. I am again going to give you two
      commands. Follow them only after I have given both the
      commands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">My first command is to go sit on that chair and my second
      command is to not follow my first command. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby moved and sat on the chair that was pointed at.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then, he suddenly looked possessed as the time to fulfill
      the second order came.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Hermione shouted as both of them rushed towards him.
      Dobby was not the docile, cute-ugly creature that they were with
      just a moment ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No longer he was blinks, wide eyes and eagerness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was rage, madness and guilt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took the chair and tried to hit himself with it. Harry and
      Hermione tried to stop him from doing so , but their combined
      physical effort didn't contain Dobby's self destruction streak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby found the chair to be too light, so he rushed to a wall.
      And started to bang his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He is a head banger on rock now. Harry observed. What has
      happened to my sense of humor, he then questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop!" He shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rushed towards him to examine him "Are you ok? Are you
      hurt in anyway? Should we take you to Madam Pomfrey?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby was apparently ok. He was stopped just in time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great." Harry said, "So you follow FIFO then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, are you ready to move on with next command chain?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean by next command chain?" Hermione interrupted.
      She was determined that there wasn't going to be any more
      'command', let alone a 'chain'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are the one who wants to change him Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Do you now see what that process or even attempt would mean to
      him?" Harry asked. "And after all that I am still not sure if he
      would be able to change his hardwired instructions; the primary
      magic of a house-elf's creation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was breathing anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Change may be always painful Harry but that doesn't mean that
      the pain has to be made beyond endurance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Your approach isn't the only approach to try and change him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In fact, this is not even your approach." Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Not my approach? Then whose is it?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Professor Quirrell's."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are doing the same thing to Dobby that Prof. Quirell did to
      you in the class when he asked Derrick and others to push you
      around. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was.." Harry protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was beyond excuse." Hermione replied. " The only reason
      Professor Quirell got away with it, the only reason Dumbledore
      didn't fire him or did something worse than firing, the only reason
      that entire Ravenclaw or at least I didn't jump in to stop that
      class was because of you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because you consented. Because you were convinced it was good
      for you. Because you showed us that you could endure that
      concentrated pain of growing up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But apparently we were wrong. Apparently that pain was in deed
      beyond you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or you wouldn't have tried to do the same thing to Dobby. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Hermione. You are just being too sensitive. Look at him; Dobby
      is ok. Totally unharmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If anything at all I was just trying to do the same thing as
      you, trying to see if he could be freed of his servitude.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You are angry because you have just seen what your efforts would
      lead to." Harry calmly replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked at him, her fury now cold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby" she said to the elf ".. come with me. We are getting
      out of here." And with a regal air she walked out of the
      classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby followed Hermione out of the door. Just before the door
      closed, he looked at Harry. And then the door closed shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 'Dobby, come with me.'" Harry mimicked Hermione's words that
      echoed in that empty classroom " So when it suits her, then she is
      ok with commanding house elves."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
