<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 14: Fosbury Flop, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: Fosbury Flop</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Game day..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Good morning fellow Quidditch Crazies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Welcome to the game that is already the most remarkable
      Quidditch game ever played, even before the opening whistle has
      been blown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We have on one side the greatest team of Hogwarts. With Wood the
      super keeper, Weasley twins who together are the synonym of mayhem,
      Roger Davies with his precise aggression, Marcus Flint with his
      aggressive aggression, Cedric Diggory who has such a good record
      that some people have started suspecting that he is not a 'seeker'
      but a 'seer'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh yeah, and Derrick too, who has gone back to his original role
      of Chaser for this match. Some players have contested his inclusion
      in this team, but well he has in a way made this match possible,
      and make no mistake when it comes to Quidditch he is no pushover
      but very much a, ahem, heavyweight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other side, we have perhaps the most interesting team of
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, Draco, Hermione, Neville, Padma, Parvati and Goyle. None
      of whom have ever played a match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet, if that betting site that came on Floo Book would have
      been still active, I am willing to bet that there would have been
      plenty of folks here betting on the victory of the first year team.
      It might have been tough to even tell if they would have been the
      underdogs or the favorites.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For they are all what we honor the highest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They are all the real troublemakers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And even though I was one of those for whom the trouble was
      made, its not an issue since one prankster has got to appreciate
      the art of another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And meanwhile, its time for the game to begin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The whistle was blown. Both teams flew to take their
      positions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the stadium was stunned silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What the hell was Harry doing?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Boy!" Lee said. " It always had to be that kind of a match.
      One where the commentator gets speechless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry has started with his weirdness already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right in the middle of the field, not up in the air, but almost
      touching the ground, he is hanging on his broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upside down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" That's right baby." Harry said to himself as even the
      opposition stayed for a moment to absorb this novelty. " That's
      where the enemy's gate is. Down, Down, Down. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee continued his own commentary" The entire first year team is
      entirely unaffected, maybe they are so used to the craziness by now
      that looking at their captain hanging upside down near the ground
      looks entirely sensible. So they don't question why isn't their
      captain not flying high, seeking the snitch and generally trying to
      win the match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Talking of which, its not like the team is behaving usually
      either. Thanks to Harry's weird tactic, Hermione's very off 'take
      off' went virtually unnoticed. There is no way that she is going to
      be flying around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In fact, she and Goyle have gone and taken still position in the
      air near their own goal post.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What is going on with this team?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Their formation has two anomalies. The seeker and the beaters
      are being unorthodox." Six members of senior years heard the voice
      of Wood in their ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wood was thankful to Harry, for having taken away the commentary
      from Lee earlier. It showed a perfect way of communicating with the
      players. Ventriliquo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he knew that in this match, against the tactics of Harry,
      co-ordination and quick response would be the most crucial
      change.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Roger, Davies and Derrick, check Hermione and Goyle to see
      what they have got.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But our clear priority is Harry. We don't know what is going on
      with him and we can't afford surprises with snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I will try to figure out his plan, meanwhile Fred and George,
      start with your attack on him. Have fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three chasers began tussiling with the Draco and Patils. It
      was surprising to see them play decently. At least, it wasn't going
      to be a cake walk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Davies took the first hold of quaffle and he flew fast
      forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The field was clear, there was Neville keeping at the end and
      before that there were Goyle and Hermione just idling lazily in the
      air a little distance ahead, bouncing off a bludger between
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had taken a bludger? When? And was it legal to shuttle it
      between themselves like that?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When accelerating, something happens to the brain, Davies
      believed. As if the thinking process accelerates too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He knew that they will be attacking him with the bludger they
      seem to have kidnapped by their tactic. They must have practiced
      hard for this. Matching their hand speed and broom distance to
      ensure that bludger doesn't change direction midway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was sort of innovative to control a bludger like that. But
      all he had to do was dodge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was too simple.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Davies moved with grace and furious elegance. Goyle and Hermione
      didn't budge an inch from their spots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione pointed wand somewhere in other direction and said
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Distraction. Davies noted. Using wand was not illegal in a match
      if it wasn't being used on other players. Harry must have devised
      some distracting tactic out of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Do not look there but at the bludger, Davies reminded
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And when the shuttling bludger reached Goyle, he this time shot
      it in the direction of Davies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Good aim. Too close.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Davies swerved. He was used to such attacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bludger travelled harmlessly behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Weasleys hunted down a bludger in no time, just as the bludger
      was trying to hunt them down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And their first strike began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Bad choice Harry" George said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Being so steady. " Fred said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" And so near the ground." George completed and hit a bludger
      towards him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bludger traveled with murderous speed towards Harry. George
      hadn't held anything back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry kept watching them from his upside down position near the
      ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Entire Hogwarts in the ground was watching to see who would draw
      the first blood. And if Harry didn't move soon, he would be the
      first blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did move, his hand. And he snapped his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Davies was rushing towards the goal post as only bludgerless
      beaters remained in his way. No more obstacles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then.. something hit him hard. The bright blue sky in front
      of him suddenly discovered night. Everything blacked out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a collective gasp in the stadiums.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Unbelievable." Lee was shouting without raising his voice "
      What did we just see? What on earth was that?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George shot the bludger towards Harry. And the bludger stopped
      midway. And then turned back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It turned back on its own. As if it was scared of Harry or
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just what kind of magic is going on here?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
