<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 18: Game's Ender Part I, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18: Game's Ender Part I</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">" Draco. " Harry said, using Ventriliquo too. " We are going to
      enter phase two. No problem from Wood's side, is there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Not really" Draco replied " Except that he is a
      legilimens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry couldn't help but be surprised at this piece of
      info.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Not a trained one though. Maybe Wood doesn't even know that he
      is a legilimens, he perhaps thinks he just has an intuition for
      such things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's why he makes such an excellent keeper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" How did you figure he was a legilimens." Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dad made me do a bit of training with some legilimens, just so
      I could recognize them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I got a weird sensation when we made the first goal attempt. It
      didn't take me long to recall what that sensation meant. Once I
      knew that Wood was reading our minds and attacks, all I had to do
      was to apply a double blind. I tell both Padma and Parvati that the
      next pass is going to them and I stay at the back, either making
      the pass to one of them or going for the goal myself. Wood
      meanwhile just gets contradictory messages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It confuses the hell out of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Wood doesn't even know what his problem is." Draco
      concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent. That's some good tactic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So time for phase B it is then." Harry said and terminated the
      spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shot forward, the bludger still followed him from some
      distance. He was flying towards his own goal post .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was particularly hard since Fred and George were without
      bludgers and had decided to use themselves as human bludgers,
      flying waywardly to provide worst obstacle. If they came too close,
      then Harry would have lost the bludger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, the one point that Harry had on his side was that he
      was flying in an unexpected direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By now, everybody knew that he could throw the bludger behind
      him by just swerving. They all expected him to use it again on
      Cedric .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They didn't expect him to throw it on his own keeper.
      Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This has got to be a tough day on Madam Hooch out here." Lee's
      voice said " Harry hasn't broken any rules as yet, but he sure
      seems to be trying rather hard. Is it ok to bludger your own
      keeper?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Is that betting site still on without my knowledge, and has
      Harry made a bet against his team? For that would be the only sane
      explanation of this behaviour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wait a minute.." Lee stopped in his commentary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small but unmistakable thump went across the stadium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I was just talking about inexplicable behaviour. Now would
      somebody tell me what on Earth is Neville doing?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Its true that the defense strategy of First years has worked so
      well that the quaffle has reached Neville only once till now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But now it seems he has abandoned his keeper duties
      altogether.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He is.. I have no I idea what he is doing. If somebody knows,
      please tell me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody had the faintest idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry returned to his upside down position near the ground, but
      nobody was paying attention to him any longer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were looking at Neville who had put the bludger thrown at
      him through the goal hoop, and as the bludger boomranged back, he
      stopped it by the side of the hoop and his own broom. He then
      pushed the bludger by his hands, it traveled horizontally in the
      air and then landed with a thump on the hoop again. From the
      ground, it looked like the bludger was just repeatedly hitting the
      hoop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Hooch had to check the rules regarding that. Could a
      keeper really touch a bludger?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then bludgers were meant to throw off players. If players
      throw them off in stead, then the rule book had nothing to say
      against that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other hand, the other keeper was frantically trying to
      think things out. This was the most acute pressure Wood had ever
      felt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Cedric we need to finish this game. Don't pay attention to
      Neville's antics or what Harry did, just keep on looking for.."
      Wood suddenly stopped mid sentence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Fred, George. Cover Harry" He nearly shouted as he got hold of
      another puzzle piece.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" How? He is not even flying, just hovering upside down again."
      Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I mean cover him literally." Wood replied urgency rising in
      his voice " What we are seeing right now, all these things are just
      diverting our attention. The key to this game is still Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I finally figured out why Harry is hanging upside down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The main skill of a seeker is to seek the snitch and they
      usually search the various parts of the sky for that periodically
      by constantly moving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Potter has just eliminated that requirement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By being near the ground, and looking up, he could get a full
      view of all the sky without even moving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fact that sky is bright will only help him look out for
      snitch more easily when it shines against the clear blue
      background.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's why one time he left the position, he immediately was
      able to locate snitch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Woah." Fred cut Wood in between.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We are off." George said and the twins began a dangerously
      fast descent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Hover exactly over him. Stay as near to him as possible or it
      would still be possible for him to get a good view by slight
      movements." Wood said and cut off Ventriliquo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the next blink, Padma swept over him and scored a goal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 50-0" Lee shouted. " Super Keeper Wood has let in another
      goal. Just how many unprecedented events are we going to see in
      this game?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And as I announce this, Weasleys have again reached towards the
      ground. Are we going to see the third round of Weasleys vs. Harry
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Hi again Harry" Fred said as he and George obstructed Harry's
      view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" So you figured this out too? Most impressive." Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" What are going to do now?" George said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Can't wait to see?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Do you know about Dynamic visual acuity? I discovered that
      mine is good." Harry asked back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Its.. Never mind, I shouldn't be keeping my eyes off snitch
      even for few seconds. So this is what's going to happen. I will be
      moving randomly on my plane. Let's see if you guys can keep
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with these words, Harry disappeared sideways.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With uncanny ease, Fred and George moved too. Harry changed his
      directions again, and so did they. And then again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Third round it is." Lee said " I Can't even tell you why on
      Earth are they doing this, or who is winning out here. It seems
      like somebody has tied them up together or something, How are they
      moving so randomly at this speed? Just following them seems to give
      me a headache.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or is this headache because of that sound, that constant banging
      that Neville is doing with that hole he has got up there." Lee said
      and immediately checked around to see if McGonagall is approaching
      him angrily already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But nobody really cared about that right now, all eyes were
      looking at Neville as the thumping sound finally stopped. Goyle and
      Hermione moved from their position for the first time since the
      beginning of the game. Just to be sure that they weren't in the way
      of the falling hoop. It had finally broken after Neville had made
      the bludger constantly attack it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Hooch was checking up on the rule book with an anxious
      look on her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What happens when a keeper 'defends' himself from the bludger by
      using the goal post, keeps on doing it and eventually breaks one of
      the goal posts?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was somebody really mad enough to write that rule?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The hoop fell on the ground and bounced once to leave behind a
      cloud of dust that slowly rose up and dispersed. Madam Hooch still
      couldn't find any penalty to give to Neville. And an entire stadium
      was silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Till there was a thumping noise once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" One down." Neville said as he put the bludger through another
      hoop " Two to go."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
