<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 19: Game's Ender Part II, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19: Game's Ender Part II</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">" Davies, Flint, Derrick" Wood shouted intructions in near panic
      " forget quaffle, look for snitch"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Snitch?" Flint asked back " We can't touch the snitch, it
      would mean forfeiting the game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I am not asking to capture it. Just locate it." Wood said "
      And then inform Cedric of the whereabouts through Ventriliquo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flint hovered in his position for a while, unable to think of
      any problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Now Move!" Wood shouted. The trio dispersed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry." Draco's voice reached Harry " It seems that senior
      chasers are all seekers now. You want us too to look for snitch, it
      seems that Weasleys are giving you hard time there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are giving me tough time here." Harry said " But then I
      expected that from them. I have been practicing these random moves
      since past one month. They haven't. So in spite of their best, they
      are slowly loosing the edge, it is becoming easier to keep track of
      the snitch. In fact, 4 seekers will work further in our
      favour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. Now that you say it, I can see how." Draco replied " So
      what should we do now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Isn't it obvious, with chasers gone off chase, it's a free
      field for you. Attack, Attack and Attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Music to my ears. Over and out." Draco said and ended the
      spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Padma, Parvati and Draco flew in a circle that faced a lone
      figure of Wood now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Are you really ready for this Wood?" Draco asked " Taking a
      relentless attack from us, with no chasers on your side? It would
      be like earning limitless fouls, but even in case of a foul only
      one player gets to shoot. This is 3 times worse on you. Even on the
      best of your days you won't be able to take that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I won't be." Wood said " But this game is going to end any
      second now anyway. Are you sure your score would matter by
      then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's find out." Draco said and threw the quaffle. A three way
      continuous attack on Wood had begun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The score moved rapidly. And then there was that familiar sound
      once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another dust cloud rose. Another hoop had fallen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the same moment, Parvati scored the 120th point. The three
      way undivided attacks were really becoming too much for Wood to
      handle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wood" A voice came to him on Ventriliquo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Derrick? You found the snitch" Wood asked, a note of
      excitement coming in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" No." Derrick replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Then why are you talking with me? I am already in the middle
      of this. Get going find the snitch." Wood said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco scored the 130th point. It was almost as if the three of
      them were taking turns now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the use?" Derrick replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wood saved the next throw from Padma. He needed to concentrate,
      Derrick wasn't letting him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" What the hell you mean what is the use. Get going and search
      for the snitch." Wood shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We have already lost this game. Let's at least pay them back."
      Derrick said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Are you crazy Derrick? We have lost the game? Not really, but
      if you don't do your job, then we might." Wood said while saving
      another throw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Let's foul against them." Derrick said as if he couldn't hear
      wood at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco made the 140th point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We have got to preserve our dignity Wood. Don't you see it?
      That's what this whole match is about." Derrick said. " Wood? Can
      you hear me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took him few seconds to realize that Wood had long before cut
      the connection. He was determined to delay further score, to give
      as much time to Cedric as possible for winning the game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Cedric." An excited voice of Davies came in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric didn't need another hint, he realised that Davies had
      found the snitch. He turned in the air as if a gust had blown him
      and instantly took off. He could see in a distance, Davies pointing
      in a direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there it was, the Snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padma scores the 150th point." Lee was announcing " And with
      the third hoop nearly gone too, it seems that Senior years' victory
      chance has gone away completely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't matter." Thought Cedric as he flew full speed
      towards the snitch. " A tie would be fine. I just need to get there
      before the next goal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as Cedric started chasing the snitch, Davies and Flint
      had already taken off to their own goal post to help Wood stopping
      the 160th point. They were now all playing for a tie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric stole a glance at the goalpost as he was flying. All the
      three of first year chasers took off as senior chasers approached.
      The goal won't be happening immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cedric would be able to catch the snitch before the 160th point.
      He extended his hands to catch the snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the snitch disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did it happen on its own?" Lee's voice was announcing " Or did
      sudden lights that came from Harry's wand were responsible for
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It looked like he casted something like multiple Lumos Maxima at
      the same time, the lights spread in all the directions and all the
      team players went to those lighted spots immediately except
      Hermione, who presumably just couldn't fly very well. Even the
      attacking trio of Draco, Padma and Parvati dropped the chance of
      their 160th point to follow the light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I somehow don't think that it was coincidence. But what happened
      just now, only Harry and his team might know. We will need to wait
      for the answer about how they made the snitch disappear, if they
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And meanwhile it is here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville has dismantled the third hoop. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And for the third time the stadium watched a goal post go
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" They have finally done it." Lee said " First years have now
      made it impossible for the seniors to score.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In turn it looks like all the senior chasers are now back in the
      game to prevent the 160th point. They aren't even trying to score
      now, I mean of course they aren't, their main aim apparently is to
      not let the first years have the quaffle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They are still fighting for a tie. This could take time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Wait a minute, I correct myself. It looks like this won't take
      time." Lee said "Look who has just joined the party."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Goyle was shooting his way through the first years, and just
      behind him was Neville who was making the bludger chase him as if
      he had it tied up from the end of his broom from some invisible
      cords.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And just before he reached the crowd in the air, he swerved away
      just like Harry had previously. The bludger shot in the air and hit
      Derrick who instantly flew back under the force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment's confusion was created and in that moment Draco rose
      up in the air picking the quaffle dropped by Derrick and throwing
      it just from above Wood's blind spot. It passed clean.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">160th point was scored.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Down below Harry stopped his zig zag moments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was as if some machinery suddenly stopped. No player in the
      stadium was moving any longer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Finally" Harry said " Its over."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
