<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 20: Disobedience, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20: Disobedience</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I take over the mike?" Harry's voice said to Lee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Boy, you are getting good with this Ventriliquo thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sure thing, take over, there are plenty of things we want
      explained. What the hell had you been doing this entire match? How
      did you make the snitch disappear, or the bludgers follow you as if
      charmed? And so much that I will need to make a list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just what magic were you using out there? " Lee asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's voice then took over the mike</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Magic?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh yeah, we used a powerful spell. Rinsio.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby, the house elf taught it to us. He must be here somewhere
      with SPHEW members right now. Thanks for it Dobby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's a really useful spell. Cleans up all the stains on your
      cloak in no time. Particulaly useful for the blood stains that our
      cloaks would have after all the tests we conducted on bludgers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For we knew that the rule book said that bludger is supposed to
      be random. That 'If left to their own device, the bludger would
      attack the closest player.' Quidditch through the ages, page 22.
      Yeah, I even remember the page number now. Did we read that one
      single line infinite times or what.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Asking ourselves questions like what would happen if two players
      are equally close to a bludger at the same time. What about 3
      then?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gathering the data about speed of the bludger, its turning
      frequency etc. etc.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We didn't cast any magic on bludgers. We just understood it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And thanks Mrs. Pomfrey for mending me and Neville every single
      day as we pursued our line of curiosity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And we felt compelled to find out these possibilities by
      ourselves, since while its true that we were playing a game, we
      weren't playing somebody else's game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We weren't doing things just because that's how people have been
      doing them for hundreds of years. Or had been copying for hundreds
      of years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For after all, this game was all about age. About assumption
      that older is better. About absorption of Dragon and Sunshine in
      the senior year armies just because they were born a few years
      ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And if anything sums it all up, its that snitch that was never
      the part of this game. That became a part when a power crazy
      bureaucrat disrupted the game and used his influence to change it
      according to his whim.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And nobody questioned it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And by nobody, I mean you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Your objective was to over come the opponents, our objective was
      to overcome the assumptions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You wanted to be better, we wanted to be good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Good on our own terms. True to our own objective.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To not see the world with a second hand imagination. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry went silent with these words. Few in the crowd were paying
      close attention to all the things spoken and unspoken, while most
      were just noticing that their beliefs were being questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued, " Most of you are still looking around to see
      what others are thinking. But then I wasn't planning to end this
      with an appeal to your rationality.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As I said the objective is not to overcome the opponents, but to
      overcome assumptions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rather than asking you to play the game without snitch, I will
      just make it irrelevant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And to do that, I will explain the last mystery of the game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Do you remember the time when Cedric just missed catching the
      Snitch and tying the game? You didn't think my spell at that time
      was a coincidence did you?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thing is, we didn't just study bludgers. We also studied the
      snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">We found that they are almost opposites of each other. While
      bludger senses the players and tries to hit them, the Snitch senses
      the players and tries to escape from them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That's why it is usually found high up or near the ground, since
      most players are in the middle level. That is why it is also
      frequently found near the toes or ears of the players, since that
      is their blindspot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So the trajectory of a snitch can be said to be near negative to
      that of a bludger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After knowing that, and finding out the details, all I had to do
      was this..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lumos Maximus Multiplus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snitchus Calculus." Harry said the spell out aloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Five shots of lights emerged from Harry's wand at once and went
      to different locations in air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every player in the first year team took off at once to position
      of the lighted spots. Only two players didn't move, Harry who was
      still speaking and Hermione who just preferred hovering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" And with just five players " Harry said " We have changed the
      player density of the ground. The snitch will now have to find a
      new location to hide, and by the base of calculations, it would be
      there. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pointed a finger. Just above the head of Harry and other
      players, the snitch fluttered its wings silently. Ready to be
      caught in a single swoop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yet nobody moved to take it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" It will move in about five to ten seconds. Want to do a
      count-up?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Never mind, it has moved already to second optimum location. We
      can move to catch it , but rather than that I will just bring it up
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lumos Maximus Multiplus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snitchus Calculus</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Continuus. " Harry said . And once again the five players
      swiftly moved to the new positions indicated by the light
      spots.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" There." Harry pointed to the snitch that once again was
      visible. " It is now visible again there. Worse, it is now
      predictable. My last spell will keep telling the team where to
      move. And as long as others are not flying too far away, that
      snitch will keep coming back to the same spot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anybody who knows how this spell works can easily catch the
      snitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And I will be posting the details of this spell on Floo Book by
      tonight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snitch wouldn't be part of this game any longer. Not if anybody
      wants to play it for more than 5 seconds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A spell bound crowd kept seeing the snitch disappear, the lights
      change, the players move and snitch appear again. With precision,
      it fluttered on that exact spot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody in the stadium understood this pretty clearly; snitch
      was gone. Harry could have won the game anytime, could have had the
      first year armies back to their dormitories and victory parties
      after like first 5 seconds of the game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he played this crazy game, just to show the possibilities of
      the game without snitch?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You think you know it all, don't you?" a voice contacted Harry
      through Ventriliquo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Derrick?" Harry said as he recognized the voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You want to know the difference between first years and
      seniors? Its simple. We are bigger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All your arrangements mean nothing. I will just knock out
      players of yours one by one. The game is not over yet, it would
      just count as a foul. Score extra points if you want to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For that's all you can do. You got to gloat just now because
      Wood wouldn't listen to reason. Wouldn't foul against you first
      years. I will show you how the real game would have gone. I am not
      afraid of you Harry." Derrick said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry located Derrick, he was about as far from Harry as Harry
      was from ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" That's because you are too stupid. But I promise you, if you
      do something like that, I will teach you to be afraid of me."
      Harry's cold voice said to Derrick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Whom to knock off the broom first? Whom? Whom?" Derrick said
      without paying attention. " Oh yeah, that little red haired sphew
      who doesn't know how to fly." And Derrick zoomed forward at full
      speed "She is going down. And there is nothing you can do to save
      her. You can't reach me on time even with maximum speed of your
      broom. Isn't that right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." Harry said in a quick resolution.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His hands moved and he shifted the weight effortlessly. In a
      moment his broom was pointing at an angle in the sky. It was an
      absolutely graceful display of flight control.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then.. he jumped down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick was zooming towards Hermione. She had seen him but it
      didn't matter. She wouldn't be able to escape with her pathetic
      flying skill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody would interrupt this revenge. Everybody was far off, even
      Harry couldn't reach him until and unless he learned how to
      apparate in Hogwarts grounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just then, he heard a sound of puff. Somebody grabbed him and
      everything in front of his blacked out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You got to be kidding me?" Derrick shouted " Did you actually
      learn how to apparate within Hogwarts grounds, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wrestled with the hands gripping his face to remove them. It
      was then he realized that the hands were too thin even for a first
      year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He freed his eyes from the grip and saw that he was facing a
      little puny house elf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." that creature said in a voice that reminded Derrick of
      last message of Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a moment Derrick panicked. But then something within him
      reminded him that there was no need to panic. He was facing a house
      elf after all. He didn't need to use force. Just an order would
      do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Get off me house elf." Derrick ordered to the struggling house
      elf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house elf didn't move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was happening? How could it have refused a direct
      order?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Get off me, now!" Derrick shouted, a panic rising within
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His hand prised his eyes free from the grip a little more and he
      found himself looking within round eyes of deep green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That eye gazed back at him with a chilling look. As if to an
      unasked question, the elf answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby would not let anyone harm Ms. Hermione." Dobby said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick could have sworn that Dobby's pupil got narrower and
      scarier with each and every word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then suddenly there was an impact and his broom was gone from
      under him and he was falling. Falling upwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Few seconds ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was falling down after he jumped from his broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Fly. Full speed." He shouted to his broom that aimed upwards
      towards sky, at an angle and then he shouted once more "FRED!
      GEORGE!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His body continued falling towards the ground. Madam Pomfrey
      can't mend scattered brains, he reminded himself of that fact as he
      saw the ground getting closer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then two arms grabbed him from the sides. His descent slowed
      down and then he started moving upwards. Harry looked up at the
      Weasleys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" And we thought" Fred said</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" That our jumping on a still broom was crazy." George said with
      great admiration in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Had to do it." Harry said. " A broom's maximum speed falls
      with more weight on it. And it increases when the weight is
      removed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick was right, I couldn't have reached him on time. But a
      broom without rider could."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" So to save Hermione from falling down to her death, you fall
      down to your own death?" George asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" No way." Harry answered " I knew you would catch me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all looked up to see the impact of the Harry's broom with
      Derrick. There were some odd movements there, and a greenish
      blur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Now stop doing this Derrick." Cedric ventriliquoed with snitch
      in his hand" The game is over. Its their win."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick's voice came back but it didn't seem to be addressing
      Cedric.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Get off me, now!" Derrick said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then everybody around heard another voice , one that was
      cold and fiery at the same time " Dobby would not let anyone harm
      Ms. Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby?" Harry noticed with a wonder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then there was the crash. Harry's broom got entangled in
      Derrick's cloak , lifting him higher up in the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had seen Derrick coming. She was ready with her wand to
      hex him the moment he came in the range.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But just as she was about to fire her spell, the crash happened.
      She breathed a sigh of relief. Everything was safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she was knocked out of her broom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick's rider-less broom had continued to travel towards her.
      She should have foreseen that, she thought. She should have been
      able to avoid that and now she just had few seconds to kick herself
      mentally as the ground rushed close. Maybe Dumbledore would save
      her. He wouldn't just let a student fall to death, would he?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her fall stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was hanging in air by her cloak's neck, which was being held
      by.. " Dobby?" Hermione shrieked with relief as she looked up at
      Dobby who was now flying on her just abandoned broom. The sun
      behind gave him a halo and completed the glorious scene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhere in the back of her thankful mind, she was making a
      mental note to burn her copy of 'Hogwarts: A History' that talked
      about how 'people' can't apparate within Hogwarts castle. So even
      the wisest didn't think of house elves as 'people', did they?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was the only person with those thoughts though. The rest of
      Hogwarts was almost violently celebrating the end of this
      phenomenal game and above all they were celebrating the final image
      as Dobby held on to Hermione's hand and didn't let her fall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somewhere in the distance Draco was hearing Patil twins coo at
      that scene "How unlike his master" they said. And Draco couldn't
      help but shudder at the thought that from now onwards he was
      forever going to be remembered as 'The Drop Lord'.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
