<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 21: Disobedience Part II, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21: Disobedience Part II</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was rather relieved when the crowd focused their entire
      energy on throwing Dobby up and down in the air. Besides, Harry
      genuinely felt that Dobby deserved that celebration. Though Harry
      still didn't get how Dobby was able to disobey a direct order from
      Derrick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Nice game Harry" Fred and George said as they approached
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Thanks. No need to say, but the same goes for you too guys."
      Harry grinned " And yeah, one more thing. I will be posting the
      spell for snitch control on your Floo Book. You guys won't have any
      problem with that move would you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two jaws dropped and four eyes opened a bit larger than they
      were used to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" 'Our' Floo Book. How did you know that we.."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">".. were together the 'Gutenberg of Gossip', the 'Life Eater'
      etc. ?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I helped Zabini hack the site to make a betting page, remember?
      I couldn't help but find out a few details about the originators."
      Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't tell anybody about this." Fred said in a hush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" We have plans for this thing. What you see now, it's just a
      prototype." George whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I am not telling anyone. But seriously, if only Winklevoss
      brothers knew that some other twins did this. Ha ha ha." Harry
      laughed and as the laughter died he found out that he was the only
      one laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I don't know why I just said that." Harry replied "
      Particularly because according to our timeline Winklevoss twins
      wouldn't even get involved in the matter for ages." Harry completed
      the sentence in a single breath knowing that he will hear silence
      once again in reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" And no, I don't know why I said that either. Popular theory is
      that this is what happens to you if you spend too much time with
      Dumbledore." Harry said and finally there was some empathy in
      twins' eyes. 'Ah, another victim of our crazy headmaster' they must
      have thought with some pride.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Talking about Dumbledore, look who is coming to congratulate
      you." George said and looked back. Harry knew the answer without
      turning back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are leaving. Don't you dare get any weirder while we are
      gone." Fred said and the twins walked off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath. Was he prepared for the conversation
      with Headmaster finally? Could anybody ever be prepared to take on
      that madness voluntarily? Harry let his deep breath free again. He
      had to do this. He turned around and found himself staring up in
      electric blue eyes behind half moon spectacles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Congratulations Harry. That was an interesting game in deed.
      You managed to achieve your twin objectives of removing the snitch
      and stopping the inter year wars." Dumbledore said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Not really professor." Harry said. He took a second before
      beginning to speak again, but then it was all long planned, he
      couldn't stop the execution now " Stopping the Inter Year Wars was
      never my objective. I rather thought that it was a great idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Please continue with it. Let superior teams absorb the inferior
      teams.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And by that of course I mean disband the armies of the senior
      generals who were in today's game. And let us, the winnders command
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Won't that be a better form of Inter Year Wars. Wasn't that the
      whole purpose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry said and waited with his fists involuntarily clenched. He
      knew that Dumbledore would give a reply that he perhaps won't even
      be able to understand , let alone counter. But he had to counter
      it. He had to make sure that his version of Inter Year Wars
      happened, for it would give him the real training, that of
      commanding those who were considered grown ups. All he had to do
      was to somehow win this argument with Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'OK.' Dumbledore said "Congrats once again." And he turned back
      to go away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" What?" Harry couldn't suppress that question " You just
      agreed? You just Agreed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Sure." Dumbledore turned back and smiled " After all this is
      just the first stage of your game. I will get plenty of time to
      screw with you later on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. Twice. Headmaster was crazy, but since when did
      he start being that funky? And more importantly..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Fist stage of my game?" Harry asked tentatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You think its not obvious? Did you think, Mr. Takamura, that
      when you threatened to announce your predictions to a stadium full
      of people, I would believe that as an attempt to get leverage?"
      Dumbledore looked down from his height at Harry with an unflinching
      kindness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was getting nervous. He couldn't afford that conversation
      to continue. He wasn't yet ready to take on Dumbledore at such an
      early stage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it doesn't matter." Dumbledore said, "I am in a good
      mood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After all, not everyday one sees two successful revolts against
      the precedents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I will leave now Harry, but let me complete the final duty of an
      old wizard to impart some parting gems of wisdom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more
      than our abilities.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though I wasn't really supposed to say that until the end of
      your second year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But today as we once again see the future change, who knows if
      there would be a second year at all. And that line seemed like an
      important thing to tell." After saying that Dumbledore smiled for
      few seconds while seeing an expression of dumbfounded-ness on
      Harry's face that seemed to be universal amongst audience of
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry meanwhile was trying to remember these sentences verbatim.
      Was Dumbledore really being crazy once again, or was he telling him
      something about the nature of prophecies and time travel? But then,
      he again reminded himself not to take the bait. There was a clear
      information asymmetry here and at this stage he was not yet ready
      to go for that conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You said" Harry found himself asking something altogether
      different " that there were two successful revolts against the
      precedents today. Which was the other one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Nice question to pick Harry, out of all the possibilities.
      Truly." He said. " Is there any other question that you haven't
      answered yourself today? Like how exactly a friend of yours
      overcame his very fundamentals of nature in order to save another
      friend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with these words, Dumbledore finally walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned towards Dobby. Indeed, how did he manage it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby had by now escaped the cheerful mob and was standing by
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby." Harry walked up to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby didn't move even slightly. Harry walked a bit further and
      his shadow fell over Dobby. With a start, he comically jumped and
      looked up to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Harry Potter Sir." He said with a delighted expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Dobby, thanks a lot for saving Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But if I may ask, how did you ignore Derrick's direct orders?"
      Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Eh?" Dobby seemed confused and then his eyes brightened " Just
      a minute Potter sir, Dobby can't hear you right now."<br class="calibre4"/>
      Dobby raised his hands, and in a movement that was all too familiar
      to Harry, Dobby snapped his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two small bursts of smoke appeared near Dobby's ears. And an
      extra magically grown skin disappeared from his earholes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry found that he nearly stopped breathing for a second. His
      skin rustled with the sensation of goosebumps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He finally understood what Dobby had done. So simple, yet so
      remarkable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't just close his ears to not hear the command, he in
      effect found a will to try and go against his very nature to
      obey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was just proven wrong. But he felt that he could shout
      with joy. And keep on shouting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Sorry, Potter sir. I had magically closed my ears to not hear
      whatever Derrick ordered Dobby to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was Potter sir saying?" Dobby asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I was wrong about you Dobby. Harry wanted to say. I was wrong
      about House elves in general. How could I have been so blind? You
      did overcome what I supposed to be your fundamental nature, and all
      by yourself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was right about you. And I am so thankful for that
      Dobby.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Mr. Potter sir?" Dobby looked a bit anxious as Harry just
      stood there saying nothing and looking at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing." Harry finally said. " I just wanted to say how
      thankful I am to you Dobby, for… for what you did today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yeah" Harry added as an afterthought " What book had you
      been reading this past month?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Missy Hermione gave that wonderful book to me." Dobby said and
      his tone had shifted from respect to that of pride " Life and times
      of Frederick Douglass."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Frederick Douglass. But, of course." Harry said. " Thanks once
      again Dobby. I do owe you" And he walked away before Dobby could
      have started with his protests.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Far up in the sky Derrick was clinging on for his dear life as a
      broom kept on taking him higher. His attempts to turn it back had
      proven useless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Stop" Harry's voice came through Ventriliquo and finally the
      broom stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" There is something I want to say to you Derrick" Harry's voice
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick didn't respond. He was afraid. Very afraid. He didn't
      want to hear anything. He would do whatever Harry asked him to do
      right now, if only Harry would let him down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Harry's voice continued after, what seemed to be, a
      moment's struggle. "And what I want to say is, sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Static stopped in Derrick's mind. Harry was apologizing to
      him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Don't get me wrong. I am not apologizing for what I did right
      now. I wouldn't have let you attack Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that said, I did provoke you in the earlier game when I
      called you fat. I did humiliate you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whatever your actions might have been in the past, nothing then
      warranted that treatment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I didn't apologize earlier because I just thought of you as a
      bully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But today I surprisingly discovered my own invisible assumption
      that people do not change. And today I also saw it proven
      completely wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So I apologies for that one act.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And I hope you and I will change for the better too." Harry
      concluded and on his next command the broom containing an
      inscrutable Derrick turned back.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
