<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 3: Combat Commentators Part I, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Combat Commentators Part I</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">" Hello everyone. Welcome to the unofficial final of the year. "
      Lee's cheerful voice announced to an energetic Sunday morning crowd
      of the stadium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both Ravenclaw and Slytherin are ruling the point charts
      without any contention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ravenclaw comes to this match boasting of its Star Chaser
      Captain Davies, who has made a fine art of beating all the defenses
      of the opposite team. In previous match with Hufflepuff, he forced
      their chasers too to play the defense positions yet there was no
      stopping him or his goal rate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin captain Flint has to take that almost as a personal
      insult. Since he and his entire 'chaser' team are coming to this
      match with a score of 0 against Gryffindor in previous match. In
      fact with Weasley Brothers' general mayhem and with Super Keeper
      Wood's near perfect defense, the only reason that Gryffindor isn't
      clean sweeping the opposition is because they can't find a seeker
      decent enough to catch a snitch if it were the size of quaffle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But we can stop thinking about that right now. Ravenclaw and
      Slytherin can start making all the noise for their teams.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Hufflepuff and Gryffindors can cheer up as well since today
      is the only game day of the season when their team won't loose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All those things aside get ready folks. Both teams are here and
      so is Madam Hooch. The show is about to begin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A snitch fluttered and disappeared. 14 players flew in a blur of
      speed and a roar of cheers made the stadium shiver with
      anticipation. Everybody's eyes were on the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If somebody would have paid notice, they might have seen
      students do something they do only during class time; whisper. But
      nobody was noticing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee continued " And yes. The game has immediately turned to a
      personal grudge match between the two captains. Marcus flint is in
      the possession of the quaffle and flying away towards the
      goalpost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Breathing down his broomstick is Davies. Flint is now trying to
      shake him off, and he looses Davies. He has a clear angle at the
      goals now, defense is coming now to intercept, but they won't be in
      time. He is going to score.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Woah. Defended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Davies shows unbelievable reflexes and steals the quaffle from
      midflight flying backwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now he is speeding full speed towards the goal post on the other
      end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He dodges the bludgers, another chaser homes in on him. And
      Davies passes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He passes to Andrew who has a clear shot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he Scores!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee's voice boomed loud in the stadium. A bit too loud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Usually his voice was drowned in the cheers that immediately
      followed. Yet, the cheers this time were dispersed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The near silence that followed the goal was most audible. Even
      the players stopped for a second in mid air. If snitch would have
      stopped and hovered at one spot at that time, both the seekers
      would have missed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee looked around to his Head of the House who was always there,
      ready to snatch away the mike the moment it was necessary. (And
      with Lee, it often was)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall too could sense it. There was something strange going
      on. She walked over to some students nearby who seemed to be more
      interested in a book rather than the game. She had often chided her
      students for playing games in the class when they should have been
      reading. It seemed slightly insane to her as she now asked the
      students to hand over the book and pay more attention to the
      game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she did confiscate it and then as she couldn't help but be
      curious, she opened the book.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
