<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 5: Divination Part I, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: Divination Part I</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">" How could you?" McGonagall asked Harry who was once again in
      her office. Draco, or Eiji, was being questioned by Severus Snape
      separately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By a combo of Muffliato and Ventriliquo" Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" McGonagall's confusion was instinctive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's how I overtook the commentary from Lee. I thought you
      would be happy that I stopped him" Harry tried to sound equally
      confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care about that. How did you predict the results?"
      McGonagall said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that again." Harry sighed. "You suspect that I have used
      the Time Turner, don't you? This is getting to be repetitive"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Haven't you? How else could you have predicted every single
      point?" McGonagall asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" McGonagall asked again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Is it too far fetched to believe that somebody could have made
      those predictions? Even after reading all the reasons I provided,
      all the strategic outcomes I outlined?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" It is a bit far fetched that a first year student who has
      never played the game before, never even bothered to see a single
      match until today would suddenly be able to predict the score. It
      was like you had learned divination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Definition is the true divination." Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall stopped. She stopped because she understood. Some
      part of her brain wasn't going to be the same again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The great muggle economist Adam Smith talked about mankind when
      they had not invented compass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Imagine the people living near the sea shore, seeing that great
      wide length in front of themselves and not being able to go beyond
      the horizon of their eyesight. Forever afraid of what may be
      beyond, afraid of falling off the edge of the flat world they
      'knew' themselves to be living in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But when the definition of the world was changed for better,
      painstakingly, bit by bit, voyage by voyage, we found out the
      sphere and filled in the blanks . It became simple to see far
      beyond what just eyes could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By defining their world, they were able to divine their position
      in it. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Mr. Potter" McGonagall said " I may not know much about
      definition, but thanks to a dear colleague of mine, I do know
      things about divination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A map of the world is still not the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You may be able to say it roughly where you would land if you
      follow a particular path. But there is a limit to that
      possibility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Divination is a rather imprecise branch of magic. The best seers
      may not have been able to predict the match point by point as you
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So while your definition, or should I say your 'map drawing' may
      be excellent, I still do not believe that you predicted every
      single point of the game with just reasoning. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you are going to check me for time turner use, even if you
      don't have any proof. Just like the last time when you didn't find
      anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do have a record of breaking rules Harry"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What rule have I broken in this incident?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, the rules you break are usually the ones that nobody has
      written as yet. I guess that's because there aren't many people who
      imagine up the offenses that you do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if its not written, then how does it become a rule?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok, fine. You did break the rule of interrupting the match. You
      broke into school system of commentary. That is an obvious
      violation. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was the first thing I talked about. Remember? I told you
      how I used Muffliato and Ventriliquo to take over the commentary.
      Then you expressly said that you didn't care about that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So if you base your inquiry on that, it would just be a
      hypocrisy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You seem like you are desperate to hide something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Either 'hide' or 'protect'. In this instance, it would be
      protecting my rights to not be unduly harassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just by being in authority, you get to question me anytime you
      want. If on any occasion, I am wrong then there are huge penalties
      to pay. Yet, if you are wrong, then there are absolutely no
      consequences.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why should I be the only one with something at stake? "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think it doesn't pain me to doubt you again and again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Does it pain the headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How is that relevant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who ordered you to interrogate me right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall didn't reply. Harry knew she wouldn't. She had always
      had doubt about Headmaster's intentions. And she was honest.
      Defining her was equivalent to divining her. That part of Harry's
      arguments was not a strategy, but a truth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a moment of mutual silence, Harry said what he wanted
      to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine. I will agree to take the Time Turner test.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But on a condition"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" McGonagall was surprised by both the acceptance and the
      demand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A condition." Harry said "And I will tell the condition only
      after Headmaster permits it. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked at the creases on her face getting more crumpled. She
      was considering a negative reply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Won't it be a fair thing to do professor?" Harry added. If
      bringing up the concept of 'Fairness' didn't work on McGonagall,
      then his hope was already gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall's wrinkles ceased compressing further. Harry knew
      that he had succeeded in convincing her.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
