<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 6: Divination Part II, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Divination Part II</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">They reached the end of the spiral that led to Dumbledore's
      office. And then the gate opened to release a shout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" He Abused me. He was terrible. Asked everybody to give me more
      food. Can you imagine?" A furious Derrick was shouting at
      Dumbledore. Harry wondered how he got the meeting with Dumbledore.
      Maybe he just shouted his way in .</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But my dear Derrick, that is quite terrible" Dumbledore
      remarked. " You should take strong steps against it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How about protesting with a hunger strike?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed laughter. McGonogall wasn't finding anything
      funny here. When she spoke, Harry noticed she actually seemed
      concerned about Derrick. It was perhaps only fair. Perhaps even
      Derrick didn't yet deserve a conversation alone with
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster", she said to divert the conversation and Harry
      distinctly noticed her throwing a kind and concerned look toward
      Derrick " There is a matter that we need to discuss about Harry,
      he.."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At mention of Harry's name, Derrick turned in his chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You." Derrick thundered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You noticed just now?" Harry said " No wonder you are not a
      seeker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think you are funny. " Derrick said while walking towards
      Harry. " Have you forgotten already what I did to you in Quirell's
      class?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick stood a shove's distance away from Harry. His eyes
      locked on Harry's eyes from above.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the side, McGonagall's concern for Derrick suddenly increased
      multifold. First coming to Dumbledore's office alone with a
      complaint and then directly threatening Harry, Derrick certainly
      was courting trouble with all his heart. "Derrick" she said "Are
      you.."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could sense some of the surprise in McGonagall's voice. He
      completed the sentence for her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Professor." He said out aloud "He is as thick mentally as
      he is physically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" McGonagall exclaimed with fury.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Part of Harry did feel appreciation for her. Her current fury
      was more intense than when she was talking about wrong use of time
      turner. She was really concerned about Derrick. She was concerned
      even if Derrick had been a bully for years. She would have punished
      him most severely if she ever found him guilty. But she wouldn't
      let that be a biasing factor. She wouldn't let even a bully be
      bullied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, Harry couldn't stop now. He had to bully Derrick a bit
      more. It was an unexpected development to find him in Dumbledore's
      office. But now that he was here, it was much easier to move
      directly to the aim of the whole setup. The perfect opportunity to
      successfully conclude the first step to overturn the absorption of
      Dragon and Sunshine armies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Meanwhile Derrick has had too much. Harry after all had made
      sure that Derrick should have too much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I challenge you" Derrick said, cutting Prof. McGonagall's
      outburst " I challenge you to a duel?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A challenge? Of what?" Harry asked " The only two things you
      are remotely good at are eating and playing Quidditch. But then you
      would be afraid of a Quidditch match since you might be defeated by
      first years. How about a pudding eating contest instead? Let the
      whole Hogwarts know that you have a moleskin pouch for a stomach."
      Harry helpfully suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick seemed to be pumping himself wider with breath. This was
      not good. He was supposed to reply here. Harry asked himself if he
      had made the proper reply too obscure for Derrick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fine, he will make it more obvious with an additional
      insult.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, amongst Quidditch and Eating matches, that's what you
      ought to choose." Harry continued "The increased width from the
      contest may help you defend all the three goalposts at once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" That's it. " Derrick finally found words " I challenge you to
      a Quidditch match. I would settle for nothing less than humiliating
      you on the same ground as you humiliated me. It's only fair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He of course didn't realize that the words that he found were
      the ones that Harry made him find. He didn't realize that he had
      started with a challenge of a duel, a wizarding duel, and ended
      with a Quidditch challenge in stead. He just noticed that he
      finally had some sort of a victory. So he turned to Headmaster with
      hope that the permission would be granted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir, please allow us to have a Quidditch match" Derrick
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This can't be allowed." McGonagall said from the side. "None of
      the first years even play Quidditch. They might be hurt. The idea
      is insane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. Things were going according to plan. McGonagall
      calling an idea insane was a sure sign that Dumbledore would
      whole-heartedly champion it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Professor" Harry said aloud, addressing McGonagall "
      Headmaster already approves of this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He has already approved of the Inter Year Wars in the defense
      against dark arts classes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So doesn't that mean that he wants the first year students to
      break the age barriers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall suddenly stopped protesting. She could now see what
      the whole thing was about. She had been around Dumbledore for too
      long to not spot a plot in its climax. This was the condition Harry
      wanted in exchange for the time turner test, condition to challenge
      the Inter Year War conditions, and now with Derrick being here, he
      didn't even need to take the test.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued his appeal to Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And after all. If a Hero faces a challenge that seems to be
      beyond him, can he possibly shy away from it?" Harry concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yup, everything going smooth according to the plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was never a good sign. Harry's heart and mind started to
      race faster just a little bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Minerva. " he said " what was it that you brought Harry in my
      office for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" It was, .. " McGonagall said or tried to " It was on account
      of the sensitive matter. But I guess we should talk about it
      later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Minerva, there is no need." Dumbledore said. " I believe
      Mr. Potter did not breach your instructions on the matter. In fact
      if I am not wrong, he would have most likely agreed to take the
      test, but with some condition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Am I mistaken on that Minerva?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall was trying to understand how Dumbledore already knew
      the outcome of their meeting. She nodded in affirmative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry meanwhile was just reminding himself why Dumbledore
      laughing was always ominous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I had told her earlier that she could question you on the
      matter but that it would be unnecessary, Harry." Dumbledore
      addressed him " For you see. I do believe in you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was surprised for a second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" And when I say I believe in you" Dumbledore continued, " I
      mean that at the very least I believe in your lack of guilt, if not
      innocence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't surprised any more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Derrick was looking back and forth as if to try and find
      subtitles for this conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" And regarding the permission that the two of you seek…" he
      said looking at Derrick "..well there it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A knock came on the open door at that precise moment. Derrick
      instinctively looked around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oliver Wood, Marcus Flint, Roger Davies and Cedric Diggory
      entered the Headmaster's chambers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt a chill. Dumbledore really had foreseen Harry's
      motive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You called us Professor?" Oliver asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I did." Dumbledore pleasantly replied. " You see I was
      saying that I believe that things could be predicted. So I
      predicted that you would be here at this time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But professor" Wood calmly replied " You knew that we would be
      here. You asked us to be here at this time, remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But I asked you to be here because you were going to be here.
      " Dumbledore said in a tone that implied that he was imparting
      unprecedented wisdom on every single being on the planet with this
      one sentence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even Derrick could sense that there was something mad about
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I hope one day you will all understand that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">5 people in the room passionately hoped that such a day would
      never come.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But what you can understand today, " Dumbledore said " is that
      you are here because you are Captains of your Quidditch team as
      well as the generals of your armies. Thus due to an agreement
      between Harry and Derrick, your presence would be desirable in a
      Quidditch match. If you all agree, you can move to the office of
      Madam Hooch later on and she will give you further
      instructions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I think with the 5 of you, all the positions in the team would
      be determined except the position of beaters. Assuming of course
      that Mr. Derrick chooses to return to his previous position of
      chaser. Thus theoretically, Madam Hooch will choose the beaters, it
      would seem that the result is currently unpredictable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But is it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Is there anybody who really can't predict who those two beaters
      would be?" He said. And now he was talking directly to Harry "
      That's what I mean when I say I believe in your 'lack of guilt'.
      Certain things are not only predictable but inevitable. Aren't they
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore said and then started to look at the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Things had gone smooth till now. Dumbledore had agreed and also
      involved the army generals in the Quidditch team. This was just
      what Harry wanted. But why was Harry getting what he wanted before
      he could ask it. Just how far has Dumbledore seen his plan. The
      answer, Harry felt, would be walking soon through the door that
      Dumbledore was looking at.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A knock that people knew would be heard was in deed heard,
      Zabini and Bulstrode entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt like he was hit. His complete plan was figured out.
      Dumbledore didn't just know that Harry had used time turner, but he
      knew the exact method.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please come in" Dumbledore said. " But I am afraid that you
      aren't supposed to be here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" But" Zabini said with some hesitation " you were the one who
      asked us to be here at this precise time. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I asked you because you would have been here anyway, but now
      that you are here, I have to tell you that there was no particular
      need."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everybody in the room looked at Zabini and Bulstrode with
      sympathy in their eyes. They wanted to tell them that Dumbledore's
      insanity is universal and shouldn't be taken personally. Though
      that wouldn't have been much help either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry however could clearly listen to the warning being issued
      to him by Dumbledore. Was this how it was? Did Dumbledore always
      said things so that it would make sense only to one person whose
      secret plot was being destroyed? Was that why he sounded insane to
      everyone else who had no idea about the situation they were in?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore continued pleasantly " And this mistake is of course
      what I meant when I was talking about lack of guilt as well as lack
      of innocence. " Dumbledore said looking to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't or couldn't say anything back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess that concludes it. Inter year wars are on hold. The
      fate of it shall be decided by a Quidditch match that shall be held
      one month from now." Dumbledore said " Unless of course anybody
      else here wants to challenge anybody else. This time I will get to
      decide the method of contest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A cold shudder went through collective consciousness of the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall came to her senses first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Now get moving all of you." She said to her students gently
      nudging them to the direction of the door. " It is lunch time
      already, and you must be terribly hungry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She instantly regretted her words as she found Derrick turning
      to her with deep hurt in his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry despite himself couldn't help but laugh.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
