<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 7: Divination Part III, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: Divination Part III</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry" Zabini whispered to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Others left for the great Hall for lunch. Bulstrode traveled the
      fastest to outrun the breaking gossip of an Inter Year Quidditch
      match. She had to. After all with her time turner recently limited
      to 6 hours she didn't have much room to spare that day after a busy
      match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zabini thus continued whispering even if they were now alone "
      What was that all about? Did Dumbledore know about us taking the
      bets on Quidditch match?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Zabini. His obvious attempts to mix an
      accusation with a question was almost cute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You mean to say that does Dumbledore know that you take bets
      on a Quidditch match. That you have been taking the bets this
      entire season, and have been making sure that students here have
      much lesser pocket money. " Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You say as if you disapprove Harry. You were the one who gave
      me the idea of taking the whole thing to Floo book. You showed me
      how to do it, how to have people commit the amount in writing and
      make sure that curses would fire on them if they breach the
      contract.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You even told me exactly what bets to make.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And boy was it a good business. No more betting on the winner
      and looser only. One can bet for every single point. Funny thing is
      that whole thing is addictive. The more the people bet, the more
      they want to bet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. " Harry suppressed his detest for Gambling and
      Zabini's delight over people's addiction. He continued in plain
      conversational tone "But the thing is that Dumbledore knows about
      the whole thing now, so you should close it as soon as
      possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started to walk away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You can't just walk off like this." Zabini called behind him.
      " You are involved in this too. If Dumbledore knows about this then
      you have to figure out how to get him off this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued to walk, only change was that he was laughing
      now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I know why you helped me with betting" Zabini said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" It is not a coincidence that you just came up to me and helped
      me make bets and then went on to predict the entire game. Is it?"
      Zabini continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned back</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You aren't into gambling or Quidditch. You just took the whole
      data from bets and saw who was the favorite. Maybe applied some
      muggle science or something on it. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry relaxed. So Zabini didn't really know about what had
      happened. He was just guessing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I will tell Dumbledore the whole story. You wouldn't want that
      would you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One day Zabini would grow up to be a fine example of slytherin
      manipulator. Currently though he was just a kid. Harry couldn't
      even feel proper anger towards him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I wouldn't want that, would I?" Harry said " Let me see. I
      told you how to use Floo Book properly and wrote a couple of bets
      for you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Did I ever ask you to make the bets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, you clearly said that I could do whatever I want
      with it." Zabini said and then stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" You realize already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What I did could have just been an exercise in studying
      probability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What you did was not only rule breaking, it might as well as
      have been a crime." Harry bluffed. He didn't know the legal stand
      of magical world on betting, but with Zabini, he didn't need to get
      serious, he could just play around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So while I may be questioned and mildly chided by McGonagall,
      you may find that your wand is being snapped in two and you are
      joining Hagrid in his hut as an assistant to keep watch on the
      monsters in the Forbidden Forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So I don't think you want to do what you said you want to do,
      unless you also want to spend the rest of your life trying to
      double cross an Aragog." Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Zabini didn't know what an Aragog was, but he was sure that he
      didn't want to know either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But then again" Harry said " You do like to shoot yourself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So by all means, do tell Dumbledore ."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry walked away this time with no interruption from Zabini
      who was holding on tight to his unsnapped wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lunch was already over by the time Harry reached the Great
      hall. He moved on towards the Ravenclaw dormitory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was facing the portrait of the Ravenclaw lady that nobody
      seemed to know the name of. She was much like her riddles that one
      had to answer to gain entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She smiled at him when she saw him approach. " If a war's
      outcome is known beforehand then is it worth fighting?" She
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was rather topical. Where did she get her questions? Did
      she know somehow what happens in the castle and make a question
      based on that?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No war's outcome is ever known before it is fought." Harry
      answered with a slight guilt in his voice. Harry wondered if he
      really believed in that answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct young Raven. You may now enter".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened. Harry entered the common room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the activity in the room came to a stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course they all knew about the forthcoming Quidditch match,
      Harry thought. One could count on Milicent Bulstrode to spread the
      word. She might have even used the remaining limit of her time
      turner after she had used it to place the correct bets on morning's
      Quidditch match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She got them all correct. Not even a bluff or two to make it
      look normal. And she had been doing it all season.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So to know the scores, all Harry had to do was to organize the
      bets of Zabini on the point level, had to tell him to place bets
      not only on the winner and loser, but for every single goal scored.
      That and a little hacking in the Floo Book to check whom did
      Bulstrode bet upon, and he knew the entire result before hand
      without even using his time turner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It went rather well, except that Dumbledore seemed to have
      figured it all out. A real problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry didn't get time to think on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The intensity of the gazes in the room thickened as Ravenclaw
      Quidditch Captain Roger Davies approached Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Harry, we know why you did it." Roger said " We were
      uncomfortable too with involuntary absorption of Sunshine and
      Dragon army. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" I appreciate your candour captain." Harry replied. " I would
      have expected nothing less from a Ravenclaw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I would expect nothing less than your trademark brilliance
      on the Quidditch field Harry. Your commentary today was excellent.
      Let's see if you can match the results on the field as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">May the best team win." Roger said extending his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" May the best team win " Harry replied and shook Roger's
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ravenclaw house burst with cheer. The game was on.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
