<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>12. Harry's Game - Harry's Game Chapter 8: Friendly Fire, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="12. Harry's Game"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Friendly Fire</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked along the corridor, already playing the Quidditch
      match in his head that others will be playing one month later. A
      voice behind him bludgered those thoughts away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Harry"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry turned with a start. The corridor was supposed to be empty,
      so when did Fred come behind him?<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Hey Harry"<br class="calibre4"/>
      Harry re turned with a fresh start. Now George was standing on the
      opposite side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">How did they sneak in? Invisibility cloak, unlikely, one was
      rare enough, two would be outside any decent probability.
      Disillusionment charm? No, too advanced. If Weasley twins knew it,
      Hogwarts would be a war zone by now. But, then.. Ah, of course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sidestepped and looked down. Fred and George were still
      standing with one foot on their broom. They must have been
      practicing outside in the grounds and flied in when they saw Harry
      crossing the corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice flying." Harry said " I didn't even hear you land. Madam
      Hooch should definitely pick you up for the senior team. Or have
      you been already picked and came to tell me the obvious?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry" George sighed "Harry, Harry" Fred continued and
      concluded.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "This feels all wrong. Its almost like in any reality we should
      have been playing from the same side."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "But you know us. If it's wrong we have got to do it."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Matter of principle you see. So don't take it personally when we
      come after you in this match."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "For we will come after you. We will be ignoring everyone else just
      to get to you."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "You better make it fun. Don't be crushed too easily."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "From now on, it's a war."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "No hard feelings then"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pure glee of malice on the twins' faces was a sight of
      marvel. It was rare to see so much happiness on a human face. Harry
      had trouble for a moment paying attention to the actual declaration
      of war.<br class="calibre4"/>
      " Are you sure guys?" Harry asked them." For I will pull no punches
      either if you are declaring war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is Quidditch Harry. You might be a good flier, you may
      even understand the theory of it better than anybody else but you
      have never yet played this game."<br class="calibre4"/>
      "So the question is are you sure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at both of them. This was going to be more fun than
      expected. He should really be thanking Professor Quirell for his
      brilliant injustice later on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. The real question is.." Harry said ".. do you know that a
      broom can listen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Fred and George said together. How did this even relate
      to the conversation?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are two ways to give command to a broom. One is by weight
      shifting, which we do while flying. And the other one is by voice
      commands. Like when we say 'up' to mount the broom and the broom
      listens if we really mean it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Of course we know it. This is the first thing taught in flying
      sessions"<br class="calibre4"/>
      "So?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So" Harry replied with an evil grin that made him look like the
      third twin. " I can do this"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Weasley twins it all seemed to have happened in a slow
      motion. Harry extended both his arms looking like some evil muggle
      messiah and then said in a calm booming voice. " Up!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two brooms flew from under the twins. The twins spun once in the
      air like vertical tops. A beautiful hyperbole was formed with their
      curved backs, just for a second. And then two thuds, travelling
      faster than an echo, ended the sudden slow motion for the twins who
      were on the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both brooms were now tucked in Harry's hand. The war so far
      wasn't going good for the twins and a look at Harry's grin, as seen
      from the ground, made them sure that it hasn't ended yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked over to the middle and placed the brooms in the air
      above twins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Down." He slowly said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twins didn't know there was a 'down' command too. They never
      checked it. Did anybody?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But they couldn't think further about it as their own brooms
      came down slowly and started to press against them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now they can't land" Harry said "because you are in the way, so
      not knowing what else to do they will keep pressing. At the same
      time, you can't move away because they won't stop pressing. Its
      something called deadlock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nice name, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that Harry walked away and twins heard him singing a
      song as he went:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"War! huh-yeah<br class="calibre4"/>
      What is it good for?<br class="calibre4"/>
      Absolutely nothing<br class="calibre4"/>
      Uh-huh"</p>
      <p dir="rtl" class="calibre6">-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sound of the song slowly faded and Twins began to escape
      from their own brooms inch by inch.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Catchy tune, huh." George said.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "We knew something like this might happen. Its ok, this had to be
      done." Fred said from under his own broom as he tried to move
      further sideways.<br class="calibre4"/>
      "Of course." George agreed, "Who wanted a friendly match."<br class="calibre4"/>
      They finally inched their way out from under their pressing brooms.
      The brooms finally landed and became inactive. Both stood together
      looking in the direction Harry had just gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We won't let you destroy Quidditch that easily. Because 'War',
      dear Harry.."George said<br class="calibre4"/>
      " ..means nothing unless it means everything." Concluded Fred.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
