<span id="seg-0567__seg-0567-d8e319eca8"></span>

<div class="calibre4">

<div id="seg-0567__chapter-6-6185d2c2be" class="calibre4">

Luna sat on the countertop, her mom cooking beside her. Her legs were swinging over the edge and she was chatting away as though she couldn't contain her exuberance.
"- and then me and Ginny went to the river. I was trying to show her how to catch Plimplys, like Dad showed me when I was littler, but she didn't get the hang of it. We had tons of fun, though!"
Pandora smiled. "That's nice, darling."
"How was your day? What are you cooking?"
"Don't be so quick, Luna. Asking too many questions at once leads to hurried and incomplete answers." With a twitch of her wand, a jar of pickles unscrewed itself, its contents arranging themselves on a cutting board. "So, which one is going to be first?"
"Your day! What did you do?"
"Always so curious. Well, I did some more work on the spell I'm trying to develop right now. Do you still remember what it was about?"
Luna thought for a second, face screwed in concentration. Then she got it. "You want to cast spells that cast themselves!"
Pandora chuckled. "Almost. I'm trying to cast spells that cast other spells, not themselves. The difference is vital. Have you understood why?"
Luna nodded, though she hadn't really understood. Mom's lectures where long and boring, most of the time. The other question was still on her mind, though. "Now tell me what you're cooking!"
Her mother smiled a sad little smile. "Luna, you could be so brilliant if you'd just learn to have a little more patience. Think longer about things and you'll really understand them. But I guess if you have food on your mind, it can be hard to think about spellwork. So!" She made a large, sweeping gesture that encompassed the countertop, with its three cutting boards, five small bowls of chopped vegetables and the small loaf of bread and reached to the stove, where water was already bubbling vigorously in a large pot. "Today marks the day of gurdyroot experiment number seventeen! I've pickled them for three years, starting this morning, thanks to a special little ageing charm. I'm going to be putting the pickles in some different salads and make a paste out of them, which we'll put on this bread as well as eat with rice, just to see what fits best. What do you say to that?"
Luna giggled. "I like your experiments. There's always so much different stuff! But dad has probably had enough of the gurdyroots by now."
At this, Pandora laughed. "You're right, Luna, your dad is a picky eater. He's hated almost every new ingredient I've put on our table, but in the end, I always manage to find a recipe he likes. And I don't think he wants me to stop just because the first sixteen experiments failed. After all, he's got to know by now that I don't mind a challenge."
"Well, if you say so. I don't know what's going on in his head."
Pandora let the cookware rest for a second and took Luna by the shoulders. "You've got to cut your dad some slack. Running a newspaper is harsh work, especially since he prints exactly what he wants to print. On a bad day, he's overworked, and even on a good day, he's tired. I know he seems a bit distant sometimes, but he loves you, Luna. Don't let it get you down, okay?"
Luna looked away, but answered obediently. "Yes, mom."
"Good girl", she said, gave a wide smile and mussed up Luna's hair.
"Mom! You know I hate that!"
"And you know I'm already restricting myself by not doing it every single second. You've got to let me have fun sometimes. Now, who wants to try a Gurdyroot cookie?"

Dinner was unremarkable. Like every day, Pandora put up a lavishly complex and completely original meal, which Luna had great fun with, while Xenophilius barely ate anything, his face buried in some proofs for his newspaper.
It would have taken a far more perceptive child than Luna to notice what Pandora hid behind her unwavering smile, and it was just as well that she didn't know. By not noticing how much her mother felt that she had failed in her duties every time her husband ignored her cooking, how often she felt that her housework was unappreciated, Luna kept herself happy. She never questioned just why Pandora created such extraordinary and eye-catching food at the expense of common sense as far as ingredients went, and she never thought about the spell research Pandora did in every available minute, which ate the few hours of rest and recreation she could have gotten every day.
Luna knew that her mother was extraordinary, but she accepted it as a fact of life. She never once asked herself how her mother had become who she was, or why.
In her later periods of introspection she would think about that, but by then, it would be far too late to do anything about it. She'd ask herself where she had gotten all the pieces to puzzle it out after the fact. Had she noticed her mother's smile fading when she thought nobody was watching? Had she maybe even seen her crying, seen her break down, repressing the memory afterwards? Maybe she had known all along and just chosen not to believe it.
After dinner, the day wound down like a tired clock. The sounds Xenophilius made while putting in some after-dinner work hours became quieter and less frequent. Pandora had, after washing the dishes, retreated into her study, where the only sounds she made were the scratching of quill on paper and, less frequently, the sizzling of sparks, when experiments were necessary. Even Luna lost some of the frantic energy of youth to exhaustion, and when her mother came to tuck her in, she was already half asleep.

That night, Luna had the nightmare for the first time. It started with her safe in her home, just playing, when she heard an insistent and ugly scratching sound. Her first thought was that a stray cat or a humdinger had gotten into the house, so she went to investigate. Following the sounds, however, led her nowhere.
She tried approaching from the kitchen, but the stove was in the way, and there was nothing in the oven. So she went through several doors, once around the ground floor of her tower-house, until she had found the sounds again in the living room. Now they were behind a couch, and Luna pulled it forward just enough to crawl behind. It took all of her strength.
When she realized that there was nothing behind the couch, either, fear began to rise in her. The sounds had to be coming from the wall, so it couldn't be a cat. Could there be rats in the walls? She darted out from behind the couch, getting as far away from the walls as possible.
The sound was getting louder, as though it was reacting to her fear. It conjured images of rats as big as Luna herself, with claws as long as her fingers. The claws were of yellow horn, shattered and dirty, and they were scratching at the inside of the walls. They were trapped there without light, but not for long; with every scrape, small chips of stone broke off the walls, and soon they would have made a hole. With the first fracture in the wall, it would only take them seconds more to pull apart the wall, breaking through, a mass of rotting fur and yellow teeth, tearing into Luna's flesh -
She felt the wall at her back. The fear had made her edge so far back that she was now standing at the opposite end of the room. Her heart beat even faster, leaping up into her throat. She had to escape, but she couldn't find the door, there was no door anymore, and the scratching was getting louder and louder until there was a loud
- crack -
and a single branching line appeared across the paint in the wall. For a startled second, there was complete silence, then the center point of the line bulged outward as claws emerged, forcing the wallpaper apart. But they weren't yellow, and they weren't dirty, they were iridescent, as though made of pearl with all the colours of the rainbow playing across them, and then some.
Now Luna's heart really threatened to burst. She had dreaded the rats, but she had expected them, and whatever this was, it was wholly unexpected and therefore even more terrifying.
The crack opened, and liquid darkness poured out. Luna could see only snatches of the thing inside, details that screamed of wrongness. Flesh slithered against rasping bone, five-pointed lips undulated and the only thing Luna could see clearly where those glowing claws, with colours that had tipped over so far into the realm of insanity that Luna's eyes pleaded for mercy.
It came for her with a slow, languid motion, folding space underneath it to accelerate, simultaneously stretching out time like honey until Luna's next heartbeat seemed impossibly far away, yet the claws were so close -
and she woke up. Her mother was already there, talking fast. Luna realized she was screaming and stopped, but her raging heart was not so easy to control. Cold sweat stood out on her skin.
It took some minutes until she had calmed down enough to tell her mother that she was okay and would be able to sleep again, alone, thank you very much, she wasn't a small child anymore.
After she had sent her mother away, the shadows of the moonlight flooding her room seemed darker, somehow. She clutched the covers tightly, trying to find solace in their warmth and familiarity.
She knew that the thing from her dream couldn't exist, even less so than giant rats in the walls. Yet, her scared mind reasoned, she had seen it in her dream, though she had never thought of it before. She tried to stop the train of thought, but it ran away from her. If it was in her dream without her having seen anything like it in the real world, it wasn't a cheap copy. It must have come from somewhere. Since it had somehow arrived in her dream, how could she know that it couldn't exit from there again, peeling away the wallpaper from the wall in front of her, emerging to eat her, this time for real? Or - and this thought was even worse, somehow - since it came from her head, shouldn't it peel away the skin from her forehead, bursting from her skull?
Luna felt at her forehead. It was wet with sweat, but there weren't any tears or bulges forming. The realization of how silly her thoughts were hit her, but the fear didn't go away.
It took a long time for Luna to go to sleep again.
For a few days, that dream became her nightly companion.

Finally, Luna had figured it out. She gathered together all her courage and knocked on the door to her mom's study. Pandora didn't like being interrupted,
"Mom, you shouldn't do it. It's not the right time to experiment."
Pandora put a hand on Luna's head and crouched down to face her. "Why, Luna?"
"I just... I just know! Please trust me!" Desperation had crept into Luna's voice.
Her mom just sighed. "I trust you, but you have to be more specific. What's going to happen if I go through with the experiment, and why?"
"I don't know exactly, but it'll be bad. I think you've made a mistake, or will make one. It's just a small thing, but combined with something you didn't even expect, it'll have terrible consequences."
"Luna, dear, that's not exactly what I meant by specific. Can't you describe the terrible fate you've seen in store for me?"
Luna took a long breath and tried to calm down. She didn't try to concentrate often, but this was an emergency. Finally, she found the right phrase to use. "The waves a sinking stone makes fill the entire pond. It's like this, but with magic."
Pandora tilted her head. "What's the pond in this metaphor? And where does danger come into it? Can't you explain everything a little more clearly?"
Luna had been scared of this question. "I can't - Mom, you would have to find out for yourself."
"Why?"
How could she explain this? She had sat down and thought today, really thought for the first time in her life and come to a set of answers, of deep fears which shouldn't be communicated since the thing from her dreams might hear her. Somehow, she knew that, no matter how terrible everything seemed right now, it would be far worse if it heard. She suspected that she shouldn't even be giving out hints about this, but this matter was too important to do nothing. Her mother was going to get hurt.
In absence of any real plan, she decided to try her trump card. "Mom, can't you see how scared I am? Shouldn't that be enough?"
Pandora's face grew soft at that, and she mussed Luna's hair up with real concern. "I see it, and I really want to do something about it. But this experiment's going to be really safe, I'll just be making lights. Would you want to watch?"
In truth, there was nothing in the world that Luna wanted to do less right now, but maybe, she would be able to do something to let her mom survive this. She bit on her lower lip and gathered her courage.
"I'll watch."
Pandora grinned. From her perspective, the problem must have seemed almost solved now: Luna would watch the experiment and nothing bad would happen. There would be no more fear afterwards. If she only knew, if Luna could only tell her.
Pandora gripped her wand lightly, and Luna's heart begin beating in earnest. Fear held her to the spot now, as solid as it had been in the dream. Silence stretched out the seconds. There were miles between Pandora's reassuring smile and Luna's worst fears, and she suddenly knew that this would be the last time she saw her mother's smile, no matter what she did now.
A single claw scraped across the inside of a wall. The rasping sound was ponderously slow, stretching across dozens of Luna's rapid heartbeats. Her mother heard it as well - one of her eyebrows quirked upwards, but she must have thought it to have been a creak in one of the many wooden beams holding the house together.
She swished her wand, cutting the empty space with a figure eight. There was no incantantion - there never was, for a newly developed spell, but the exact point of casting was obvious nonetheless. The tip of Pandora's wand touched the spot where it had begun, and she faltered, her knees buckling under her, her face suddenly grey.
"What -"
She cut herself off when she saw what she had brought into being. Instead of the harmless floating light she had expected, casting Lumos indirectly, there was a ripple in the air, like heat shimmering in the middle of summer. In waves, it propagated outwards, until it filled the entire room and Pandora's hands seemed distorted before her eyes. Something had gone terribly wrong, and the Finite was on her lips before she had thought about it, but she somehow couldn't dispel this. Her mind raced through possible hypotheses. She had cast the spell indirectly, so she might not get recognized as the caster, and then it could be too powerful to get dispelled. Or maybe she wasn't even seeing the spell itself right now, and its secondary effects were immune to a Finite. Maybe the problem was even -
But at that point she had to cut herself off again, since the centre of the distortion had just blossomed into a spot of pure, abstract black which bled into the air like ink in water. From the centre emerged a single iridescent claw and a thing pulled itself through the hole, the like of which she had never seen. She heard Luna scream and determination filled her. Whatever that thing was, it was not going to get her daughter.
She readied a barrage of spells inside her mind and began casting, her wand stabbing and slashing, bolts and blades and chains of light flying through the air. It was harder than normal, and she could feel the spells dying in the distortion that still filled the room. By the time they had reached the darkness around the thing, they were dim and weak, disappearing on contact. She realized that this was a foe she could not face. With a single slash of her wand she brought down the anti-apparition jinx around her home, using a backdoor she had installed on a particularly paranoid day. She tried to grab Luna's arm, but suddenly, the room was immense and Luna was impossibly far away. Behind her, she could feel space folding. So much had happened in this single second that the feeling of the claw in her back, while novel, didn't even register. She tried to disapparate, tried to think of more powerful, more destructive curses, but she could feel her magic dying.

Luna was different after that day. No one, not even her father, could get more than a few words out of her about what happened. As it was obvious that she was traumatised, no one dug too deep. They hoped that she would learn to deal with what had happened on her own, and that she would talk when she was one day ready.
The Auror Office launched an investigation, but stopped it after it became obvious that a spellcrafting incident had occurred. After all, there were no known curses which could have twisted Pandora Lovegood's body until it fit into the volume of a golf ball. Her remains were shipped to the department of mysteries, along with her research notes, which the Aurors had sealed into a seamless sphere of titanium on scene.
At the department of mysteries, an Unspeakable opened the sphere and read the notes, to determine that none of the cited references needed to be pulled out of circulation. Though many of Pandora's ideas were groundbreaking, the Unspeakable wasn't curious or interested in them, since that would have been against protocol. Instead, he consigned them to a flickering blue flame which had been burning beneath the Ministry far longer than he had been alive. Protocol was satisfied, and Pandora Lovegood's work soon forgotten.

</div>

</div>
