<span id="seg-0444__seg-0444-7306f5e061"></span>

<div id="seg-0444__s4-cf02869b10" class="calibre4">

</div>

<div class="calibre4">

# Chapter 4: Unexpected Result

<div id="seg-0444__storytext-9c93142583" class="calibre4">

June 17th, 1993

Lord Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, accompanied by Mad-Eye Moody and an auror trio, grew more and more tired as the Stop-Death Day - or Potter-Granger Day - International Celebration Convention went on. As far as Harry could tell, so was Lady Hermione Granger, who was currently surrounded by three Ministers of Magic from three countries and three body guards.

Eyeing the watchful auror trio behind Hermione as well as Madam Bones who was not too far away from Hermione, the Boy-Who-Live sighed inward. When he came up with the "Hermione defeated Voldemort" story in a haste, and rushed to save every dying wizard with the Stone, he did not quite foresee this. For all that he had been the Boy-Who-Lived ever since the fateful Halloween night, he had never been a subject of sudden assaults by adult wizards besides his mortal enemy, Lord Voldemort. He thought, at that time, since Lord Voldemort was sealed, and Hermione was protected by the powers of a troll and a unicorn, the Girl-Who-Revived should be at least safe.

Unfortunately, a lot of wizards, groups, and nations apparently wanted the power of the Stone to be controlled by themselves.

There had been people claiming to be Master Flammel's decedents, therefore holding legal rights over the Stone. The Irish Ministry of Magic had claimed that the Stone was made by none other than Merlin, and Merlin was born in Ireland (which all British wizards fiercely contested), so that the Stone should belong to Irish people. Goblins showed a contract from the fourteenth century between Master Flammel and goblins, claiming that part of the Stone was made by goblins (which Harry suspected to be a plot by Perenelle to pretend to have made the Stone); therefore, after his death, the Stone should belong to goblins.

Those kinds of laughable attempts were the ones Madam Bones could easily defeat. But then there were ones much harder to fight.

Russian Council of Magic, Chinese Magical Standing Committee, Brazilian Ministry of Magic, and magical authorities from many other countries claimed that the Stone was a treasure of the entire wizarding world, therefore should be studied by magic masters all over the world when it was not in use. Department of Magic of the United States of America, Wizarding Collation of Commonwealth Nations, and European Confederation of Wizards fiercely contested that idea, claiming that British wizards had already been very generous in sharing the service of the Stone, and should not be pressed to share the secrets of the Stone with anyone or any country. However, these "allies" also discretely expressed their particular interest in sending their top magical researchers to "guard" the Stone.

If this happened when Harry still believed in sharing knowledge, peer reviewed journals, and citations, he would probably agree to form an international research group to study the Stone and tried to mass-produce it. However, he knew now that some knowledge could be dangerous, and one needed to guard those secrets. Therefore, Madam Bones firmly refused all such requests.

The problem was, Madam Bones was not Albus Dumbledore, the most powerful wizard in the world. At least, when Dumbledore said no, no SANE wizards would challenge his judgement that certain knowledge was dangerous, and few would dare to challenge violently. When it came to Madam Bones, who was never on the same level as Dumbledore or Voldemort, even some more intellectually competent wizards might challenge her judgement. Harry had wanted to tell the world that it was his judgement, but that idea was firmly denied by Hermione, Mad-Eye, and Madam Bones.

To the lack of raw power and credibility problem, the German Ministry of Magic secretly proposed a "solution". Gellert Grindelwald, the former dark lord whom Dumbledore defeated, who was also currently the most powerful and knowledgeable wizard in the world, agreed to take an Unbreakable Vow of any contents that would satisfy British Ministry of Magic, Boy-Who-Lived, and Girl-Who-Revived, so that he could help to guard the Stone, and to rescue Dumbledore from Time. In order to gain their trust, the Germans even revealed that Grindelwald and Dumbledore had been secret lovers when they were young. Madam Bones verified the affair herself; and Mad-Eye, who knew Dumbledore for more than a hundred years, reluctantly labeled it as a "youthful foolishness by Albus". No matter whether the former dark lord who conquered half of Europe and used muggles in concentration camps as sacrifices to keep himself invincible had some hidden agenda or not, Harry did not think adding Lord Grindelwald to the equation would really prevent the world from being destroyed.

Sometimes, Harry was surprised that a magical world war had not started already, and magical authorities from major countries all over the world exercised amazing self-constraint in keeping all the quarrels behind closed doors. On the surface, it was still all flowers, smiles and handshakes. Maybe the magical world did learn something from their practices of keeping important secrets to themselves, and hiding magic out of the eyes of most muggles. Harry had no idea how long this peace could last, but he knew that if he stopped providing magical healing to the world today, the wizarding world war would not even wait until tomorrow to get started.

However, not every powerful wizard or witch or wizarding groups desiring the Stone was that discrete or peaceful. There were rumors that the Girl-Who-Revived absorbed some key ingredients of the Stone in her resurrection. It was a known fact that the ancient wards of Hogwarts were very hard to challenge, but an underage girl in Hogwarts uniform was a much easier target. Until this day, Hermione had went through at least 11 kidnaps. Fortunately, in all those attempts, the attackers had been overpowered by armies of powerful masters from all over the world within seconds, as if they were waiting for such events, so they could be on the good books of Girl-Who-Revived. And Harry was not sure if some of those "saviors" plotted the whole episode themselves. Unfortunately, in the third attack or so, Hermione had been seen in public to heal miraculously fast. This just fueled the rumor like wild fire.

Harry initially wanted to spread the rumor that HE had absorbed the essence, but soon stopped himself there, because he literally could not take ANY risk for the safety of the world.

What made things worse was the fact that both Harry and Hermione's parents became targets for kidnaps. The Death Eaters did not attack the families of the Order after Dumbledore refused to ransom his brother, and Narcissa Malfoy was allegedly burnt dead alive in her bedroom. That was, of course, before Harry screwed everything up by giving up all his money and going in debt to save Hermione (though Harry got his money back later), and by giving back Draco his mother. Even if this very day, Harry could bring himself to watch his family and friends die (who Harry would resurrect later, of course), and torture the family and friends of his enemies to death in public (who Harry would resurrect later as well), it still would not work. Because previously, the Order of Phoenix was fighting a SANE Dark Lord who could REALLY control all his servants, and that was too high a standard for the random dark wizards or witches Harry faced nowadays.

The time and location of Professor Verres-Evans's lectures were public knowledge to all students in Oxford, and Dr. and Dr. Granger had advertised their business in a number of local newspapers. Previously, whatever powerful wards set up by Albus Dumbledore could not stop Lord Voldemort from finding Harry's home in a Yellow Page. Nowadays, Albus Dumbledore was no longer there to help, and there were plenty wizards who knew how to find out information in the muggle way. Therefore, both Harry and Hermione's parents had to leave their previously beloved professions and went into hiding.

Hermione's parents were both squibs, so they could use certain magical artifacts and do some menial work in the magical world. Dr. and Dr. Granger were so happy to have their only daughter back that they did not complain a single word about leaving their lucrative dental business, and became caretakers of Hogwarts.

Things were really bad for the Verres couple. Hogwarts was an OK place for a squib such as Mom, but there was a death trap almost in every corner for Michael Verres-Evans. Actually, this was no surprise at all, since Hogwarts was built in an era where wizards were persecuted by the muggles. Headmistress Minerva McGonagall had tried to make Hogwarts more muggle friendly, but there were limited things that she could do. For example, normally, the corridors in Hogwarts would not transform when someone was in or near it by some observation effect, but in the case for the ex-Oxford professor, the corridor would transform regardless, and could possibly crush him between two stone walls, maybe because the observation by a muggle did not count. And that's probably why when muggle parents are brought to Hogwarts, they were only allowed in a limited space. So Mom and Dad could not live in Hogwarts like the Grangers did. Even in their current hiding house, Dad could not find the house door after he stretched his legs in the garden. Mom and Dad loved Harry too much to complain, but Harry could see that a life of confinement did not suit them at all. Mom missed shopping and gossips in the neighborhood; and Dad, even if Harry could buy all the scientific journals and books for him, Dad still missed his research lab, his graduate students, and especially, his freedom.

These were complications that Harry did not foresee at all.

Sometimes, Harry did miss Lord Voldemort as an enemy. At least, the Dark Lord was sane, and he would do anything he could to prevent the world from being destroyed. As for the current ones, none of them was as powerful or as clever as Voldemort, but they had no idea what kind of danger they were creating. This was the time that Harry found chaos might be too dangerous for even him to deal with.

Harry continued to look around, and saw Draco was accompanied by a watchful Narcissa Malfoy and three body guards. The body guards were not aurors, but hired hit wizards who had taken Unbreakable Vows to protect their employer with all their might. As for the reason of their existence, of course, it was Harry. The fact that Harry returned Draco's mother back to him showed that Harry cared enough for him, and that amount of care was enough for getting Draco into danger after the second attempt to kidnap Hermione failed in August, 1992. Harry pondered if he should proclaim Draco as his enemy in public so he could keep Draco safe, but soon decided that might not fool the more shrewd enemies. So he had no choice but to keep Draco as his ally and friend, for he could not abandon Draco after already getting him into trouble in the first place. As for what would happen after Draco turned eighteen and remembered how Harry killed his father, well, for all Harry knew, if it were not for some wise political advises from Draco, he might had taken some quite stupid steps and caused a wizarding war already.

With some string-pulling, Draco had taken the OWLS two weeks ago together with the fifth year students, and he would formally become Lord Malfoy when the OWLS grades were out. Even the soon-to-be Lord Malfoy looked tired. For all the Malfoy trainings Draco got (which tragically ended last year around this time by Harry), the thirteen year old blond was possibly semi-ready for Wizengamot, but he was not prepared to play the game on the international level, especially, NOT on the level where he needed to help Harry stop a wizarding world war from happening.

Harry's inner Hufflepuff said: *And that, is what you did to your friends and friends' family.*

*Remember the multiplications?* The inner Ravenclaw said. *Whatever sufferings endured by a couple of third year students and their families are several orders of magnitudes lower than the happiness of hundreds of wizards and witches who are saved every day, not to mention they have friends and families as well.*

This time the inner Slytherin chose to back up Hufflepuff from another angle: *Are you sure your friends and friends' family's sufferings are not in vain? And the witches and wizards we saved would really enjoy their lives for longer than, say, a few more days? Maybe our choice to save them would lead to a wizarding world war, where some stupid muggleborn would transfigure enough antimatter to eliminate everyone on earth. Probably Perenelle, whom you accused of killing more people than anyone, did not use the Stone to save everyone for exactly this reason. Maybe she actually delayed the world's destruction until you screwed things up with all your good intentions.*

Before Harry could blame himself further, he remembered the stars, and he remembered all the scientists who looked upward and forward. Fire could kill people, but if ancient *Homo erectus* were too afraid to use fire, human brains would not evolve to what they are now, and there would not be any species that could understand themselves as *Homo sapiens*. Lightening could kill people and people were afraid of it for thousands of years, but without electricity which is what lightening is all about, there would not be the Second Industrial Revolution. And without the usage of electricity, Harry speculated that there would be several billion less people on earth, for there was no way that the agriculture productivity in the pre-Second Industrial Revolution era could feed approximately 5.6 billion people currently on earth. As for nuclear energy that the Dark Lord worried so much, Harry knew there were nuclear weapons, and there was the disaster in Chernobyl, but nuclear fusion might be the only way to solve the energy crisis once the world's oil got depleted, and it might be the best way to go to the stars without magic. Without taking risks, we human beings could not move forward. The Stone was probably something like fire, electricity, or nuclear energy, we just needed to be careful NOT to have ourselves destroyed before we could master it.

There, Harry turned his attention back to his PR campaign, so that one day, he would be in a better position to optimize the world.

</div>

</div>
