<span id="seg-0737__seg-0737-a757d0d2a8"></span>

<div id="seg-0737__s8-535ef5ca16" class="calibre4">

</div>

<div class="calibre4">

# Chapter 7: Life at Hogwarts

<div id="seg-0737__storytext-9c93142583" class="calibre4">

I don't know whether the changes to Hogwarts were good or bad, but as far as I can tell, the major result for me was that my first two years at Hogwarts felt... well, kind of normal, really. The parts of attending Hogwarts that were hardest to get used to were things like being away from home for so long and the transition to taking classes in a castle after years of attending a cement-block state school. Otherwise, aside from a few tidbits of real magic here and there, most of the classes weren't all that different from classes I had to take back in Muggle Britain.

The main exceptions were Charms and Flying lessons. I loved them both. Charms, taught by Professor Flitwick, had a far better ratio of wand-work to essays than Transfiguration class did. And Flying lessons? Who couldn't love that? I'm not all that good at keeping balance on a broomstick, but the view from up there is amazing. After years of practice, I'm finally to the point where my balance is almost good enough that I'll be able to start taking photographs from up there. The only thing I really didn't like about Flying lessons was that they were so closely integrated with the class on Battle Tactics and Strategy, which was sort of like a peculiar cross between Gym class and History. Well, I guess I also didn't really like the fact that most of my classmates mostly wanted to learn Broomstick-flying in order to try out for the Hogwarts Intramural Quidditch teams. I couldn't really connect with the apparent allure of Quidditch, which I've decided (after being dragged along to a few games by Ginny) is sort of like an aerborne version of Rugby, except harder to follow and rather more violent. I hear that (thanks once again to Harry and Professor Monroe) the rules to Quidditch had changed fairly dramatically since before my arrival, but I doubt I would have been much interested in the old version either.

Otherwise, as first years, we really don't get to do much magic at all. We did learn a little wand-work in Transfiguration with Headmistress McGonnagall, of course, but that material is so challenging that, especially during first year, hardly anybody could get even basic spells to work properly. I hear that Professor McGonnagall only agreed to take the Headmistress position on condition that she could still teach Transfiguration. I also hear that there wasn't much resistance to this proposal from the Hogwarts Board of Governors. Apparently very few witches and wizards are qualified to teach that material. In any case, outside of Charms and Transfiguration, I hardly got a chance to pick up my brand new oak and unicorn-hair wand at all.

The other first year courses were Herbology with Professor Sprout, Potions with Professor Snape, Basic Arithmancy with Professor Vector, and Fundamentals of Muggle Science with Professor Evans-Verres. Herbology and Potions were okay I guess, but not really my thing. Arithmancy is nearly identical to primary school Maths: easy, but not dreadfully exciting. Fundamentals of Muggle Science was a bit different from what I'd seen in primary school though. The class is sort of a cross between a science history class and an intensive course on the Scientific Method. I knew about the Scientific Method, of course, but Professor Evans-Verres teaches about it on a whole different level from the class science projects we used to do in primary school. His lectures are pretty dry though, and he uses a lot of big words. I mentioned this in a letter to Mum, and she said that all University Professors are like that.

Really, though, once I'd got over my initial awe with the idea that we were actually learning magic, the strangest part of Hogwarts classes during my first year was that Headmistress McGonnagall and Professor Evans-Verres attended each other's classes. I'm not sure which of the two Professors was more distracting as a visiting student. In Transfiguration class, Professor Evans-Verres was hard to ignore with his continual mutterings of, "Incredible!", "Fascinating!", and "But, how?" On the other hand, there's nothing quite as unnerving as attempting to pay attention in Muggle Science knowing that the Headmistress is sitting **right behind**you**, furiously taking notes. She's intimidating enough at the front of the classroom giving Transfiguration lectures (I'm sorry, Headmistress, but it's true!), but it's a whole other thing having her sitting silently behind you.

The second strangest thing about life at Hogwarts was having Wizardborn classmates continually asking for help with Science and basic Maths. I was always pretty good at Maths, but never the top of my class in primary school, and honestly, Professor Evans-Verres' class was a real struggle for me. Still, the Wizardborn students seemed to have never seen anything like either of them before, and the fact that I had any familiarity with either thrust me suddenly into a sort of intellectual elite within Hogwarts.

Which brings me around to explaining about Chaos Club, the weekly discussion group hosted by Draco Malfoy and Harry Potter-Evans-Verres in an abandonned classroom in the Slytherin Dungeons. Contrary to the name, Chaos Club is actually all about learning to think in a more organized way. Harry says that it's really all about Muggle Science, and I suppose he would know since his dad teaches that class, but really, we talk about all sorts of things in Chaos Club, and it's not always easy to see how they relate to course material.

The first meeting of Chaos Club turned out to be on the Saturday after classes started. I'd given one of my cards to Luna, and she met up with Ginny and me in the Great Hall after lunch. By the time we got down to the meeting place in the Slytherin Dungeons, the classroom was already packed with students from all seven years. All the desks were taken, so we sat on the floor. Everybody there spoke in hushed voices and I caught a couple of key phrases that kept being mentioned, including, "Fixus Everythingus," "Minister of Magic," "Poor old Dumbledore," "Boy-who-lived," and "Do you think he'll tell us how..."

By then, I had at least some general ideas of what these mutterings were about. After a week of classes at Hogwarts, I'd already gleaned that Harry was something of a major celebrity in Magical Britain. I mean, a really major celebrity, like. I mean, not just because he used to be closely mentored by the current Minister of Magic, or because he and Monroe had broken the previously understood boundaries of Magic, or even because he'd done all of these things before his 12th birthday. Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres was a celebrity in Magical Britain long before he even started at Hogwarts. Something about having survived a magical curse that kills everybody that it strikes. And there were rumours that there was some sort of a prophecy about him as well, though I hadn't been able to find out any details about that.

Despite all of the mutterings about Fixus Everythingus, I remember noticing that nobody in the classroom specifically refer to Granger, probably because they didn't know what Susan Bones and Daphne Greengrass would do in response. Students did occasionally turn to openly stare at the corner of the room where the three of them stood, however. Bones and Greengrass flanked Granger, glaring watchfully out at the crowd. It was obvious that they had cleared a small arc of floor around Granger, which the nearby students avoided fearfully. I wondered what sort of curse or jinx threatened people who crossed that invisible line. I sort of itched to snap a photo of the three of them, but thought it might be unwise. Instead, I raised myself up into a kneel and took a few shots of the packed classroom. Just then, a sort of a hush came over the room, and I turned to direct my lens at the door.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Author's notes:** Chapter 8 should be published on or before April 15, 2014.

</div>

</div>
