<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER ELEVEN, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s12" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: I don't say it often enough,
      but a big thanks to all the fine folks helping me alpha and beta
      this fic including Jim, Chuck, Sean, IP, JJ, Rob, and Chris. I'm
      probably forgetting some but the help is appreciated even if I
      don't say it every update. I do so enjoy getting reviews. Thanks
      for all of them and keep them coming.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry woke up with the feeling it was going to be a morning like
      any other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cracked an eye open and saw Luna Lovegood sitting up, staring
      at him with wide unblinking eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lost the little faith he had in his initial feeling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then quickly thought back to when he first saw the Luna of
      this world. She'd waved him over to her table but he had been
      pulled away. He remembered Sirius called for help and then he
      remembered… pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, not Ginny Weasley, Harry mentally corrected, <em class="calibre8">Gin</em>
      Weasley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Ginny is the name of a little girl who plays with dolls. A
      Ginny wants to be a princess. A Ginny wants to be saved by a knight
      in shining armor. A Ginny would get her pampered little ass kicked
      and thrown out of</em> MY <em class="calibre8">bar. There are very few people in
      this world I allow to call me that and neither of you are them. Can
      you remember that or do you need another reminder?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled in remembrance that about a half hour later Sirius
      had in fact received another reminder. Luna had joined them at the
      bar and they got to hear the story of how Gin beat Aberforth
      Dumbledore in a drinking contest and won herself a pub. And it had
      been Aberforth who had personally charmed the bar to make it easier
      for her to handle rowdy customers. Sirius made the mistake of
      asking for a demonstration and earned himself that second
      'reminder.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry recalled going to the mens' room and nearly making a mess
      as the pictures hanging above the urinals were apparently also
      charmed by Aberforth Dumbledore. Charmed to be action portraits of
      the faces made by the three most recent recipients of kicks from
      the charmed bar. So Harry had to try and pee straight while
      pictures of Sirius, Harry, and Sirius again all went pale,
      shivered, and had eyes that bulged out or rolled back up into their
      heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just about everyone in the bar had been greeted and served by
      name. Harry had come to the conclusion that even if he'd wanted to
      try and play the role of the indignant noble Lord then he'd
      probably have a whole pub of people with something to say about
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The most intriguing changes Harry noticed had been in Gin's
      attitude and character. He'd been extremely amused to see she was
      filled with strength, confidence, piss, and vinegar. Harry knew
      better than to mention it to the ghost haunting him, but he'd never
      been more attracted to any Weasley than when Gin looked at him
      indifferently. That was when he silently made a personal vow to
      never touch this Gin either. Primarily because it would make living
      with her ghost impossible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He clearly recollected Fred and George coming by and agreeing to
      a partnership with them. The Black family would finance a
      significant expansion in exchange for a third ownership stake in
      the company. Requesting custom creations was planned but not until
      a little further in the future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he remembered Luna saying something about the
      wuffwaffles in the air indicating it was the ideal time for
      enhancing the pleasure of intercourse. That was when Harry bid the
      three Weasleys and his godfather 'good night' and came back home
      with Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was where Harry's memories started to get really fuzzy. He
      remembered a crazed look in Luna's eye, small and furry purring,
      his own screams, and… something about friction inducing
      combustion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was drawn out of his short jaunt down memory lane by the
      voice he'd been replaying in his head. His eyes snapped open and he
      saw Luna was still sitting there topless just staring at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you remember me? I'm Luna," she indicated pointing towards
      herself. "Luna Lovegood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled at her peculiarity. "Yes, Luna. I definitely
      remember you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna smiled brilliantly. "I don't have much time here, but I
      must say it is very good to see you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You too," Harry agreed happily humoring her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh! Oh!" Luna gasped in realization. "Did you find your
      godfather?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tensed immediately, knowing that information was supposed
      to stay private. "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius? Your godfather?" Luna explained slowly. "You know, the
      reason you were working on the Exit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mind froze for a moment unsure what was going on. He
      squinted to look at her closer. "<em class="calibre8">Luna</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna frowned. "I thought you said you remembered me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's paranoia quickly downshifted into the 'What Would
      Mad-Eye Moody Do' gear. "Who did the commentary on my quidditch
      matches sixth year and who did I take to Slughorn's Christmas party
      that year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me and me," Luna answered before smiling back at him. "You
      don't have to prove it, Harry. If you say you remember me, I
      believe you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What… but…" Harry stopped, smiled, and lunged forward to catch
      her in a hug. "Luna! Why didn't you say anything before? Wait,"
      Harry leaned back to get a better look at Luna's expressionless
      expression. "You said you didn't know me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When did I say that?" Luna frowned trying to think back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Last night," Harry reminded, "at the bar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't go to any bar last night," Luna answered in confusion.
      "I went to bed and read great-great-great-aunt Thethpa's diary.
      I've been spending my morning trying out a theory of hers she could
      never prove. I'm still a bit skeptical though so that may be
      coloring my perception."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just looked at her trying to locate any identifying marks
      but got distracted by her bare breasts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might be confusing me with the Luna native to this world,"
      Luna explained before sticking a hand under the sheet testing her
      soreness. "Did you have sex with her last night? Because my vagina
      feels extraordinarily tender."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded slowly before warily asking, "Luna, what have you
      done?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna pulled her fingertips away from her nose when she realized
      she'd been caught smelling. "Since I last saw you? That's a pretty
      long list and if this is in fact a different dimension, I think you
      should forgive me for not having brought my photo album."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean how did you get here," Harry clarified. "And why aren't
      you the Luna I met last night?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's one of Thethpa's theories. Right now, I suppose, I am
      possessing this world's Luna," Luna answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "You're possessing the Luna of this world?
      How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I understand it," Luna tapped her chin. "You know how you
      sometimes daydream? Or imagine how things could be different in
      your head?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well when you do that, according to crazy aunt Thethpa, you're
      actually possessing yourself in another world. Her theory is that
      certain people can control it and stay in those worlds a bit longer
      than their subconscious minds intend to," Luna explained before
      pondering aloud. "I'm still not sure if I buy that. But I suppose
      if I don't then you're just a figment of my imagination.
      <em class="calibre8">And</em> I suppose I may have sacrificed another of the
      neighbor's cats unnecessarily."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to picture what his life would be like if he were a
      figment of Luna's imagination. After several seconds where he was
      unable to come up with a difference, he figured he wasn't going to
      like the answer. "Okay," Harry paused once more and when nothing
      came to mind, decided to address Luna's earlier question. "And yes,
      I found Sirius. He was trapped in between this world and our old
      one for almost ten years. But he's doing real well now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's wonderful," Luna smiled. "I told Hermione I was sure you
      were with him, but I was just saying that to get her to stop
      crying. I'm glad you didn't make a liar out of me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Harry suddenly realized he could get some answers to
      questions about his former world. "How is she doing? How's everyone
      doing? Did I get a funeral or are people trying to get me
      back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna shook her head. "The Ministry said it was too dangerous an
      artifact to keep around and that you nearly destroyed the arch when
      you got sucked in. Hermione thinks the Minister just didn't want
      you coming back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was guessing Hermione was probably right. "It was
      crumbling as I tried to hold on so it might have imploded. But
      still, I don't think I'd want to come back anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good new world?" Luna asked cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned and nodded back. "No one knows me, well, that's
      not quite right. No one knows the Boy-Who-Lived. And just the other
      day I joined the Wizengamot and got to stab a guy. It's a lot more
      fun to be on the stabber side than the stabbee."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really," Luna said filing that information away. "I'll have to
      try that sometime. It does give me an excuse to track down Cho…"
      she trailed off deep in thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So come on, how's everyone holding up? Hermione? The Weasleys?
      Minerva? Remus and Tonks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna shrugged. "Hermione cried a lot, but I think she was happy
      for you. The Weasleys felt kinda bad both because you were gone,
      and also Ginny was really gone now. Ronald was angry though that
      may be how he grieves. But really? I thought your death was rather…
      anti-climactic. No new Dark Lords suddenly appeared, no strange
      magical phenomena, not even an outbreak of green-eyed black-haired
      babies claiming themselves heirs to the Potter name. Well, yet
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Harry agreed. "Do me a favor and let people know
      I'm happy and healthy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Luna answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Harry asked. "Can you teach them to possess
      themselves? They could drop in for a visit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna stroked her chin in thought. "I doubt it.
      Great-great-great-aunt Thethpa could never do it. The only person I
      can think of that might be capable of managing the theoretical
      magic would be you. And you don't have a body in our world anymore.
      You're dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why just me and not the others?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if they were willing to pay the… erm, <em class="calibre8">costs</em>
      involved," Luna carefully worded. "We're still talking about magic
      across dimensions. And we know Ron, Hermione, and Neville didn't
      even hear any voices in the Exit. Besides, the more we talk, the
      more I'm convinced this is all my imagination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, wanting to argue but trying to avoid any
      universe-shattering realizations. "So… umm… what else is new in my
      old world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna turned to make sure she had Harry's attention. "Listen
      Harry," she glanced at the clock. "I'm going to wake from this
      magical coma in about forty more minutes and I don't particularly
      want to spend the rest of my time with you trying to subtly
      convince me that you're real."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am real, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you think you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pouted for a moment before conceding, "Fair enough." Harry
      sat up to face her. "What would you like to do for the next forty
      minutes in this world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna sighed shaking her head. "This is my imagination and I
      sought you out, Harry. What do you think people use their
      imagination for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Harry said before realizing, "<em class="calibre8">Ohhh</em>. Really? I
      thought that was just guys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna swung her leg over straddling him and smiled dangerously.
      "You poor, naïve child."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shortly thereafter, Harry regained some of his fuzzier memories.
      And the screams started up again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Approximately thirty-nine minutes later, Harry and Luna
      collapsed against each other, entwined like a sweaty flesh
      pretzel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Luna mused as her time was running out. "That was…
      exactly like I expected it to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned his head to look at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna shrugged. "I'm sorry Harry but Thethpa's theory is clearly
      just a fool's dream. And you are only a figment of my imagina-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was about to retort when Luna's head just fell forward and
      slapped against Harry's chest. It was approximately two seconds
      later that she began to snore, and Harry felt a drool puddle begin
      to form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Luna of his old world was gone. And the Luna of this world
      seemed quite tired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully extricated himself from underneath Luna and gave
      her a large pillow to snuggle. He put on some pajama pants and
      quietly left the room. He walked down the steps and was going to
      the kitchen when he heard voices coming from the den. He turned
      around and caught traces of a heated conversation. He spotted the
      floating spectral form of Ginny Weasley facing away and wondered
      why she hadn't come to say hello to Luna.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not so much that I slept with him <em class="calibre8">because</em> he's
      Lord Black, as it is in <em class="calibre8">spite</em> of the fact that he's Lord
      Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew the voice was familiar but couldn't quite place it.
      He reached the den and stuck his head in to see who it was. He
      blinked. "Fuck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's the lovebird," Ginny greeted with a wide smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aw fuck," Harry repeated glancing between the ghost and the
      witch. "Fuck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who… him?" Gin the-very-much-not-a-ghost Weasley said, shaking
      her head. "That's Harry. He's <em class="calibre8">not</em> the Lord Black I slept
      with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry heard the words and saw the ghost visibly pale. "Aw
      fuck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre8">what</em>?" Ginny whispered dangerously, her
      incorporeal state shivering in air. "But… you… I… oh dear… my
      heart… Harry… I'm having a heart attack… Harry. Help me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a ghost," Gin reminded the overdramatic apparition. "You
      don't even have a heart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oooo," Ginny steamed, positioning herself behind Harry. "Don't
      hold me back, sweetie. Let me at her! Come on!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the ghost was pretending to reach forward while being
      supposedly restrained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a <em class="calibre8">ghost</em>," Gin repeated incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was seething. "I lied! That haircut looks horrible!" She
      snarled at what she felt to be an abomination to the Ginny Weasley
      name. "And you're fat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry kept turning his head between the ghost over his shoulder
      and the proprietor of the Hog's Head on his left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My Harry's going to kick your ass," Ginny snapped pointing
      angrily at Gin. "And he's going to obliviate you. And he's going to
      give me your body. And together, we're gonna spit on your-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny," Harry interrupted knowing he'd let this go on long
      enough. "Get out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ghostly Ginny turned towards Harry, looking shocked and
      heartbroken. "But…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go!" Harry snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a small poof and the ghostly form of Ginny popped into
      dust. Harry sighed and saw Gin Weasley resting comfortably on the
      couch. He winced. "There's a very good explanation for what just
      happened."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure there is," Gin retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes. "Out of curiosity, just how much did she
      tell you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not too much," Gin wryly commented. "But apparently we're going
      to have black and white magical roses in the centerpieces at our
      wedding reception… as Mr. and Mrs. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry flinched. "Fuck." He sighed knowing what he distastefully
      had to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, I-" Gin stopped when she saw Harry draw his wand.
      "Whoa!" She snapped out her own wand and held it steady in front of
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not going to hurt you," Harry said moving towards her. "But
      you're better off not knowing some things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop right there," Gin ordered, quickly casting a shield around
      herself and turning her body sideways into an alert dueling
      position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry caught her gaze and encountered immediate resistance to
      his gentle attempt at <em class="calibre8">Legilimency</em>. A little mental nudge
      and he discovered the start of her conversation with ghostly Ginny.
      Knowing now that he had all the mental distraction necessary, he
      quickly shattered her magical shield, twisted her wand straight
      from her grasp and used the remaining four magical arms to grab
      Gin's wrists and ankles, holding her in place in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bugger me," Gin swore with wide eyes as she was pinned and held
      in the air. She hadn't even seen a spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is for your own good, as much as mine," Harry assured her,
      preparing to cast a memory charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait! Wait!" Gin pleaded. "Hang on. Just hear me out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry allowed his wand arm to relax while he pulled her close to
      hover right in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin," Gin breathed out as she was pulled through the air
      with just a thought. She looked at Harry and cautiously asked,
      "You're actually hearing me out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Contrary to what you might think, I'm not an
      enemy. And I like you well enough, considering I just met you last
      night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Gin answered, feeling especially vulnerable. "I got the
      impression you're a regular chivalrous hero, though I think she
      might have been exaggerating a bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry figured that was an understatement but added, "You know
      the more we talk, the more I'm going to have to obliviate from
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't. That's what I'm saying. Don't obliviate me. I was
      thinking I could give you a conditional oath. Keep me magically
      unable to spill your secrets, rather than risk a charm I'd probably
      notice and eventually break."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered it for a moment, just looking at Gin. "I think
      perhaps you underestimate my skills at memory charms, but what sort
      of conditions are you looking for in an oath?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing huge, just something like as long as you're not
      committing any heinous crimes or making me an accomplice to
      something, as well as maintaining a good business relationship with
      my brothers, I won't reveal your secrets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry set her down and released her but kept her wand still out
      of reach. "I'm not sure if you've heard any of my opinions on the
      current state of affairs in the Ministry, but some things others
      might officially call <em class="calibre8">heinous</em> crimes, I may be a big
      proponent of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what conditions are you looking for?" Gin said more than
      willing to negotiate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry figured she just wanted assurance she wouldn't be in
      danger. "As long as I don't curse you, you can't talk about
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin shook her head. "I'm not that naïve. I've heard about your
      skill, or lack there of, with a sword so we're not limiting it to
      cursing. And being unable to talk about you at all would be too
      obvious. What if as long as you never mean harm to me, my family…"
      She paused for a moment before adding, "Or innocents in general
      then I can't tell anything about you, that is otherwise
      unknown?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Otherwise unknown is too vague. Change it to anything I don't
      allow you to and we'll even remove temptation from you," Harry said
      knowing conditional oaths could be unbreakable unlike those sworn
      on life or magic. Those could easily be broken at the cost of the
      oath-bound's life or magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled slightly when he saw Gin reluctantly nod. He
      floated her wand right in front of her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin took her wand and for a moment considered making a break for
      it before catching Harry's amused glance once more. She quickly
      swore her conditional oath to be unable to share anything about
      Harry that he didn't allow her to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry relaxed considerably once he saw the tendril of magic form
      into a bond. It shrank smaller than his eye could see, but he could
      still feel its presence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin put her wand away and sat back down. "You know my oath
      didn't say anything about Sirius…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew she was demonstrating her trustworthiness by
      voluntarily offering that information but he still remarked back,
      "You know I can still obliviate you and not mean you any harm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Touché," Gin conceded before falling into an awkward silence.
      "So… are we cool now? Or…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lovely." Gin boldly demanded, "So what the hell was that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Taking my wand and holding me up in the air like that. It felt
      like hands were actually around my wrists."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was just magic," Harry answered in an attempt to avoid the
      question. "You want some breakfast?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not going to tell me, are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled and jerked his head towards the kitchen. "Come on.
      Just because you're keeping my secrets doesn't mean I've got to
      tell you all of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin had tended bar long enough to know she was more likely to
      get answers if she didn't press for them. She nodded in
      understanding and walked with Harry down towards the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what are you doing up so early?" Harry asked as he began to
      make enough breakfast for himself, Gin, and Luna. "And in that room
      too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin shrugged. "Running the bar means I'm nocturnal. We're still
      a good hour from my usual bedtime. And I was in that room looking
      for something to read before a certain ghost tried to possess my
      body and I quote, merge our pure untainted souls."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced and chose to skip over the metaphorical elephant in
      the room. "I doubt there was much worth reading in there. Some of
      those old books are cursed pretty nasty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I avoided the shelf with the tray to catch dripping blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a good shelf to avoid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pair fell into an easy camaraderie and Harry saw glimpses of
      the friend he had in Ginny prior to her death. He figured tending
      bar made her a better than average conversationalist and was
      beginning to like the idea that he could spill any secrets to a
      welcoming ear and know magically, they were protected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, he still planned to kick Sirius' ass for managing to
      find someone even worse to bring home than the Director of Magical
      Law Enforcement.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Oww!" Sirius yelled jumping up. He picked up the pine cone
      that had made its way onto his recliner in the brief seconds he'd
      been out of it. "Dammit Harry! I said I was sorry."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just quietly hummed, while looking through the omnioculars
      at the solid walls surrounding the Malfoy land.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You keep this up much longer and I'd swear you're jealous,"
      Sirius added with a smirk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A pine cone came mysteriously flying off the ground and beaned
      Sirius in the back of the head. "Oww!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Sirius said rubbing his head. "Not jealous, just
      PMSing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled the omnioculars away from his eyes and looked over
      at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been good," Sirius claimed. "We cleaned out Simmons place,
      got back all our ward eaters, made over twenty thousand galleons,
      and haven't spent a knut."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You left that 'After Dark Mark' of the Death Eater Bandits
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's our signature," Sirius argued. "And besides, if they
      hadn't printed the picture in the paper, you'd never have known so
      that doesn't count."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't really care but felt he had to needle his godfather
      about something. He handed Sirius the omnioculars. "It doesn't look
      too inviting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took the omnioculars and gazed through them. "You weren't
      kidding about locating the right frequency. I count at least a
      dozen different ward sets all within separate parts of the larger
      ones extending past the wall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry answered. "Turn the magic knob to max and the overlay
      completely off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius pulled the omniculars away and set the two dials as Harry
      suggested. He looked through them at the Manor again. "What am I
      looking for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Notice the murky green covering all of the basement and
      dungeons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mmm-hmm," Sirius affirmatively replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's similar to the color of magic the Dark Mark flashes when
      he issues a summons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked over at Harry. "What's that mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Could mean anything, but it's not a color I've
      ever seen in wards before. And we're way past my current
      understanding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Worst case scenario, what do you think it is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It detects for the Dark Mark, it alerts everyone with a Dark
      Mark, or at least, Voldemort, it allows people in but not out, it
      neutralizes our magic, it kills us instantly. Take your pick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what then?" Sirius asked while looking through the
      omnioculars again. "We loot everywhere else but those parts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's also a dark red ward over the entire guest house and
      several other areas," Harry added. "Another color that's new to
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we avoid those too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "I don't know if you can tell, but there's
      a large compartment under the drawing room floor. That's one of the
      places with the really good stuff. I think it might be a
      blood-warded safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you're not saying we should do nothing to that pompous
      twit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to steal from him as much as you do," Harry explained.
      "But I think we'd be better off doing this job later, once we have
      a bit more experience and hopefully knowledge on our side."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned not wanting to say anything he might regret.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You may notice the three main bubble wards are all solid and
      round: no gaps, no corners, no weak spots, and all over a meter
      apart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded after resetting the dials and viewing with the
      mansion once more. "Didn't those new charmed thingies you bought
      allow us to extend beyond the limit of a meter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep," Harry agreed. "But that's not the point. The distance
      separating them is a clear indication that they're up to date on
      the tricks ward-breakers use."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean it, Padfoot. I want to rob Malfoy. And I want to trash
      his place. But we should stick with what works and learn more as we
      go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sighed and tilted his chair back. "We still gotta stay
      here and do the homework though, don't we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know the answer to that," Harry said, flipping open his
      trunk. He reached down into it and grabbed a pair of chilled
      butterbeers. He handed one to Sirius and popped the top of the
      other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a slow sip, while looking toward the Malfoy grounds.
      "Do you want to talk ideas on cracking this place? Or something
      other than work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Other than work," Sirius answered. "My brain's going to be
      refusing to brainstorm for a bit. Tell me something I don't
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't know," Harry said. "So many options…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're hilarious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I got one for you. Did you know we're just figments of Luna's
      imagination?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced at Harry and saw he was smiling. "I must admit, I
      did not know that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not this world's Luna, but the Luna of our original dimension,"
      Harry clarified. "She told me herself last week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Sirius interjected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Luna from our old world talked to you last week? Wait, the one
      who spent the night?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually it was just for an hour in the morning that she
      possessed the Luna of this world and took advantage of me. But
      before our acts of depravity she caught me up on our old world a
      bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're kidding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Harry said sipping his butterbeer. "She told me they
      destroyed the Veil to make sure I couldn't come back, and that
      everyone seemed to be doing okay. She violated me in a wonderful
      way and then informed me that I, and by extension this entire
      dimension, was figment of her imagination."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you really think that was her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Oh yeah. No question in my mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius gave an approving nod. "I bet she's a blast at
      parties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For freaking others out without even trying, she's in a class
      of her own. Now it's your turn," Harry said. "Tell me something I
      don't know about you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took a moment, trying to think of something. "Cankles
      scare me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry asked unsure he heard that right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cankles," Sirius repeated. "You know those scary girls whose
      ankles are so thick they blend right into their calves? All the
      Holyhead Harpies have some scary cankles. Actually most female
      Quidditch players have cankles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And they scare you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grimaced. "Well, they're a hideous disfiguration, and
      usually indicative of the sort of girl who could kick a bloke's
      arse. Gin's aren't quite cankles, but they were close enough to
      remind me of my fear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a picky pervert," Harry decided taking another sip of
      his butterbeer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I got one for you," Sirius said after his mind had strayed
      towards ways to circumvent the Malfoy wards. "Why haven't you
      become an animagus? You said you'd tried."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a good point," Harry realized. "Maybe I should try
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How exactly have you tried and failed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I've read a couple of the books. I've done the
      practice exercises. I've searched inside for my spirit animal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you try the potion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Black or white mist?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither," Harry said shaking his head. "Grey mist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Erm… my memory is a bit rusty. I thought black mist is for
      those without the ability."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And white mist is when your form's undecided?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or when you're too young to accept your animal side, if you
      favor MacArthur's interpretation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned and looked at Harry. "So what does grey mist
      indicate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grey indicates I'm yet another exception to the rule," Harry
      retorted. "I've talked it over with Minerva several times, and she
      had a theory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Killing Curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was slightly impressed. "Wow Padfoot. It's good to see you
      thinking like McGonagall. And yeah, considering my circumstances,
      she thinks the Avada may have killed my spirit animal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think like McGonagall," Sirius pouted. "So no animagus
      for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Not yet, but I'm going to try again.
      Because you know how some people can't tame their animals but can
      be put into enchanted sleeps to try and stay there long enough to
      mess with them? She dropped me into one for an hour and I was
      bodiless in the grey mist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you saw something coming through the mist?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sort of," Harry admitted. "I saw what looked like… well,
      someone. I thought it was me. But the form never fully solidified.
      I think I might have just left my body and turned around to look at
      it through the mist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked up, deep in thought. "Maybe you're not human. You
      could be a flobberworm and your humanimagus form is Harry
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Humanimagus form?" Harry tried out the word doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're an octopus!" Sirius realized. "That's why you have the
      arms!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not an octopus," Harry assured him. "I can make dozens of
      arms, not just eight. And I'm kinda doubting that I've spent my
      entire life in my humamamagus form or whatever. Though I should
      thank you for the mental image of my mum giving birth to an
      octopus. Besides, after those mixed results, Minerva put me in
      enchanted sleeps a half dozen more times. All I've seen is grey,
      sometimes it's kinda silvery but I've not seen any form since the
      first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could you be a demiguise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over at Sirius in surprise. "I hadn't thought of
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean you do kinda look ape-like and you could've been
      invisible all the other times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry harrumphed. "I'll let that one slide because you actually
      had a decent idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have some indecent ideas too," Sirius offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ignored him. "I think I'm overdue to try an animagus
      potion again, this time seeking out a demiguise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if that doesn't work," Sirius said. "I could put you in an
      enchanted sleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry skeptically replied. "Or maybe Moony could put me
      in an enchanted sleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A demiguise would be a great form for a thief," Sirius said.
      "Could turn yourself invisible at will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled hopefully. "Now that you mention it, I am craving a
      banana."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know a banana-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keep your indecent ideas to yourself, Padfoot," Harry
      interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius opened and then closed his mouth. After a couple seconds
      of silence he added, "I think that's all of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two continued chatting amicably for two hours through the
      twilight and as the sun set. Sirius was trying to make his
      impatience as clear as possible without giving in and actually
      asking if they could call it a day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat the omnioculars back down. "You about ready to get out
      of here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh thank Merlin," Sirius readily agreed jumping to his
      feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can go," Harry smirked. "Just as soon as you tell me how to
      get into Malfoy Manor, disregarding the wards we can't
      identify."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit Harry," Sirius whined trying to come up with something.
      "I don't have any idea short of simply stretching a hole in every
      layer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "And from the looks of just the outer ones that'd
      take about a month assuming it didn't get noticed within an
      hour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which knowing the twit, it would," Sirius insisted. "Honestly,
      I think our only hope is going to be getting Lucius to add us to
      his wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure how open to that idea he'd be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'd have to ask him real nice," Sirius argued. "And it would
      take away some of the subtlety and elegance associated with the
      Death Eater Bandits."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Feels like cheating too," Harry said. "But for Lucius, I expect
      I could overlook that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded before turning on his puppy dog eyes. "Can we go
      now? Please?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry agreed tossing everything they'd brought with them
      back into his trunk. He shrunk his recliner and Sirius' too
      dropping them in. "We've got enough info on these wards to try and
      figure something out. But tomorrow we should begin the preliminary
      work on Burke and Darcy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tomorrow," Sirius whined, drawing out the word. "Haven't we
      earned a day off?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I won't make you work if you don't want to," Harry said making
      sure everything was packed up, before beginning to dismantle the
      Fidelius. "But I'll probably be doing some shadowing and intel
      gathering like a good, subtle, and elegant Death Eater bandit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you want me to feel guilty, but I don't," Sirius stated
      hoping it'd keep Harry from working tomorrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Charm is coming down. Apparate to Diagon Alley
      first in case someone tries to trace us." The anchor stones of
      Fidelius charm all crumbled inwards and the hidden square of space
      flashed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two soft pops and there was no sign of their former
      presence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked to the entrance of the Leaky Cauldron and apparated
      back to Grimmauld Place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right when they arrived next to the bookcase blocking Mrs.
      Black's portrait in the foyer, Harry silently held up a hand to
      stop Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?" Sirius whispered drawing his old driftwood
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone's here," Harry said testing the wards over their home.
      "And it's not Tonks or Moony." He pointed Sirius towards the living
      room while Harry quietly went to check the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stuck his head into the living room and couldn't believe
      his eyes. She was looking straight at him, so he attracted Harry's
      attention by loudly spitting out the name, "Bellatrix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was by Sirius' side immediately and barely recognized the
      far more attractive Death Eater. Harry doubted she'd spent any
      significant time in Azkaban. "She's alone," Harry assured Sirius
      while loosely aiming his own holly wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Bla-" she began right as the first spell was fired her
      way. A smooth practiced motion and a pink humming shield snapped
      into place around her. It easily deflected the yellow jet of light
      and ricocheted into a wall sconce, melting it immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got a lot of nerve," Harry warned her sending two light
      blue spells towards her left and right sides.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix twisted sideways avoiding them both while swatting
      away the next spell Sirius cast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sent a large area blast at her, and she was forced to take
      cover behind a couch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry kept up a flurry of spells as they began to
      circle and close in from separate sides of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a testament to her skill that she'd only been grazed by a
      couple of cutting curses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius faked a quick lunge towards her, after Harry's signal.
      Utilizing the distraction, Harry was now close enough that one of
      his magical arms snuck past her defenses and quickly twisted her
      wrist and wand behind her own back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ahhh</em>," Bellatrix shrieked as her body arched away from
      Harry, leaving her wide open and vulnerable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had already begun casting the spell he'd dreamed of
      hitting her with, before Harry had effectively rendered her
      temporarily harmless and twisted her to expose an unprotected
      front.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's face locked in surprise when the crimson jet of
      light collided with her midsection and washed over her. Her legs
      went limp and her head made a loud crack as it bounced off the
      hardwood floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Bellatrix's prone form on the ground and his
      godfather's triumphant expression. "Was that spell what I think it
      was?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you think it was the blood freezing curse," Sirius relished
      in answering, "then yeah. It was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had just started to relax when he saw Bellatrix's body
      convulse and flip over onto her back. He sent a stunner at her for
      good measure, but she managed to get a weak shield up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lo- Lord Blacks," she slowly stuttered out the words as her
      body began to shut down and her arms began to shiver. "I'm- I'm-
      I'm he-here to pledge loyalty… to the family."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' look of triumph disappeared as he stood up a little
      straighter. "Did she just-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Harry said, rubbing his temples. He'd been so surprised
      she wasn't taunting them or using her bloody annoying baby voice,
      that he completely overlooked the fact that Bellatrix hadn't cast a
      single spell at them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked like he'd just swallowed a doxy. "Aww…
      bugger."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
