<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TWELVE, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 12</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose you're gonna try and convince me we should just
      let her die?" Sirius half-heartedly asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let out a loud sigh while looking down on the shuddering
      form of Bellatrix. He lifted her sleeve and found what he already
      knew to be there, the Dark Mark. "No. I'm not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stupid bloody Gryffindors," Sirius said, referring to himself
      and Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As ridiculous as the privileges provided to a noble Lord are,"
      Harry reluctantly explained while Bellatrix's shivering slowed
      down. "I can't help but take the 'responsibility to the family'
      aspect of it to heart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bugger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blame the Dursleys," Harry said looking up with a weak smile.
      "I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was curiously watching her shudders finally reach an end
      as she lapsed into unconsciousness. "I don't suppose you happen to
      know the counter to the blood freezing curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry whipped his head towards Sirius. "Excuse me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "Yeah… didn't think so." He shrugged
      helplessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fuck," Harry said, suddenly grasping the full disaster of their
      situation. He quickly tried to think of anyone they could call in
      the next minute who would be able to counter that curse. The only
      people he could think of that might know the counter and would
      trust him enough weren't from this dimension.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do know the counter has to come from the same wand, so we'd
      need someone compatible," Sirius added seeing the wheels in Harry's
      head had begun turning. "And I think it's a different blood based
      curse rather than just a spell reversal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," Harry decided. "We're taking her to St. Mungo's."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had surmised as much. "You know they're gonna
      notice-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I know," Harry said as he bent down to scoop up her body
      and felt the absence of heat. "Ah hell, she feels like a reptile."
      Harry grabbed a handful of floo powder and tossed it into the
      fireplace. "St. Mungo's!" He called out as he and Bellatrix were
      whisked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius quickly followed after.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry emerged in the front lobby of the hospital for magical
      maladies and injuries. He was carrying Bellatrix's limp body, while
      making sure her sleeves stayed down. Harry scurried up to the front
      desk asking, "Emergency?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lady just looked up at him and pointed towards the right
      corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and began to jog that way spotting a generic
      mediwitches' desk. "I need a…" Harry trailed off and had stopped
      his running as he recognized one of the last people he was prepared
      to see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily Potter had been visiting an old friend and was headed
      towards the public fireplaces. She moved out of the way when she
      saw a young man barreling toward her carrying a woman in his arms.
      As he approached, she felt something inside of her calling out to
      him. She was inexplicably drawn to this man. She just stared at him
      with her wide identical green eyes as he slowed down to walk past
      in a moment that felt frozen in time. Her mind was belatedly
      processing the fact that this was one of the new Lord Blacks her
      son had been so impressed by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an ache inside Harry that he'd not felt in years and
      didn't expect to ever feel again. If he had been more alert to his
      surroundings he would have registered her presence much sooner. But
      it was magic that informed him this was Lily Potter before his eyes
      had ever made that connection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius caught up with Harry and began to push him forward. "Kind
      of in a hurry, here, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry said as he snapped out of his momentary daze,
      unwilling to contemplate the Lily Potter of this world right
      now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius flashed Lily a smile and nod as he pushed Harry towards
      the emergency rooms. It was only after they were gone that Lily
      realized he had been carrying Bellatrix Black, a woman widely
      assumed to be a Death Eater.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Healer Armstrong!" Sirius called out spotting a familiar face
      while Harry dashed into the first empty room he found. "We got an
      emergency here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man in question recognized Sirius Black and allowed him to
      direct him towards the room. "What's the problem?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was hit by a blood freezing curse a couple minutes ago,"
      Harry answered, glad to see Sirius closing the door behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Armstrong put his hands around her neck to estimate her
      temperature and check how strong her pulse was. "Did you cast any
      warming charms on her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No sir," Sirius quickly answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," the healer replied hurrying over towards a cabinet of
      supplies. He grabbed several vials of potions and hurried back
      towards the patient. "This is going to get bloody, so wait outside
      if that makes you queasy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius both shook their heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Armstrong quickly grabbed a blade and sliced open
      arteries on both of Bellatrix's wrists. He directed a pair of pans
      to the floor that were catching the thick dark blood oozing out
      while he forced potions down her throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Sirius inquisitively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius caught the unasked question and answered. "Healer
      Armstrong was the first healer I woke up to a few months back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The healer had repositioned both of Bellatrix's hands over a
      single tray with a drain attached to her abdomen. The blood was
      being funneled back into her body, leaving a nasty black sludge
      residue in the pan filter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Armstrong let out the breath he'd been holding as the
      tension and pressure of the situation had passed. He picked up a
      pink magically heated blanket and slid it behind Bellatrix's back,
      wrapping around her neck. "Okay," Armstrong said. "You guys got her
      here just in time. I expect after several days of feeling weak she
      should make a full recovery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius didn't exactly jump for joy, but nodded their
      heads in appreciation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now before I call the aurors because of a certain tattoo on her
      arm," Healer Armstrong forcefully asked, "Is there anything else I
      need to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're not sure," Sirius answered, hoping Harry knew better than
      to attempt a memory charm. "But we'd appreciate it if you didn't
      call them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The healer didn't show any emotion as he asked, "Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry answered, "Because she's a Black who got hit by a blood
      freezing curse. With her last words before passing out she asked
      the Lords Black for protection. If she knew to come to us, then she
      knows that it means abandoning the Death Eaters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's leaving the Dark Lord and his Death Eaters?" Armstrong
      clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd imagine the loyal ones don't get hit with that curse very
      often," Harry deftly replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Armstrong turned to Sirius. "So why aren't you sure what else I
      need to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "'Lord Blacks, I'm here to pledge loyalty to
      the family.' That's everything she managed to get out when we met
      her for the first time a few minutes ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Armstrong sighed. "I still have to report this." He held up a
      hand to stop their objections. "But I think I could hold off on
      informing the authorities until after she's been discharged into
      your care. I want her to stay overnight for observation, but in the
      morning I expect she'll be able to leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Sirius said with Harry nodding his assent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got restraints activated on the bed," Armstrong explained.
      "She could wake up within the hour or perhaps not until morning. In
      the meantime though I want at least one of you with her at all
      times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're not going anywhere," Harry assured him. "We need to get
      some answers from her ourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Armstrong nodded in understanding and in a more friendly
      cordial tone asked, "How've you been, Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Sirius answered. "Better than I've felt in years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Armstrong smiled a little for the first time. "I'll be
      back in a couple hours to take her off the filter." He shut the
      private room's door closed behind him leaving Harry and Sirius
      alone with the pale but temporarily harmless Bellatrix Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fucking Lestrange," Harry grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not Lestrange," Sirius corrected. "She's never been married
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry asked in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For some reason I thought everything before Halloween 1981 in
      this world was going to be the same."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "Considering how strong Voldemort was in
      our world at that time, this place would have been fucked if that
      were true. No, it's close to the same but there's a few
      differences. Of course you were barely a tickle in Prongs' leg
      around then, so you might not recognize some of the
      differences."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded in agreement. "It's somewhat comforting to know she
      didn't torture Neville's parents into insanity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not to say she hasn't done that to others but Moony
      doesn't think she's ever been arrested," Sirius said. "Frankly, the
      only thing they may even have on her would be being a Death
      Eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that a crime?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably," Sirius said as he flicked her toe really hard. "God
      I hate this bitch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at her closer and saw small flinches of pain and
      discomfort on her face. "She looks damn good though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Harry winced. "She's your cousin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So?" Sirius shrugged. "It's not like I'm planning to make some
      three-headed cyclops pureblood heir. She's a cruel bitch and she's
      hot. Those two characteristics go together an awful lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what would the two <em class="calibre8">Aunt-Mums</em> have to say about
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "You and your silly muggle-raised
      ideals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">My</em> only cousin was Dudley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius banished the mental image and spoke softly, "I don't
      think I want to forgive her." He took a deep breath. "Even though
      this one hasn't ever done anything to me. And she's hot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh for Merlin's sake," Harry groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," Sirius said. "It's just so much easier to hate ugly
      chicks. I'm… confused."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About what?" Harry yelled. "Whether or not she's going to kill
      you in this world too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please Harry," Sirius said with a roll of his eyes. "You've got
      that honor reserved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," Harry snapped. "Pick on the orphan boy with guilt
      issues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not that upset," Sirius lazily waved Harry off. "But
      speaking of… it sure looked like Lily recognized you back there.
      That's a pretty damn impressive mother's intuition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed trying not to think about it. "That wasn't mother's
      intuition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Sirius agreed. "I'm sure Lily always greets new
      people carrying Death Eaters by staring with her mouth open."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," Harry swore. "You know she might actually guess pretty
      close for all the wrong reasons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The wrong reasons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never mind," Harry said waving him off. "Anyways… no one will
      ever believe the truth, as long as we keep denying it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius wondered briefly what Harry meant but was interrupted by
      a moan from the bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius were at her side immediately. Sirius had drawn
      his wand, while Harry revealed Bellatrix's. "Don't move," Harry
      instructed. "The curse is still being flushed from your blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix heard the calm voice that had sounded so angry before.
      She blinked her eyes open and looked to her left and right. "Is
      this St. Mungo's?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry answered without explanation. "Are you prepared to
      disavow allegiance to any other Lord and swear your loyalty to the
      family?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix leaned forward and got a little dizzy from the head
      movement. "My sister seemed to think you might be able to protect
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Protect you from what?" Sirius asked, speaking up for the first
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dark Lord, the Death Eaters," she weakly answered, "the
      Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You still haven't answered my question," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nor you, mine," Bellatrix snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius glanced at each other warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Bellatrix said breaking the uncomfortable silence. "I am
      <em class="calibre8">prepared</em> to, but I was hoping to meet you before deciding
      whether I should or not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't promise or guarantee your safety," Harry explained.
      "But for as long as you remain a loyal member of the Black family,
      I will do everything in my power to protect you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix turned to look Harry in the eye. "You will stand
      against him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The <em class="calibre8">him</em> in question was clear as day. Harry held eye
      contact with her and answered, "When he stands against a Black,
      yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix saw a determination in Harry that reminded her of the
      Dark Lord and turned to look at Sirius. From him she felt a warmth
      that reminded her of the Dark Lord. She let out a sigh. "I've no
      doubt a healer has seen the mark I carry. What happens when the
      aurors come?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lifted his hand displaying her wand. "I know the cunning
      of Tom Riddle and sending you to gather information on us is by no
      means a stretch for him. I think it's time you rejoin the family
      before we humor any more of your questions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've seen your respect for wizarding tradition," Bellatrix
      answered knowing she couldn't reach for her wand if she wanted to.
      "So this is my choice? Joining a couple of muggle-lovers who are
      all set to hand me over to my reserved seat in Azkaban or going
      back to the situation that you know I want to leave?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the one looking to upgrade Lords," Harry countered.
      "It's not like our life is going to be any simpler with you under
      our protection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix still hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry and said, "She had her chance. Let's
      go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" Bellatrix called out. "I'll swear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded at Sirius and slipped her wand into her right hand.
      Her wrists were still draining chunky blood at a rate equal to the
      blood flowing back into her body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix took a breath and said, "I hereby pledge my life, my
      loyalty, and my magic to the House of Black. In doing so, I disavow
      and sever any previous allegiances others may claim to my life, my
      loyalty, or my magic. So mote it be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius both felt the invasive pulse in their Black
      family rings and replied in unison. "So mote it be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So mote it be?" Harry repeated in a higher voice after the
      magic in the air finished. "People don't talk like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snickered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stupid old magic using archaic language," Harry grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix collapsed back and Sirius took the wand from her
      before it fell into the tray of blood. "What have I done?" she
      wondered for the first of many times.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned deviously. "That's exactly what we want to know,
      Bella. What <em class="calibre8">have</em> you done?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix hissed and tensed at the sting in her arm. "He's
      calling me. You gotta get me out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry calmly answered. "You're not answering this one.
      Tonight you're staying here, healing, and then tomorrow morning
      we're checking you out. Your healer has agreed to put off
      contacting the aurors until we're gone. After that we can hide you
      or move you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was gritting her teeth as she added, "Maybe we should have
      them amputate the damn thing while we're here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wouldn't help any," Harry said. "The mark is based off a
      bastardized serpent tattoo, but one of his modifications was
      including soul magic. It's visible on the skin, but attached to the
      soul. Lose the arm and you'll still feel the magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sure, Harry?" Sirius clarified with a knowing look. He was
      reminded that Harry had been incorrectly assuming everything before
      their deaths here was the same. "Why not take a look?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled up her sleeve to look at the Dark Mark and was
      shocked by what he saw. At first glance it looked exactly the same.
      Only this one was not burning red, but was in fact animated with
      the tattoo snake weaving in and out of the tattoo skull. Harry
      leaned down as he heard soft hissing coming from the serpent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">The bitch won't like it,</em>" the snake rhythmically
      hissed. "<em class="calibre8">Master's calling, Master's calling. The bitch won't
      like it.</em>" It paused again, before repeating its short song.
      "<em class="calibre8">Master's calling, Master's calling.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked having recognized the tune. "This little bugger is
      singing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What am I doing?</em>" the snake tattoo stopped in surprise
      to ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It stopped," Bellatrix announced happily as her face
      softened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Whoops</em>," the snake said as it began moving wildly
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix winced. "Spoke too soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Hey</em>," Harry hissed in parseltongue at the Dark Mark.
      "<em class="calibre8">Do me a favor and stop that for a second.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix flinched at the sound, while Sirius looked happily
      disturbed by it. The snake tattoo froze in surprise, but it was the
      voice from the hospital room door saying, "Wow," that startled
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't mind me," Healer Armstrong said while closing the door
      behind him. "I just need to check on my patient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius backed away from her bed and Armstrong took his place by
      her side. He began to cast diagnostic charms while Harry continued
      his conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Thank you for stopping</em>," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Who are you to command me?</em>" the snake asked
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I do not command you,</em>" Harry said. "<em class="calibre8">I can only ask
      as a courtesy for… the bitch.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Then I must continue,</em>" the snake explained beginning
      to slither around the tattooed skull. "<em class="calibre8">Master ordered me to
      continue until she answers the call.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">She has felt the summons and now stands at her Lords'
      side,</em>" Harry explained to the serpent. "<em class="calibre8">Your work is
      done.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake began to slow and came to a stop after thinking it
      over. "<em class="calibre8">I will extend you this courtesy until Master commands me
      again.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Thank you</em>," Harry said as the tattoo went back to the
      static image normally associated with the Dark Mark. Harry looked
      up and saw Bellatrix, Healer Armstrong, and Sirius were all
      watching him closely. "Sorry about that but your Dark Mark doesn't
      speak English."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't know it spoke at all," Bellatrix murmured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's quiet, but yeah," Harry explained. "I told him you felt
      the summons and are at your Lords' side. He agreed to stop until
      'Master' commands him again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fascinating," Healer Armstrong said with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you start," Harry interrupted the man. "We're not going
      be fetal flobberworms for your experimentation. How's she
      doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Improving rapidly," Armstrong answered. "Might be well enough
      to leave soon, but I'd still prefer to keep her overnight." He
      turned towards Bellatrix, "I expect you'll get intermittent chills
      for the next few days and you'll feel quite weak. If after two
      weeks, you still get a chill, inform a healer. You may have to
      filter your blood again. Don't assume it's nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius assured Armstrong that one of the Lord Blacks would stick
      around all night, if not both. Armstrong was leaving for the night,
      but would be back in the morning and left instructions for no
      others to check on her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once the healer was gone, Bellatrix sagged back into her bed.
      "May I ask you something, my Lords?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't call us that when the situation doesn't dictate it,"
      Harry said. "My name is Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can call me your Lord," Sirius countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Bellatrix said looking between the two before looking
      down. "I just wondered… who was it? Who did I hurt or kill? Or who
      do you blame me for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius looked at each other, partly wanting to keep
      her in the dark despite knowing the oath to the family should
      protect them. Harry asked, "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix kept her head down staring at her freshly healed
      wrists, not wanting to look up at them. "I know a look of hatred, a
      thirst for revenge. Both of you had that look in your eyes. So I
      wondered who it was that caused you to look at me that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed and waved at Sirius to answer her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry Bella," Sirius decided. "We'll protect you, because you
      are family. But that doesn't mean we trust you." He paused at the
      look of sadness on her face when she closed her eyes. He felt like
      giving her a glimmer of hope adding, "Nor is that to say we never
      will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We just don't want to," Harry admitted pulling out the
      recliners for himself and Sirius.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Albus Dumbledore watched the faces of people as they entered
      the room. This was one of the better barometers for measuring the
      volatility of their current struggle against the Dark Lord
      Voldemort. When there were numerous smiling and laughing faces they
      were at their most relaxed. But when they looked somber and stayed
      quiet, it was because they could sense the oncoming danger, fearing
      the calm before a storm. The most violent atrocities and horrible
      actions of Voldemort had always come suddenly and then he would go
      silent to revel in the moments of fear he inspired.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus hoped this wasn't going to be one of those times. Based on
      the laughter coming from Remus, Tonks, and James Potter Jr., he
      felt he may not need to worry. But it did not escape Albus' notice
      that these three were the most likely to be singing the praises of
      the enigmatic Lord Blacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please everyone," Albus announced. "Be seated. We have a number
      of new items to discuss, as I'm sure anyone who has read today's
      paper will know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was muttering and curious conversations springing up all
      around the Order meeting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For those of you who may not have heard," Albus explained.
      "Bellatrix Black was admitted to St. Mungo's to be treated for some
      rather serious curse damage. She stayed overnight and was released
      into the custody of the two Lord Blacks, as the parties responsible
      for her well being. After her healer discharged her, he then called
      the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and informed them that
      Miss Black bore the Dark Mark on her arm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus could easily tell the few who hadn't heard this news from
      the looks he was receiving. "I have spoken to Healer Armstrong
      wondering why he didn't contact the aurors immediately, and he
      determined there were no outstanding warrants for her arrest, saw
      her commit no crime, and felt the allegiance issue was an internal
      family matter. He wasn't going to violate any patient
      confidentiality, but I believe he may have treated Lord Sirius
      Black in the past."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus held up a hand to forestall objections and said, "We may
      not have any proof of her crimes, but she could be an extremely
      valuable resource for the knowledge and experiences to which she
      could testify."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the Ministry doing?" Bill Weasley asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus glanced at James Potter and then Tonks who both shrugged
      inconclusively. "They have no substantial evidence or implications
      of illegal activity, but they are seeking reasons to justifiably
      bring her in for questioning. The protection offered by her family
      complicates the issue both legally… and because they could simply
      hide her away at any time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean by the protection?" Arthur Weasley
      inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"According to Healer Armstrong, the Lord Blacks were only
      willing to assist her after she disavowed her allegiance to the
      Dark Lord and pledged herself to the Black family. As a sworn
      member of an ancient and noble bloodline, her Lords assume some
      legal responsibility and culpability for her. The laws are a bit
      muddy, particularly among the noble families that predate the
      Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus pursed his lips and sat back for a moment. "I met Lord
      Harry Black for the first time before our Wizengamot session. He
      basically informed me that he was going to cause problems including
      'a little friendly stabbing among dignitaries.' I assumed he was
      speaking metaphorically at the time." Albus frowned though his face
      twitched a little. "I was wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hestia Jones summarized, "So we've got the Lord of a dark family
      publicly stabbing others, associating with known Death Eaters, and
      now secreting away a valuable source of information?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded and continued. "There is also another thing I
      discovered from Healer Armstrong. He said that Lord Harry Black was
      capable of communicating with the Dark Mark."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More wary muttering sprung up. Tonks spoke up to try and prevent
      them from jumping to too many inaccurate conclusions, "Well, that's
      not all that surprising. I mean it is a magical snake tattoo and he
      is a parselmouth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a what?" James Potter clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A parselmouth," James Jr. answered with a nod from next to his
      father. "Harry told me and Uncle PJ he was always surprised animagi
      don't get grouped in with the same misconceptions. And that if
      people weren't so prejudiced about a language, maybe the nicer
      folks with the talent wouldn't have to keep it like some dirty
      secret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Sturgis Podmore uncertainly agreed. "But even if it
      doesn't automatically turn him into a dark wizard, it is a warning
      sign. And there's an awful lot of warning signs popping up around
      these Lord Blacks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw him," Lily interjected. "Running down the hall in St.
      Mungo's with Bellatrix in his arms. She was really pale and looked
      dead, but he… he's not evil. He felt familiar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You saw him? Wait, you saw <em class="calibre8">her</em>?" James said in
      surprise. "And you never mentioned it before now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily had the grace to blush at her husband. "I barely even
      processed that it was her. I've been trying to figure out why he
      felt so familiar. When he was staring at me, it was like we were
      drawn to each other. To be honest, at first I thought I had a
      monster in my chest, rolling around and kicking to get out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James leaned back warily asking, "Are you pregnant again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, heavens no. But I just can't figure out what it is about
      Ha-Harry," she stumbled over the name for a moment. "The only thing
      I could think of is that he reminds me of the son we lost, because
      our Harry would probably be just a little younger than him. And
      even now, when I hear these accusations, my inclination is to jump
      to his defense and protect him." Lily scratched her head. "I was
      hoping it was just some bad shrimp I ate, but… I don't know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus had been squeezing his daughter's leg under the table to
      keep her from saying anything she shouldn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it," James decided turning to his wife. "We're going to
      get you completely checked out for compulsion curses, memory
      charms, the whole works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fine," Lily said, scowling at her husband.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said you felt like you had a monster in your chest," James
      argued. "Let's just make sure you in fact don't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled and interrupted. "Nevertheless, it is imperative
      that we contact the Lord Blacks as soon as possible. I was thinking
      perhaps the Lupins and Potters could talk to them, or ideally
      arrange a meeting with myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks shrugged indifferently, looking to her adoptive father for
      an answer. Remus explained, "Tonks was brought back into the Black
      family as soon as Sirius was able to, and I, by extension, have
      been granted the same courtesy. But even we've been blocked
      access."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Floo's closed and apparition's warded," Tonks answered. "And we
      used to be able to apparate right in. So I'm guessing they
      intentionally blocked us as a favor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cutting you off and refusing you permission is doing you a
      favor?" Sturgis asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks nodded. "I'm already balancing my responsibilities and
      loyalties between the Order and the Ministry. Both of which have
      asked me to exploit my family connection. I can tell you the same
      thing I told Madame Bones: the connection does me no good in this
      instance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you tried simply knocking on the front door?" James asked,
      not wanting this small mission to fall in his lap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks shrugged. "Back door is the one I use because of that
      stupid umbrella stand. And right now the door's got a sign that
      says '<em class="calibre8">Do Not Disturb (except in emergencies).</em>' I'm
      inclined to trust my Lords on this one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James saw people looking his way and said, "I only went by their
      family manor once because I was hoping to question Lord Black
      unofficially. They were… busier than I expected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes," Albus grinned. "We all saw the pictures of Madame
      Bones. But if we cannot open a line of communication, then we may
      have to ask you to 'disturb' them, Miss Lupin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you just send an owl?" James Jr. suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure they've warded owl post if they've blocked even keyed
      in apparition," James condescendingly explained to his son.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James. Jr. shrugged. "Firefly delivered my letter this
      morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're writing to them?" James asked his son in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James. Jr. nodded. "This was before I heard about the Death
      Eater, so Harry's probably busy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You shouldn't be writing to strangers," James scolded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uncle PJ said he doubted they'd mind," James Jr. explained. "We
      talked with them and Tonks for half a day. That's not exactly a
      stranger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus inquired, "Do you mind sharing your Uncle Peter's opinion
      of them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Jr. shook his head. "He said the Lord Blacks are the type
      of allies who will likely drive you to horrible ruin or great
      fortune. But either way, you'll probably have a bit too much fun
      getting there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just about hit the nail on the head with that assessment,"
      Tonks mumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus found himself concurring as well. "I shall send them a
      missive with Fawkes. But if they are not responsive, I wonder if
      you might wish to invite them to dinner at Godric's Hollow with
      your Uncle and the Lupins?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James was going to dismiss the idea outright but Lily answered
      before he had a chance. "I think I'd like that whether they reply
      to you or not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James groaned and planned to assign himself some overtime.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sturgis looked at her like she was mad. "Death Eater?
      Parselmouth? Stabbing? Do these things mean nothing to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus jumped in and explained, "I may not know the Lord Blacks
      well enough to judge the strength of their convictions, but I trust
      Remus and I trust Tonks. And their willingness to be protective of
      the Lord Blacks speaks highly of the trust they have in them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus smiled at Albus and nodded at everyone looking his
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," Albus continued. "I think perhaps we've spent enough time
      talking about the Lord Blacks. Let's move on to other people of
      interest. James, why don't you tell us about these Death Eater
      Bandits?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus had to pat his daughter on the back as she had started
      choking.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Sirius double-checked and saw Bellatrix was still napping in
      the sealed and warded guest bedroom. Kreacher had been instructed
      to relay all communication through Harry and him and to keep them
      apprised of her state.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked down to the muggle room and saw Harry was reading the
      letter that had arrived while they were turning a spare bedroom
      into a temporary gilded cage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who's it from?" Sirius asked, plopping down next to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jimmy," Harry answered. He repeated it proudly, "My little
      brother Jimmy. Writing the older brother he doesn't even know he
      has for advice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius groaned. "Please tell me you're not turning into one of
      <em class="calibre8">them</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't help it," Harry admitted gleefully. "I like the idea of
      having my very own little brother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is how it always starts," Sirius grumbled to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I feel like it's my duty as his big brother to… you
      know…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Love and protect him," Sirius spat out the words
      distastefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry looked at his godfather in confusion. "No. Fuck
      that. He's got family for that. I'm his big brother. I'm supposed
      to <em class="calibre8">corrupt</em> him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Send him some booze and porn, like a good big brother does."
      Harry grinned deviously. "Besides, how do you think James would
      feel about that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was so proud of Harry at that moment he almost considered
      admitting it out loud. Luckily he was saved from the ethical
      dilemma of whether to show emotion or not by an ear-splitting
      scream from the guest bedroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both leapt to their feet and ran down the hall. They burst
      into the room and saw Kreacher fretting over Bellatrix Black who
      was gritting her teeth and convulsing in obvious pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's… him," Bellatrix whispered when she saw Harry walk into
      view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap," Harry said casting a stunner on her immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's violent shudders ceased instantly as she succumbed
      to unconsciousness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This could be a problem," Harry said looking up at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius said pointing towards Bellatrix again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down and saw her body was still wracked with random
      spasms, despite her stunned state. "Bugger. Kreacher, go get
      several pain-relieving potions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort's torturing her through the mark?" Sirius
      clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I was afraid of this. And because it's tied into
      her soul, even stunning won't help her that much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher returned with a half dozen sealed cups of potion. Harry
      woke Bellatrix and handed her one. "Drink this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix started to reach for the potion but her arm was
      clearly not stable enough to hold the cup, so she helplessly opened
      her mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry briefly wondered where this situation fell on the
      weird-o-meter in his life, as he slowly poured the potion into
      Bellatrix's mouth. It took only ten seconds before her body had
      stopped shivering and she relaxed back into the bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," she said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No problem," Harry said incanting another stunning charm and
      sending her right back into unconsciousness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Sirius was watching Bellatrix with an unreadable
      expression on his face. "We're going to have to do something about
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry. "What can we do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped to try and think of any possible solutions. With a
      burst of inspiration, he rolled up her sleeve to examine the Dark
      Mark. The tail of the snake was visible but the head was nowhere to
      be seen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Hey</em>," Harry hissed out in parseltongue as he leant
      down to her arm. "<em class="calibre8">Wake up. You there?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up and saw Sirius was watching him before turning
      back towards the Dark Mark. "<em class="calibre8">I can see your tail. I know you're
      there.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he playing hide the snake head?" Sirius helpfully asked.
      "There was this girl I used to-OWW!" Sirius grabbed his eye.
      "Dammit Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I know you can hear me</em>," Harry hissed. "<em class="calibre8">I just
      wanted to ask you a question.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few inches below the Dark Mark in a patch of unblemished skin,
      the image of the snake's head came bursting to the surface.
      "<em class="calibre8">You are not Master. Master commands</em>." It slithered right
      back up into the skull and once again only the tail was visible as
      its head disappeared hidden under the surface.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood back up. "Crap. He's going to be no help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know that much about soul magic," Sirius said with a
      shrug. "But I know enough that breaking the spell would probably
      kill her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not necessarily," Harry retorted as he settled into a chair
      near Bellatrix's bed. He deflated admitting, "But it'd probably
      destroy her soul… so yeah." Harry sighed as Sirius took the other
      chair. "Any ideas?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "You think we could manipulate the spell
      without breaking it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It might be possible," Harry considered. "But we're probably
      working on a deadline of the pain driving her crazy. Not to mention
      I don't think anyone has ever been able to do anything with the
      mark."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Healers probably won't be any help, will they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Not unless they know more about the Dark
      Mark than I do, which I'm kinda doubting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sat back in thought just observing Bellatrix as he and
      Harry descended into silence. "Well, historically a rabid stray
      bitch gets put down, but I don't really want to do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry grumbled. "She's hot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not that," Sirius explained. "It's just this Bellatrix is
      so different. She's meek. Even as a crazy psychotic murdering bitch
      she had a zest for life, or evil I suppose. Putting this one down
      wouldn't be the same as my real bitch of a cousin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry found himself agreeing with Sirius. He couldn't see much
      of the Bellatrix he knew in this woman either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius waited a beat before adding, "And she's not exactly hard
      on the eyes either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head as they lapsed into another thoughtful
      silence. After several minutes of quiet contemplation, Harry began
      to summarize, "Voldemort can torture her indefinitely. Trying to
      prevent the pain still damages her soul and will eventually drive
      her crazy. Separating the spell from her would kill her or leave
      her soulless. But that hardly matters because breaking the spell or
      manipulating it may very well be impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Impossible," Sirius repeated. "That sounds like your
      forte."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "You can't honestly expect a solution to
      magically appear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kismet as always heeded the call and in a burst of flame, Fawkes
      appeared floating gently in front of Sirius. The phoenix warbled a
      greeting and landed on the edge of the dresser.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at the magical bird before looking up and saying,
      "You can't honestly expect a Philosopher's Stone to magically
      appear." He took a couple seconds thinking positive thoughts while
      Fawkes was tilting his head inspecting him. "Damn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a good try," Sirius admitted. He walked over towards the
      phoenix and showed his empty hand. "Hey Fawkes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes nodded in greeting, having met Sirius before. He curled
      his head under his wing and produced a sealed envelope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eurgh," Harry commented. "As hot as phoenixes run at, you know
      that's a moist armpit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took the envelope from Fawkes' beak and held it up to his
      nose to smell. He quickly whipped the letter away and jerked his
      head back. "Good god. It smells like moldy old parchment." Sirius
      took another look at the envelope. "Oh right." Sirius opened the
      letter and began to read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked over to Fawkes and let the bird smell his hand,
      before he began to scratch Fawkes on the back of his head. "How you
      doing, Fawkes," Harry said. "Still like being rubbed back
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes let loose a rumbling purr of approval.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think you could do us a favor?" Harry asked hopefully. He
      stopped scratching when Fawkes turned to look at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pointed. "Bellatrix is being tortured by Voldemort. You
      think maybe shedding a tear or two might help? Or some other
      ancient phoenix pain-relieving secret?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes' eyes widened and he just tilted his head at Harry in
      disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know. I'm surprised I'm asking too," Harry said. "But
      phoenixes are some of the best healers in the magical world and I
      don't really want her agony. Well, not right now at least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes hopped up into the air and beat his wings as he began to
      circle the small bedroom. He burst into a brilliant phoenix song
      that left Harry and Sirius both tingling happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced over and saw Bellatrix's body was shivering in
      discomfort from the effects of the phoenix song. Fawkes stopped his
      magical tune and landed right back on the edge of Harry's chair as
      Bellatrix's body relaxed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah," Harry said slowly in a moment of dawning realization.
      "Death Eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes let out a laughing murmur of agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what's Albus got to say?" Harry asked noticing Sirius was
      done with the letter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here," Sirius said handing him the letter. "You read it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took the letter and saw it was short but as carefully
      worded as everything from Albus. Harry asked aloud, "He's not
      exactly subtle here, is he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he's trying to win us over with honesty." Sirius
      scoffed with a shake of his head, "Like that'll work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over at Fawkes. "You know we can't do this. Does he
      honestly expect us to sell out a Black who just swore allegiance to
      the family?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes looked almost embarrassed under Harry's scrutiny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't expect us to, did you Fawkes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes shook his head in clear response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A letter has arrived, Masters," Kreacher announced as he walked
      in the room carrying a Ministry owl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't we just the popular kids today," Sirius commented taking
      the letter as the owl flew away having delivered its note. "It's
      from Amy." Sirius read the contents of the letter and added,
      "Correction. It's from the Director of the Department of Magical
      Law Enforcement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Fawkes. "We may have a response for you after
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Wizengamot is going to have an unofficial but required bit
      of questioning for Bellatrix Black Friday afternoon at 1 PM. If she
      hasn't shown up by 2 PM, they have a warrant to search for her in
      Grimmauld Place, including the destruction of any wards in the
      way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised a curious eyebrow at Fawkes and turned towards
      Sirius. "We get two days notice to properly hide her away out of
      the country?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that what we're going to do?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt it," Harry said while summoning a piece of parchment
      and a pen. He began to write a response for Albus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius walked over and saw the letter addressed to the
      Headmaster. "What are you telling him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am thanking him for his concern," Harry explained while
      writing. "But informing him that there is an immediate health risk
      we must address first. After all, it's not like the Dark Lord will
      quietly accept one leaving his service. And I'm telling him we look
      forward to resolving the issue at the Wizengamot on Friday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think he might be able to help us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was just finishing the letter and looked up at Sirius and
      Fawkes. "I think we'd be betraying a Black no matter how
      well-intentioned his help might be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if we don't come up with anything," Sirius asked
      doubtfully. "You think she'd rather constant agony than the
      annoyance of guilt trips, twinkling eyes, and offers of
      sweets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes was clearly amused to be sitting in on this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry handed the note to Sirius to look over. "I'm still not
      sure why she came to us, but you know she had to have considered
      going to Albus for help. She chose us for whatever reason. And I'm
      guessing it was partially because we wouldn't immediately run to
      the high and mighty Albus Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius handed the note back having nothing to add. "I know
      you've had some problems with him in the past-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Harry stopped him and handed the note to Fawkes.
      "There's a spy for Dumbledore in our midst."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes took the note from Harry, and flicked his wing under his
      chin in a gesture that was clearly a phoenix insult. He warbled a
      goodbye that sounded less than friendly and flashed away. After the
      flames disappeared, the Lord Blacks were alone once more to watch
      Bellatrix suffer silently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't ever seen Fawkes do that before. "I think he just
      gave me the equivalent of flipping the bird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As a bird, he might take offense to that," Sirius said. "But
      what I was saying is that when it comes to answers, Dumbledore is
      one of the people usually worth asking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I know," Harry said. "But you're basing that off of your
      impressions of a different man. And he sees Bella as an asset to be
      utilized. We see her as family."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't usually like my family," Sirius pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me neither," Harry agreed recalling his own experiences. "But
      she's still family. And for what it's worth, I'm doubtful he could
      do anything for her that we haven't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two of them went back to their chairs and resumed watching
      over the woman causing them so much trouble.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was re-reading the letter Amy had sent in an official
      capacity. He was still surprised at the differences in the way the
      rules applied to the so-called noble pureblood leaders. Harry's
      musings were interrupted as Sirius smacked himself in the
      forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Sirius exclaimed. "I know why she came to us. It's
      because of who we are, the Lords Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said. "I got that much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no," Sirius argued. "I mean she's a pureblood following
      tradition. My mum used to be Head of the Family, but she was never
      the Lord. That's why Bellatrix could freely associate herself with
      another Lord, including pledge herself into his service."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort's not even a real Lord though," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell him that," Sirius chuckled. "But the point is, now that
      the Black family has a Lord, or two in this case, we're the only
      ones who could rightfully reclaim her from her previous pledge.
      She's never been expelled from the family so she's had to answer to
      both him and us, until we forced her to deny <em class="calibre8">him</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So even though she has abandoned him," Harry continued. "When
      she was loyal, he cast the mark binding her soul to an extent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a very trusting guy, is he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Harry agreed. "Not really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's ours," Sirius said fully comprehending the situation.
      "She was born into the family and raised by it. Our claim and her
      free will supersede any tenuous claim he could make."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're acting like she's a hunk of property," Harry said
      thinking they were doing the exact thing he was criticizing
      Dumbledore for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vassal, servant, slave, whatever you want to call it," Sirius
      said. "We're Lords of a family. And that which is part of the
      family, belongs to the family, and therefore us, as keepers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So the root of the problem is that neither she nor us has ever
      owned the piece of magic on her arm," Harry exclaimed in
      frustration. "I think we're back to the point where asking nicely
      isn't going to help us any."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In matters of dispute," Sirius recounted. "Lords of equal
      stature depend on the magic to decide who is right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grimaced. "Any chance there's a simple spell that does
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "The magic cedes to the victor of a
      duel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had seen the answer coming but hoped that it wasn't the
      case. "Peachy. So we just need to defeat Voldemort in a duel." He
      sighed tiredly not even looking towards Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'd be a Lords' duel," Sirius cheered way too happily. "House
      of Black versus House of Voldemort. But two against one because of
      our status."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This isn't a solution," Harry said shaking his head. "Besides
      getting killed or getting our asses kicked, it won't change the
      fact that he's not a real Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can take him," Sirius said with more confidence than he
      felt. "From the sound of it this one's not even as strong as our
      old one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned as an idea hit him. "Ahh crud."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There it is," Sirius grinned victoriously. "What do you
      got?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just realized it doesn't matter that he's not a recognized
      Lord. And in fact it actually gives him more reason to duel us,"
      Harry ruefully said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfect," Sirius agreed. "How's that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Council of Lords," Harry explained. "When I was reading up
      on the history of the Wizengamot, the Council of Lords was the
      ruling body before the establishment of the Ministry. With the
      Ministry's inception, they became the legislative and judicial
      branch and were then officially called the Wizengamot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Am I getting an explanation or a history lesson?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The point is the old rules of the Council still apply. And if a
      Lord chooses to meet a lesser family head in a Lords' duel, a
      victory by the lesser would grant him the official title of
      Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he'd <em class="calibre8">really</em> be a Lord if he defeats us?" Sirius
      clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we make it a Lords' duel, yeah," Harry nodded. "And
      technically it'd put a Voldemort seat on the Wizengamot too as a
      noble line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh that's priceless!" Sirius laughed. "We have got to do this.
      Even if we lose, we're fucking over the Wizengamot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we lose, we're probably going to be dead, you realize."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "I wanna go out with a bang."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "I can't believe I'm actually considering this,
      but let's look at it logically…"</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Sirius felt his adrenaline racing in ways that good
      old-fashioned robbery had never incited. He was cataloging every
      aspect of their environment worth noting.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">They were in the middle of Badgin Alley, a small magical
      district in Wales.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Four Death Eaters were unconscious with bruises, lying in a pile
      off to their right. The fifth Death Eater they'd sent off with
      instructions to fetch his Master as the Lord Blacks had some urgent
      business with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sixth and final Death Eater of the failed raid was writhing
      under the boot of Harry, who was chatting excitedly with the man's
      Dark Mark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just last night, Sirius had managed to talk Harry into this
      hodge-podge of a plan. In between painkilling potions, they'd
      uncovered this attack Bellatrix wasn't supposed to know about but
      did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been exercising his magic all day. He drilled into
      Sirius' head the fact that they needed to work together to have any
      chance to win this. Even Sirius had agreed that dueling Dark Lords
      without a plan was a bad idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The unconscious Death Eaters were warded off from the growing
      crowd beginning to gather in Badgin Alley. Sirius just hoped
      Voldemort would show up before the aurors did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Half a dozen pops sounded and six more masked Death Eaters
      appeared. "Showtime," Sirius whispered towards Harry as they got up
      to approach them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Crucio</em>!" the man in front called out aiming straight
      for Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A rock off to the side flew up and blocked the curse, while
      Harry and Sirius didn't even blink continuing to walk towards the
      new arrivals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't have time to deal with servants," Sirius bellowed.
      "Where is your Lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Killing Curse was cast and yet another rock flew up to
      intercept the spell. Harry's invisible magical arms leapt into
      action, yanking the caster forward. The man's legs both snapped at
      impossible angles breaking them loudly. "That spell was intended to
      kill me. You know by law, I can torture you for days. And in ways
      that would make you long for your Lord's tender mercies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ripped the man's sleeve off with only a thought and
      immediately began talking to his Dark Mark. "<em class="calibre8">Seeing as how your
      Master isn't here, do you think you could get the marks on these
      other people to jolt</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Marks responded and the other Death Eaters all jumped,
      disturbing their initial shock at discovering a parselmouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Lords Black," a whisper carried down the Alley from the
      other direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Voldemort," Sirius called out loudly as he and Harry
      turned their backs to the remaining Death Eaters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another Killing Curse was sent at Harry's back and the downed
      Death Eater with broken legs jerked up into the path of the deadly
      spell. Harry let him fall to the ground dead, turning his attention
      back towards the darkness of the Alley in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or rather Voldemort, since calling oneself Lord does not make
      it so," Harry corrected Sirius. He peered through the darkness and
      saw the glowing form of an extremely powerful wizard. "I wonder
      Tom, if there had been a <em class="calibre8">G</em> in your name, would you have
      called yourself a God?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are even more foolish than I'd been led to believe,"
      Voldemort hissed out making his presence known as he emerged from
      the shadows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another curse was sent towards Harry's back and another downed
      Death Eater was thrust into the path of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your servants are costing you servants," Harry commented. "You
      might want to tighten their leashes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why is it you two traitors are so eager to die tonight?"
      Voldemort asked looking around for signs of a trap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix Black was a Black long before she made the mistake of
      pledging herself to a false Lord. You knew the magic would never
      see you as a proper Lord, so you ensured your slaves' loyalty with
      a rather ingenious piece of soul magic hidden behind a serpent
      tattoo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have time for this," Voldemort said calmly. "I had
      hoped to see you by my side-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius interrupted him and firmly intoned, "As her Lords, we
      demand control of the Mark on her soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You come to me with demands," Voldemort snapped. He clenched a
      fist as his magic came bubbling to the surface. "I am the Dark Lord
      Voldemort! And I will teach you to fear me before I squeeze the
      last breath from your frail broken bodies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head at Voldemort's predictability. "You know
      your wizarding history, Tom." Harry held out his wand in front of
      him and forced his voice to carry to all ends of the Alley. "The
      House of Black is challenging the House of Voldemort to a Lords'
      duel for control of the mark on Bellatrix Black's soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thick ancient magic began swirling in the air awaiting the
      response from the Dark Lord. The crowds were watching in silence
      and even the Death Eaters still alert were transfixed by the scene
      before them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draw your wand," Sirius ordered, shifting into a dueling
      position directly in front of Harry. "Or leave like a coward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we going to have to chase you?" Harry lackadaisically
      mocked, while ignoring the nausea in the back of his throat. "Or
      would you like to earn your self-proclaimed title of Lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer was given without any sign or warning. A sickly pale
      yellow curse exploded from the wand of the Dark Lord Voldemort. The
      magic surrounding them all began to hum in eager anticipation of a
      victor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' eyes widened at the sheer power of the spell heading
      towards him. He swallowed rather loudly wondering just how this had
      seemed like a good idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt the moment the challenge was accepted and gulped
      almost as loudly as Sirius. He placed his hand on his godfather's
      shoulder, preparing to move them both. "Here we go. Try not to
      die."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
