<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER THIRTEEN, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gah!" Sirius shrieked as Harry apparated them both five feet to
      the side. The ground where they had been standing dried and
      crackled instantly after the curse hit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry as the younger man thrust his hand out, a
      solid shield appearing in place. A loud clang and crack made Sirius
      flinch as Harry yanked them to the ground. The solid shield held,
      but just barely. "What do you mean try not to die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Less talk," Harry said gritting his teeth. Another
      super-charged purple spell slammed into the shield Harry was
      holding, shattering it to dust. "More cursing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grabbed Sirius' shoulder again and apparated them out of
      the way of a searing jet of blue fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually," Harry said turning Sirius around to face the Dark
      Lord. "You need to learn something. Put up a shield."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw three cannon shots of a semi-dark bludgeoning curse
      barreling down on them. He cast a humming magical shield,
      reinforced it, and hunched down to make a smaller target.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry prepared himself and heard Sirius' shield tinkle as it
      broke like the thinnest sheet of glass. The spiraling bludgeoning
      curse hit dead center in the solar plexus of the crouching Sirius
      Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dragon hide armor was put to the test, but absorbed the
      lion's share of the spell. The force was still enough to send
      Sirius careening backwards into Harry, and both of them careening
      backwards sliding to a stop in a small wooded area on the opposite
      side of the alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fuck me," Sirius swore as a dark green barely visible hex
      zipped through the air towards the two of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A nearby rotted log jerked diagonally, blocking the curse but
      spraying the two Lord Blacks with wet wood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two metal spears shot through the air at both Harry and Sirius
      before they could even get to their feet. Two heavy stones blocked
      the spikes' path, sending one veering off towards the tops of the
      trees, while the other flipped forward and embedded itself into the
      ground in front of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you called yourselves Lords," Voldemort taunted. "Can
      you not-" He stopped suddenly and apparated away as one of his
      conjured spears zoomed through the place he had been standing. It
      made a loud echoing <em class="calibre8">THUNK</em> as the spear embedded half a
      meter into a wooden post.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on, Sirius," Harry said as a half dozen pieces of debris
      began orbiting protectively around them. "I got the defense, you
      get the offense. Heavy and fast curses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was a bit twitchy beginning to finally comprehend what
      they'd signed up for but centered himself and put on his game face.
      "We got this." He began twirling his wand, gathering energy as the
      tip started to glow. His wand began to whistle quietly in eager
      anticipation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two of them walked calmly from the small copse of trees,
      while a half dozen rocks and logs circled them dangerously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was standing there, holding his wand lazily at the
      side, squinting at the two Lord Blacks and the various solid
      objects moving randomly around them. "What magic is this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius said nothing as he whipped his wand underhand and sent
      the nonverbal spell that had been building up arcing through the
      air towards Voldemort. It weaved left and right bobbing slowly
      before accelerating suddenly on a straight path to the Dark
      Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The solid shield Voldemort pushed into existence was a step too
      late and barely deflected the curse as it glanced off his shoulder.
      The Dark Lord stumbled but did not fall, only exhaling loudly when
      his right shoulder purpled yet never tore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew it was coming and made no effort to block the spell
      fired behind him as a red jet of light flew right past his ear and
      nowhere near Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," Harry swore softly at the miss.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was about to cast another spell when Harry jerked him
      down and the neon green of a Killing Curse sailed right over them
      both, slamming into the trigger-happy Death Eater behind them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grunted as he hit the ground. "I thought you'd
      block-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That one wasn't aimed at us," Harry explained while keeping
      them covered as they rose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could've fooled me," Sirius muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one touches them until I'm done," Voldemort shouted, staring
      down the Death Eaters assembled behind Harry and Sirius. "If any of
      you cost me this duel, it will be on your head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he's off aim even a centimeter," Harry said urging Sirius to
      stay focused. "There's a reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shot off three rapid fire spells that the Dark Lord
      deflected with ease. "Told you it wouldn't work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meh," Harry grunted knowing that if the servants of one of the
      Lords interfered, then that House forfeited the duel. "It could've
      happened if their aim wasn't so horrid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another two spells came rocketing from Voldemort's wand and
      Harry got two planks into their paths. They exploded in fire,
      showering the Lord Blacks with burning cinders. The dragon hide
      cloaks just sloughed off the wreckage while the Dark Lord cast a
      complicated oculamagi spell over his eyes making them glow a bright
      red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius let loose a sickly decaying curse at the ground the Dark
      Lord was standing on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort apparated straight backwards, returning fire with a
      hail of slicing curses, and then pausing to watch them hit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got rocks in the way of the curses headed towards them,
      letting the ones that were going to miss, fly harmlessly through
      the air around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a diagonal slash, Sirius shot off two bone-breakers at the
      Dark Lord's right shoulder and left knee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort slid a half step to the side and paid no attention to
      the two spells just missing his shoulder and flying between his
      legs. Another flurry of darker slicing curses designed to cleave
      through magical shields came this time speckled in white.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The largest remaining pieces of debris again protected Harry and
      Sirius while the other slicing curses flew past. Two of them
      connected with Harry's invisible magical arms, severing the magic
      cleanly at the point of contact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fell to a knee from the backlash of his own oversaturated
      magic. "Fuck. He figured that out pretty damn quick." The sudden
      magical shift was more short intense pain than slow ache and it
      left Harry winded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius abandoned the longer incantation he'd started and just
      began focusing rapid fire pellet shots at the Dark Lord. Each whip
      of his wand let out a crack of angry magic and zipped off a small,
      icy projectile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort called up another solid shield that they hit with a
      ping, barely denting the surface. He hissed in annoyance as one of
      Sirius' shots connected with his lower leg.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stay with me, Harry," Sirius called, running out of juice from
      his relentless pellet spree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough!" Voldemort boomed loudly, slamming his fist into the
      ground. A deep rumbling shockwave of force knocked Sirius off his
      feet and Harry back down as he had begun to rise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are not without your talents," Voldemort admitted in what
      he felt was a compliment. "Join me. You are powerful wizards. I
      will make you stronger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snapped out a single pellet from his wand in
      response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort held his hand up and let the nuisance spell smash into
      his palm. It stung and broke the surface of his pale skin, but was
      not deep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sensed an opportunity to catch his breath and quickly
      downed a pepper-up potion, while floating a dose to Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three duelers all were watching each other carefully, taking
      a few moments to observe their opponents and plot out their next
      actions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was staring at Harry, focusing his red glowing spelled
      eyes on the younger Lord Black. He noticed a faint echo of magic
      and asked, "Where did you get that scar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even though Harry highly doubted it would be a problem, he was
      still greatly relieved to feel no twinge of life or activity in his
      curse scar, no matter his proximity to this Dark Lord. "Just some
      old over-confident bastard," Harry answered with a smirk. He
      immediately sensed the Dark Lord's silent attempt at
      <em class="calibre8">Legilimency</em> and ejected the probe with excessive
      force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watch your mind and your eye contact," Harry warned to
      Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort hissed and flinched from the abrupt violent mental
      push. He hoped dividing his <em class="calibre8">Legilimency</em> probe between the
      Lord Blacks would make them subtle enough to not be noticed. He
      encountered no <em class="calibre8">Occlumency</em> shields at all and caught a
      single snippet from each of them before being thrown out and losing
      his connection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took a closer look around at the crowds gathering and
      continued to internally stockpile spells. He saw his Death Eaters
      warily assessing the contingent of aurors that had just arrived at
      the tavern down the alley. "Go. Take them with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Death Eaters able to move quickly grabbed their unconscious
      mates, leaving the three dead ones behind. They apparated away
      before the aurors could stop them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So this was your grand plan?" Voldemort said, airily waving his
      hand at all the destruction they had caused. "Tempt me with a
      Lords' duel, hope to last long enough for the aurors to arrive, and
      then what? Concede while they foolishly attempt to trap me? They
      are not strong enough and the Lords' duel prevents their
      interference. What could you honestly hope to accomplish with this
      futile exercise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't give a shit about the aurors," Sirius answered as the
      steam from a pepper-up whistled out his ears. "This is merely a
      family matter for us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it is death you seek," Voldemort announced, watching the
      aurors fail in their attempts to erect wards over the Lords and the
      area between them. "Then death I shall give you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord voiced no spell and made no motion other than to
      clench his fist tightly in front of him. A kaleidoscope of magic
      erupted from his hand, expanding into a giant wave, each color a
      different spell, a different curse, and a different way to hurt or
      kill.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grabbed onto Sirius' shoulder and tried to apparate away.
      He slammed into an anti-apparition jinx he'd yet to notice and was
      left staggering from the attempt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Every piece of debris Harry could reach was frantically thrown
      at the myriad of violent spells contained in a single rainbow wave
      of magic. The dirt on the ground was splashed up to try to disrupt
      curses when rocks couldn't be found. But the efforts were futile.
      Half a dozen spells ripped through both Sirius and Harry's bodies
      lifting them off their feet and carrying them ten meters through
      the air. The most damage was done to the exposed areas of skin
      while the dragon hide was pushed to its limits before cracking and
      shredding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was knocked senseless and he moaned in protest wondering
      what had happened. He let out a labored breath as the memories came
      back to him. He saw the green of a Killing Curse headed for him and
      his magical arms quickly propelled him into the air just avoiding
      the spell that smacked into the ground below him. He landed on his
      feet only to see the Dark Lord had already cast another Killing
      Curse at his other opponent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry heard Sirius begin to moan in pain just before he dove
      right on top of his godfather. Using his momentum to roll them both
      away from the deadly spell, Harry earned even louder cries from
      Sirius as both of their thrashed bodies were jostled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's magic reacted instinctively grabbing a bunch of debris
      to protect them. No longer was it circling around them exposing his
      magical arms to harm. Instead the debris was hovering right in
      front of them, shielding them from the hail of curses that the Dark
      Lord sent their way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was levitated off the ground and Harry slung the older
      man's arm over his shoulder, holding the weakened man up. They were
      both on their feet now, and Harry's shields were diverting or
      blocking most of the Dark Lord's spells. The ones that couldn't be
      blocked, Harry was able to run or dodge away from successfully.
      Focusing only on the defensive, Harry was whispering at Sirius to
      wake up, knowing that Voldemort could hear him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord was two thirds of the way into summoning a pool of
      hellfire, when a sudden pop alerted him to the fact that his
      anti-apparition jinx had been countered without his notice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Through the shield of debris, he could see only one Lord
      Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had been dazed from Voldemort's rekindled onslaught but
      quickly regained control of his faculties. Harry had been pinching
      him and Sirius heard the stilted way Harry was whispering. Sirius
      continued to play possum while gently breaking down the Dark Lord's
      anti-apparition jinx. When he felt it break he didn't even bother
      to look up. He simply apparated directly to the Dark Lord's right.
      Not wanting to waste a moment with wand waving or a voiced spell,
      Sirius used two open hands to slam Voldemort's bruised and purpled
      shoulder with wandless concussion charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort hadn't even seen the attack coming before he was
      blasted sideways through the glass window of a china shop's teacup
      display. His shoulder that had taken the brunt of the blow had
      split open and was coating his entire arm in blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry apparated right behind Sirius and gathered fresh pieces of
      rock, floating in formation waiting to block the next spell headed
      their way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That," Voldemort hissed dangerously while stepping out from the
      broken storefront, "was a mistake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius fired off a pair of dark burning curses that just fizzled
      out in the air surrounding the furious Dark Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort huffed in pain as he pressed his hand over his
      bleeding shoulder. The blood flowing down his arm darkened until it
      was black and ceased to flow. Voldemort stared down at the two Lord
      Blacks without an ounce of fear. "It won't happen again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An orange spell came shooting out Voldemort's open palm while he
      snapped his wand igniting a long fiery whip. The largest log
      exploded when the orange spell connected and the whip snaked
      through the air destroying two more of the rocks and sending the
      shards raining down on Harry and Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast a magical shield just in time, while Sirius sent off
      a bludgeoning and a spearing curse with another happy whistle from
      his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was inching closer and working his magical whip
      through every piece of protection Harry could grab. The two spells
      from Sirius smacked into the Dark Lord with a flash of light, but
      didn't even slow his forward progress for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord snapped his wand with a flourish releasing his
      hold on the magical whip that sliced through the air and wrapped
      around both Lord Blacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took Harry more effort than he would have liked to dispel the
      fire binding that had singed both himself and Sirius. All the while
      the Dark Lord just kept laying on spell after spell, randomly
      switching his targets from Harry to Sirius and back again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort saw this as a challenge in more ways the one. He
      wasn't putting everything he had into each spell, instead focusing
      on quantity. But he wanted to prove to all watching how futile
      opposing him was. He was actively destroying each and every attempt
      at a physical shield, faster than Harry could thrust them in the
      way of the spells. For every spell he bothered to verbalize, two
      more silent ones were cast without wasting a breath. More than two
      spells a second for fifteen seconds, and Voldemort was connecting
      cleanly every fourth or fifth spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was doing all he could to defend, but the Dark Lord was
      just too quick for him to keep up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius hadn't been able to cast anything significant in response
      as he was forced to defend from the numerous spells that Harry
      couldn't. Harry had warned Sirius that even in this world, he
      expected the Dark Lord to be faster and stronger than either of
      them. But they had numbers and a few other advantages in their
      favor, so Harry figured they had a good chance to win. Another
      stinging hex hit deep enough to draw blood on Sirius' wand arm, and
      he began to understand why Harry hadn't been as confident as he
      was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was summoning shards of the broken storefront, the trees,
      the rocks, everything within reach and furiously tried to keep up
      with the Dark Lord's pace. He knew he was missing a third of the
      spells now but he was focused on blocking the most dangerous ones.
      A metal blade was spinning through the air towards Sirius that
      Harry just barely deflected away in time. He hadn't even seen the
      dark slicing curses coming before two magical arms were severed and
      he fell to the ground, screaming unprepared for the painful
      backlash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw Harry fall and quickly changed tactics. He went on
      the offensive and fired a cutter followed immediately with a dark
      crucifixion curse aimed at Voldemort's heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort had been timing his spells, planning on Harry's
      reaction. He hefted a solid shield in his open hand and batted away
      both of Sirius' curses with barely a thought. He lunged towards
      Sirius and put his all into the next curse, snarling,
      "<em class="calibre8">Crucio</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius wanted to dodge. He wanted to get something in the path
      of the curse. But the sheer velocity and hatred emanating off the
      spell didn't even give him time to blink before it slammed him,
      driving him into the ground. His entire body burned in pain on a
      level he'd not even imagined, completely unaware that he was
      screaming his throat raw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't even caught his breath when he heard Voldemort cast
      a spell with more intensity than anything in the previous five
      minutes. He looked on in horror as his godfather's body began
      smoldering the moment the Unforgivable connected. The scream nearly
      tore at Harry's heart and he knew Sirius wouldn't last long under
      that curse. Harry's magical arms were moving as fast as he could
      think as a chunk of rock slammed into Voldemort's wand hand and two
      other arms pulled Sirius away and safely behind Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The screaming had stopped and pitiful moans replaced it, but
      Harry knew Sirius was just about down for the count. Harry needed
      to give Voldemort something else to think about or he would have to
      sincerely consider cutting their losses and running. He wanted to
      protect Bellatrix, but he wasn't about to choose her over Sirius'
      life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No longer seeking out debris for shields, Harry's arms were now
      looking for weapons. Every decent sized rock was picked up and
      thrown at the Dark Lord at high velocity. Half a dozen solid
      projectiles coming from different angles connected with Voldemort
      before he could get up a large enough physical shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pressing the advantage, Harry began to cast spells designed to
      destroy and eat the shields Voldemort kept invoking. He'd heard a
      crack and suspected he'd broken the Dark Lord's leg, but wasn't
      about to let up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort stepped back from the sudden attack, frustrated as he
      alternated between shielding himself from rocks, spears, and broken
      glass, while fending off the spells headed towards him. His anger
      and frustration reached its boiling point and he began cursing
      Harry right back, trading off the occasional rock or weaker spell,
      in exchange for sending a curse in return.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was doing his best to stay on the offensive, but it wasn't
      long before Voldemort's superior skill made up the difference. A
      dark slicing curse aimed for one of Harry's magical arms was
      avoided, but it clipped him on the cheek, splitting the side of his
      face open. He saw Sirius was still down and just hoped the Dark
      Lord was tired enough to make a mistake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In one smooth motion Harry slipped his ash wand back into its
      arm holster while drawing his old holly wand from the holster on
      the other arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was done taking chances and saw Harry had lined up
      with Sirius. He flicked his wand sideways then straight shouting
      out, "<em class="calibre8">Avada Kedavra</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Feeling a bit mischievous Harry made no move from the path of
      the curse and shouted his own spell, "<em class="calibre8">Densaugeo</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Harry had planned the two spells collided in midair and
      linked together, feeding back into their casters' wands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The surprise showed on Voldemort's face as the near brother
      wands combined to create the <em class="calibre8">Priori Incantatem</em> effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A steady stream of magic was pouring from both duelists' wands
      connected in the middle of them and blossoming outward. A crackling
      iridescent dome of magic surrounded both men, cutting them off from
      the outside world, and pitting the pair against each other in a
      magical battle of wills.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew exactly what was happening and pressed his advantage,
      focusing all of his energy onto forcing the growing central ball of
      magic in the linked stream to flow back towards Voldemort's wand.
      Harry's magical arms folded themselves back inside so as to allow
      Harry to dedicate his complete focus to the task at hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort understood well enough that their wands had linked and
      they were now engaged in a challenge of willpower. The sheer volume
      of magic going into the wands and into the massive webbed cage
      surrounding them was blinding to the oculamagi spell on his eyes.
      He could feel the magic in the link slipping towards him, but all
      he could see was white where the spells had collided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort didn't know why or how this phenomenon happened, but
      he could tell Harry knew it was coming. Voldemort concluded this
      because Harry had been cocky enough to cast a teeth growing curse,
      indicating that the spells may be revisited upon the caster. He
      knew he couldn't afford to lose this test of will, and tried to
      force the spell back towards Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord knew it wasn't working but he couldn't see what
      was even happening. When he caught a glimpse of Harry, he saw no
      magical arms visible anywhere. Quickly deciding he shouldn't be
      wasting magic either, he focused his own hatred at breaking the
      oculamagi spell on his eyes. He wasn't going to waste a drop of his
      magic and he desperately needed to see clearer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was pushing the oversized magical glob back, almost far
      enough to reach the Dark Lord's wand, inciting the spell
      regurgitation when suddenly Voldemort shouted in triumph and his
      eyes stopped glowing red. Harry realized the Dark Lord had managed
      to cancel that spell while still holding off Harry's will. The
      pressure on Harry nearly doubled and the magical balls reversed
      direction heading closer towards Harry's wand tip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry dug deep inside looking for that extra something and
      stopped the progress of the magical marker on the linked spells.
      They'd reached a tentative stalemate, as the bulging magical balls
      would drift forward a half meter, and then right back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A haunting and eerie phoenix song began to echo around the
      golden dome. Some braver members of the crowd watching including
      aurors and members of the Order were standing right up next to the
      edge of the dome staring at it in wonder and unable to cross
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chanced a glance over his shoulder and saw through the
      dome that Sirius was no longer on his back, but had gotten up to
      his knees. The brief lapse in concentration cost Harry and the
      largest central glob moved even closer to Harry's side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He gritted his teeth and halted its progress, pushing it back
      towards the Dark Lord as much as he could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wands in their hands were spewing excess sparks in all
      directions scalding both duelists. The sheer volume of magic being
      channeled was heating the wands up as they burned against the hands
      clenching them. Smoke rose from their sizzling hands but neither
      Harry nor Voldemort would ever contemplate conceding. They stared
      each other down, not allowing their concentration on the linked
      spells to drift.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took the first step forward, shortening the stream of
      magic and pushing the beachball-sized glob back towards Voldemort a
      small amount.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort saw the ball grow bigger and get a little closer. He
      responded by taking a step towards Harry, gaining even more ground
      than he had lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was by unspoken agreement that they both started to slowly
      step closer, shortening the linked stream and increasing the
      pressure on themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sizzling dome of magic protected them completely, flashing
      solid as the intensity of the battle increased. Harry could feel
      his strength leaving him, but refused to lose this battle of wills.
      Voldemort may be faster and more powerful, Harry thought, but his
      will was stronger. He would not lose this, no matter what Voldemort
      was on the other side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was focused exclusively on pushing the growing ball of
      magic back towards Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oooh tingly!" Ginny Weasley exclaimed as she suddenly found
      herself floating in the middle of a massive magical glob. She heard
      a hiss of surprise and turned to see a frightened and sweaty Dark
      Lord in the midst of a very tense duel. She slowly turned her head
      to the other side and easily recognized Harry, despite the bloody
      mess covering his cheek and neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked back at Voldemort and Harry once more before
      announcing the decision she had made. "I'll come back later." Her
      ghostly form disappeared leaving only the bright glowing magic of
      their linked wands in her wake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was disturbed and shaken by the ghost's sudden
      appearance and his focus began to stray.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw his opportunity and sprinted five steps until he was
      barely three meters from the Dark Lord. The jiggling mass of magic
      ballooned and was now reaching its breaking point. The haunting
      sound of the phoenix cry was cresting at a fevered pitch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort braced for the sudden jolt on his magic but held
      firm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The strain of forcing himself to halve the distance between them
      was crushing Harry. He fell to one knee but kept his wand arm
      steady as his hands continued to burn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was trembling from the effort, sweat pouring off his
      forehead. He looked up at the Dark Lord as the magical glob began
      to teeter right up against Harry's wand tip. Harry saw the look of
      a victorious man standing proudly over a defeated foe on his
      knees.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's stern look of concentration slipped for just a moment,
      allowing a ghost of a smile to cross his face. He saw the Dark
      Lord's pupils widen in fear as the dormant magic in Harry sprung to
      violent life. A mere two invisible magical arms exploded from
      Harry's body grabbing opposite sides of the Dark Lord's head and
      wrenching it with every ounce of magic Harry had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The division of Harry's focus from the battle of wills was not
      without its costs. The <em class="calibre8">Priori Incantatem</em> effect flooded
      rapidly into Harry's wand. His bloody burnt hand was still clenched
      around the holly wand when the channel filled beyond its limit and
      exploded into splinters. A ghostly haze of spells erupted and began
      to dissipate almost immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The muffled bloody pop of the wand's combustion was barely
      noticeable as the dome of magic surrounding the duelers softly
      fluttered off and the ear-splitting crack of the Dark Lord's neck
      snapping like a twig echoed throughout the entire alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone watching the duel in rapt awe had gone silent as death
      when they could suddenly see the two other combatants clearly. Lord
      Harry Black was on his knees looking like he might collapse at any
      moment. And the Dark Lord Voldemort was floating a meter off the
      ground. His entire body hanging limply, his wand seared directly
      into the flesh of his palm. The Dark Lord's red eyes were swirling
      in restrained fury despite the unnatural way his chin was pointed
      up and over his shoulder. The people behind the Dark Lord could see
      shards of bloody bone sticking out at the base of his neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath and shuddered as his magical arms
      jerked again. Another series of snaps and crackles announced more
      torn muscles and broken bones as the Dark Lord Voldemort's head now
      faced completely in the wrong direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was the first person to react, jumping to his feet and
      charging into the fray to help his godson. He tried casting a
      Killing Curse but was unable to in his current state. He then aimed
      a decapitation curse at the unmoving body of the Dark Lord. It
      missed completely. Growling in frustration, he finally fired a
      blasting curse that connected with the Dark Lord's thigh, exploding
      with blood and sending the man flying from Harry's grip.
      Voldemort's body landed in a crumpled heap and Sirius aimed another
      blasting curse at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The aurors again failed to erect any apparition or portkey wards
      surrounding the duelists as the magic of the Lords' duel hadn't
      reached completion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had fallen to his hands and knees in sheer exhaustion, but
      he still wasn't surprised to hear the Dark Lord whisper a trigger
      word in parseltongue, "<em class="calibre8">Return</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The portkey activated whisking away the paralyzed and broken
      body of the Dark Lord just before Sirius' second blasting curse
      could connect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ancient magic in the air called forth by the duel came to
      fruition and had identified a victor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius felt a rush of foreign magic, giving them a
      slight burst of energy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius limped over to Harry who was in the process of wrapping
      his bloody burnt wand hand with gauze. He pulled Harry up to his
      feet as they both felt the adrenaline leaving their systems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw a number of people headed towards them and knew they
      weren't ready to deal with questions right now. He wrapped an arm
      around Harry with a tired smile and said, "I don't know about you,
      but I could use a nap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled a bit deliriously but held on, letting Sirius
      apparate them both back to Grimmauld Place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pair arrived in the foyer and crashed to the ground,
      unwilling to expend any energy on balance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oww," Harry winced landing on his right hand, aggravating the
      holly splinters that were all that remained of his first wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Sirius said, panting from exhaustion. "Kreacher!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a pop, the house elf appeared and looked at both hurting
      Masters in worry. "What happened? Was it those filthy
      mudbloods?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Sirius answered rolling to his feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I bet it was muggles," Kreacher said paying little attention as
      he rubbed his chin in thought. "I'll fetch the baby traps and the
      hammers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't muggles," Sirius said louder, noticing Harry was
      picking splinters out of his blistered and bloody palm. "This would
      be the handiwork of the Dark Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dark Lord?" Kreacher said, shaking his head in dismay. "But
      why would he…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was torturing a Black," Sirius explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well the Black probably deserved it," Kreacher retorted. "The
      Dark Lord is the greatest, most powerfulest, wonderfulest wizard
      ever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked reliving a few scary Dobby flashbacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned, "When I have to choose between family and the
      Dark Lord-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You choose the Dark Lord," Kreacher answered for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't be a very good Lord <em class="calibre8">Black</em> if I did. Family
      comes first," Sirius corrected, "Dark Lord second."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But he's the Dark Lord!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I might bump the Dark Lord a little lower than second,"
      Harry commented wincing as he tried clenching a fist with his right
      hand. He ordered Kreacher, "Go get us a couple of pain relieving
      potions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If the Dark Lord wanted you hurt," Kreacher helplessly
      supplied. "Kreacher doesn't think you should be-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh for pete's sake, forget it," Harry said unwilling to deal
      with an immorally conflicted house elf when he was so close to
      passing out. "We need to check on Bellatrix anyway. We'll get them
      ourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The quirky house elf was frowning and grumbling to himself,
      "Kreacher doesn't think Masters should be cheating out of
      punishments. Kreacher takes his punishments and Kreacher likes
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius helped Harry up and they slowly gimped their way up the
      stairs. "Do you need St. Mungo's?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not this second," Harry said before noticing Sirius was moving
      as slowly as he was. "Do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius rubbed at his side. "I might have cracked a rib, but it's
      probably just bruised. I figure let's sleep on it and see how we
      feel in the morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled blissfully at his godfather. "I was worried you
      were going to force me to a healer this instant like every other
      overbearing self-appointed parental influence in my life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a big boy, and I'm not that mature," Sirius admitted,
      clearly quite happy with both of those facts. They reached the top
      of the steps and stopped to take a breath. "Any guesses on what a
      baby trap is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm quite sure we don't want to know," Harry said picturing a
      combination of a cage and bear trap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two Lord Blacks walked into the warded guest room and saw
      Bellatrix was still trembling in pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius shared a worried look. Sirius grabbed a pair of
      pain relieving potions while Harry was staring at her Dark Mark.
      The skull was no longer present on her lower forearm. In its place
      was a shield with a sword and two stars flanked by a pair of
      greyhounds. Below the shield was a banner reading <em class="calibre8">Toujours
      Pur</em>. It was the Black family crest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Sirius said in slight surprise after drinking his potion
      and handing a dose to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knocked the vial back and swallowed. "We might want to
      look into changing that motto."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "I say ditch the French and use pig Latin at the
      very least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sliver of movement behind the tattoo banner caught Harry's eye
      and he realized it was the tail of the snake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Hey</em>," Harry hissed out in parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake's head popped up from the unblemished skin just below
      the crest. "<em class="calibre8">You are… you are Master?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Yeah</em>," Harry replied. "<em class="calibre8">Now I am. And so is
      he.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake head turned towards Sirius and looked back at Harry.
      "<em class="calibre8">So he is</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Stop hurting her</em>," Harry hissed in command. "<em class="calibre8">I may
      talk to you later, but for now, do nothing to her. Okay?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">That doesn't sound like fun</em>," the snake replied
      doubtfully. "<em class="calibre8">But as you command.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the snake disappear back under the surface of her skin
      only to reappear above the top of the crest. It coiled up and
      tucked its head in to take a nap, locking into place atop the
      shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's body relaxed and was resting peacefully for the
      first time in days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at his watch and saw it was after two in the
      morning. "Alright. We can get ten hours of sleep but we've got to
      take her to the Wizengamot at one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's put off St. Mungo's until after the hearing," Sirius
      suggested. "It'll make us look better and give us a good reason to
      keep things brief."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good plan," Harry said after a loud yawn. "I guess you do have
      your uses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please," Sirius chided. "If you weren't holding me back, that
      whole mess with Voldemort would have been over so much
      quicker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right," Harry agreed. "It would have been over much
      quicker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not what I meant," Sirius protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh before I forget," Harry grinned stopping in front of his
      bedroom door. "Did you notice the cute and dainty way your wand
      whistles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good night, Sirius," Harry said walking into his bedroom and
      closing the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a whistle!" Sirius insisted, yelling through Harry's
      door. "You hear me, Harry? It's a manly sound of success. Not a
      whistle!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stripped off all his clothes and couldn't even bother to
      clean off the dried blood. He fell into his bed and pulled the
      sheets up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He heard Sirius' bedroom door close and a final muffled yell.
      "It's not a whistle!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry allowed his worries to fade and happily wriggled into his
      pillow. His last conscious thought before sleep claimed him was
      '<em class="calibre8">I'm really gonna feel this one in the morning.</em>'</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: See? I didn't end with a
      cliffie this time. It happens on occasion. And I'll just allay any
      worries right now and say we've got a lot of fic to go still. We're
      maybe a little over half-way or so through this fic. I love hearing
      what you all think. Reviews make me want to write faster. It may be
      a cheap ploy but it's still true. Thanks for all the kind comments
      and constructive feedback.<br class="calibre4"/></em></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
