<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER EIGHTEEN, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: Aren't I a good author? I
      leave you with a minor cliffhanger and less than six days later,
      the next chapter. That's not bad. No promises on when, but I
      wouldn't expect another chapter until next weekend (not this
      weekend, but next). Maybe sooner, maybe later. Thanks for all the
      reviews. We're getting a few more clues to the plot and a few more
      indications that there really is a plot here.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Avada Ke-</em>HOLY CRAP!" Sirius' wand fizzled as the
      unfinished spell went nowhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahh!" Harry was exclaiming as he clenched his eyes shut and
      kept growing closer to normal size. "Ahh… ahh… uh?" He trailed off
      as he opened up his eyes and saw the wards passing harmlessly
      through his suddenly translucent body. "This is new."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius lowered his wand and stared up at the semi-transparent
      ghostly form of his godson. "Harry! Oh god, Harry. I'm sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not dead," Harry replied back to the still tiny Sirius.
      Harry waved his transparent hand and arm through the wards without
      even feeling a tingle. "Am I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell happened?" Sirius asked stepping back from the
      ward before he countered the shrinking charm on himself. "You're a
      ghost!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That couldn't have killed me," Harry said frowning. He was
      poking himself and saw his body reacted normally to his own touch.
      "There's no way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius reached forward and his hand passed right through Harry's
      arm. "You're cold."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped towards Sirius and swung his arms through his
      godfather touching nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shivered at the sensation. "What did you do? Accidental
      magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scratched his ghostly head. "I've never heard of anything
      like this. I mean I was trying to think of ways around the wards
      and pleading for help. The only thing I could think of was with the
      animagi ward in front of me-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius gasped and stepped back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry said looking down and turning around. "What'd I do
      now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it!" Sirius exclaimed. "That's what… oh this makes
      perfect sense!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a ghost!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I never died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no," Sirius corrected. "You're a ghost! Your animagus form
      is <em class="calibre8">dead Harry</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "That's not a form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you, you killed your form," Sirius cheered. "That's why
      the mist was grey and you kept seeing yourself hazy. You're a
      bloody ghost!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that doesn't…" Harry stopped. "I mean that… I couldn't… My
      animagus form is a ghost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"McGonagall was even talking about magical entities other than
      animals," Sirius happily continued. "Ghosts are all in-between and
      that's why you didn't get black or white mist. That's why you were
      sometimes invisible. Oh this is so freaking cool."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I still look like me," Harry pondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "You're wearing the same clothes but you look
      like a ghost to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked right up to the next set of wards and slowly stuck
      his arm straight through them. "This is sweet! Hardly anyone wards
      against ghosts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on," Sirius grumbled. "That's cheating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got down on his hands and knees and submerged his head
      down into the ground without interference. There was a brief beat
      before his head came right back up. "That was unpleasant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It hurt?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said shaking his head. "But it looked like dirt
      mashed up to my eyelids."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What were you expecting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure," Harry said rubbing his ghostly eyes. "But I
      definitely cannot see through solid objects."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would you think you could?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "Well pardon me if I'm not exactly experienced at
      being a ghost. Can they even pick things up?" Harry asked while
      trying to grab the grass and ground below him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "Poltergeists can, but I don't think
      ghosts can do all that much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'm sitting on the ground," Harry said. "And I was walking
      on it earlier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "Are you sure that's what you were doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jumped to his feet and walked over to Sirius. "Yes,
      Padfoot, I'm walking on the ground."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could just be floating in the way normal Harry would expect
      to walk. Try and float off the ground," Sirius suggested urging his
      godson on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry figured it was worth a shot. His face tightened into a
      look of concentration but nothing was happening. He sighed. He
      stuck a fist into the air and jumped up, only to land right back on
      the ground. "Is there a manual for this stuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned as a thought came to him. "Well, you could always
      ask-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OH! MY! GOD!" Harry exclaimed in sheer terror. "Oh crap. Oh
      Jesus fucking Christ."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just remembered her, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I swear to all that's fucking holy, Sirius," Harry snapped,
      stomping right up into the elder man's face. "If you breathe one
      word of this to Ginny, just one word, I'm carving out your
      testicles with a melon-baller."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's bound to find out eventu-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No she isn't!" Harry shouted. "You're not hearing me too
      clearly. She will NEVER find out about this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"NEVER!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just started to laugh at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry would catch Sirius' eye and the older man would just laugh
      harder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "She's right behind me, isn't she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just laughed louder at the depressed look of resignation
      on Harry's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly turned around. He kept turning until he had gone in
      a full circle and was back facing Sirius. Harry fell to the ground
      in a mixture of exhaustion and exultation. He put his hand over his
      chest. "I think I had a heart attack," Harry opened his eyes in
      surprise and began to rhythmically push on his chest. "Though I
      would feel more comforted if I actually had a heartbeat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just continued to laugh at Harry and was pointing at
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry finally asked, thinking Sirius was laughing a bit
      too heartily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did all the animagus exercises, right? The preliminary
      study?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry nodded having gone through them with Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright then," Sirius happily responded. "Tell me, what's the
      first step towards transformation after you've identified your
      form?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have to map out the skeletal structure differences and
      then… musculature…" Harry trailed off and suddenly realized.
      "Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius started laughing again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah crud."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was nodding in mirth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None of those exercises are going to help," Harry realized. "My
      structure is the exact same… I… How the hell do I transform?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was still tickled and knew there was one more realization
      still to come for Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's ghostly form managed to pale even further. He gasped,
      "How do I change back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There it is," Sirius gleefully announced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I might as well be dead," Harry mumbled remembering the horror
      stories of inexperienced animagi getting stuck in their forms.
      "<em class="calibre8">And</em> I'm getting hungry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax Harry," Sirius assured him. "I can fetch Moony and we can
      reverse it forcefully. I think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry exhaled in relief despite not really breathing. "That's
      right. You're going to have to teach me that spell. I get the
      feeling I'm going to need it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could try it on my own," Sirius admitted. "But that's not an
      easy one-person job, and you're not exactly a weak wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Yeah, we'll do that but before we do, you've got
      some work to finish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aww man," Sirius grumbled. "Now I've got to do everything
      myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quit your whining," Harry happily scolded. "There's just one
      more ward set and it's liftable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded his assent and brought the ward-jack over to the
      final inner ward set. He slid it in and began ratcheting it up
      while Harry walked on into the mid-sized house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could at least keep me company," Sirius muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm scouting ahead," Harry called back. "I can tell you where
      to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was down on his knees, silently agreeing with Harry but
      electing not to voice it. He glanced back through the illusionary
      veil protecting them from outsiders and saw no one had snuck up on
      them. He laid down on the ground and rolled underneath the final
      ward set once it was high enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He left the ward jimmied up and drew his original wand as he
      walked up to the front door of the house. "Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped right through the wall to the side of the door.
      "There's not a lot. But I found something we'll want to take."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just one?" Sirius said slipping on an unlocking glove and
      opening the front door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One in particular," Harry corrected. "There may be a few other
      things worth our time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's get this over with," Sirius said looking both directions
      in the sub-standard home they were robbing. "I'm feeling a little
      vulnerable being the only one between the two of us who can die at
      the moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Follow me," Harry said leading Sirius towards the back of the
      home. "There are wards over it that are masked themselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius found it humorous that Harry as a ghost still had to walk
      everywhere. "Are you sure this is the right guy and right
      place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had a snake confirm the Dark Mark, and Bellatrix says he's an
      obedient Death Eater and has been for a couple decades," Harry said
      pointing over his shoulder. "It's the blank patch of wall
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius eyes slid right over the area Harry indicated, feeling a
      strong urge to look elsewhere. "It's just most places we rob are a
      lot nicer than ours. And this place doesn't feel like the type
      owned by a lowlife with a vault full of gold to fall back on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I'm not sure how much in here would be worth fencing
      anyways," Harry shrugged. "I just want what's back there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' line of sight slipped right over the wall again. "Can
      you at least turn around and point it out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Nope, I can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The same protections that are making your eyes slide all over
      the place work on me too," Harry explained. "But I think I know a
      way around them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm listening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Turn towards the wall on the right," Harry instructed. "Now
      walk sideways, keep watching the wall in front of you. Okay…
      stop."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stopped and was looking at the wall, knowing he shouldn't
      turn around yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait for my signal. There are some strong befuddlement hexes in
      here backed with compulsion charms. It wouldn't take much to… get…"
      Harry said stepping backwards towards the wall. He glanced over his
      shoulder and was hit by the compulsion. Harry's ghostly form turned
      and started to walk down the hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?" Harry answered turning around. "What's up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius turned just slightly to see a completely oblivious Harry
      standing at the end of the hallway before whipping his head right
      back towards the wall in front of him. "You're such an idiot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you're a wanker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius turned enough so that he could glare at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did I do?" Harry said, glancing to the wall behind Sirius.
      "You know there's some wards behind you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't say," Sirius grumbled. "Come on Harry. Think it
      through."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Sirius and then saw his vision slide from the
      warded section of wall. "We're trying to get in there, aren't
      we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Sirius exasperatedly agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I got hit by its defenses and that's why I'm standing over
      here," Harry said in dawning realization.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded eagerly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm coming," Harry said, turning sideways to avoid looking at
      the wall. He slid over next to Sirius. "I'm good. So what's the
      plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius resisted the urge to bang his head against the wall. "You
      came up with the plan. You hadn't gotten around to sharing it with
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that explains why your panties are in a bunch," Harry
      said. He looked at the wall where Sirius was staring and began to
      step backwards. "Let me try something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you at least tell me what you're doing so I can remind you
      next time?" Sirius asked without turning around. "Harry?
      Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm here," Harry said stepping right behind Sirius. "I got a
      plan. Might even be the same one as first time, I just can't look
      at it from this side." He stuck his hand right in front of Sirius'
      face. "See my hand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius flinched at the hand in his face at first but leaned back
      and looked at Harry's translucent hand. "Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get it in your mind and keep it there," Harry said as he began
      to step backwards. He waited until he was all the way in the wall
      before he located the hidden shelf. He stuck his hand straight
      through the wall, sticking out into the hallway while making sure
      his body stayed inside the wall. "Now Sirius, keep thinking about
      my hand. Whenever you're ready, you whip around and hit my hand
      with a blasting curse. Don't think of anything other than my hand,
      alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius spun around and sent a sharp <em class="calibre8">reducto</em> straight
      through Harry's hand, blowing away a large chunk of the very near
      wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrieked and jumped backward at the sudden explosion, but
      was pleased to see Sirius looking at him through the large hole in
      the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded while rubbing his eyes. "Man being a ghost is
      killer on the eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned. "So what do we got in here?" He lifted a few
      chunks of plaster and wood away revealing a relatively plain box
      that had been charmed indestructible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it," Harry said pointing at the box. "That's what makes
      hitting this place worthwhile."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius opened the box and saw a gold locket with the letter S
      engraved on it. "Is this magical?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Salazar Slytherin's locket?" Harry explained. "Yeah, I'd say
      so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius lifted it up to better examine it. "This is
      Slytherin's?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just holding it gives me the heebie-jeebies," Sirius said
      putting it back in the box, and getting ready to put it in his
      trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't take the box," Harry stopped him. "I know we can remove
      most tracers and mask others but this wasn't protected by
      amateurs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Sirius said pulling out the magic muting ball and
      slipping the locket into it. "But I'm not leaving here
      empty-handed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a closet with clothes about your size," Harry
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is not the home of a man with taste," Sirius snootily
      retorted. "No, I want that," He finished and pointed down the
      hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped out from the wall and saw where Sirius was
      pointing. "That?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Sirius assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you even know what that is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not exactly," Sirius said. "But it's big. And I want it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a washer/dryer combo, Padfoot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still want it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at his godfather curiously. "Do you even know what
      a-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Sirius answered before Harry could finish asking. "When I
      was a kid and my little brother was still a baby, the nanny would
      give him fresh sheets from a muggle dryer. They always smelled
      better and were warmer than magicked ones. As soon as the she left
      the room, I'd steal his warm sheets and give him my old ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Sirius oddly. "That's beautiful, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Little bugger used to cry and cry every time I did it," Sirius
      explained. "Regulus once told me that was his first memory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were quite the brother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I went through a bit of bedwetting stage too, so it was a
      win-win situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did Regulus win?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He didn't," Sirius said with a frown. "I won twice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go shrink your washer/dryer combo," Harry said with a shake of
      his head. "And do you want to portkey or apparate out of here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not just go back the way we came?" Sirius asked as he
      wiggled the metal appliance taller than him away from the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I don't trust that unknown ward, and we can take the
      portkey and apparition down from inside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Portkey then," Sirius said as he shrunk the machine down. "I
      can transform and take a portkey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go to Moony's and fetch him," Harry said. "And I'll meet you
      where we did our scouting from, up the hill."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius finished storing away the washer/dryer combo and began
      checking the closets and hallways as he walked back towards the
      front. "You can't do anything as a ghost, can you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To the best of my knowledge ghosts can't apparate or take
      portkeys," Harry explained in frustration. "And I don't
      particularly want to walk ten kilometers to a bus station."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius kept looking for plunder as Harry directed him towards
      the anchor stones for the portkey ward. "Still haven't figured out
      invisibility or floating?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "I've no clue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had quietly brought down the portkey ward and resumed his
      haphazard search for things to take. He decided there wasn't
      anything else worth stealing and walked out to retrieve the
      ward-jack he had left out front. He stuffed everything into the
      magic muting ball that he transfigured to look like a chew toy. He
      cast the 'After Dark Mark' just inside the front door before
      turning a twig into a portkey to the wooded area across the street
      from Remus' place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved at Sirius as he popped into his dog form. "Don't
      make me wait too long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius picked up the ball in his mouth and stepped onto the
      spelled twig, disappearing from Alan Weston's front porch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued to try and move solid objects in spite of his
      incorporeal state but failed. He walked over to where he'd left his
      wand and was disappointed to see he couldn't do anything with it
      either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt exposed out in the open and unable to do anything. He
      quickly walked up the hillside to the spot where he would wait for
      Sirius and Remus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed hoping against hope that Ginny wouldn't make an
      appearance before the two older Marauders could arrive. He plopped
      down onto the ground and leaned back against a young tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's back started to itch when he remembered he should not
      have been able to lean against a tree. Harry's subconscious
      appeared to be having a laugh and when that thought crossed his
      mind, he fell backwards through the tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned up on his elbows and saw the thin trunk was coming
      out his stomach. "Lovely," he muttered as he laid back down,
      resigned to waiting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't sure how long he lay there looking as if he fell
      from the sky and got skewered by the tree. He'd been trying to
      think of all the disadvantages of his animagus form when he heard
      Remus' voice, "What do you think would happen if we cast the spell
      right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly rolled to his side, not even wanting to give them
      the opportunity. "Don't even joke about that. I'm already dancing a
      fine line of death here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A ghost," Remus said shaking his head. "That's… freaky."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't even get a girlish shriek or a gasp that I might be
      dead?" Harry asked dusting himself off out of habit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, he shrieked," Sirius happily explained. "We were silenced
      as we walked up ensuring Moony didn't wake the neighbors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was hardly a shriek," Remus argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," Harry said urging the men on. "Hit me with your best
      shot. And we can pretend you already cast the fake spell tricking
      me into thinking I was stuck as a ghost. I broke down, I cried. You
      laughed at me and are now going to cast the real spell. Go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius put his hands on his hips. "This is why no one likes you
      even though we pretend we do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Forget it, Padfoot," Remus chided. "Let's just do this and
      <em class="calibre8">leave the scene of the crime</em>. Please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus and Sirius moved into position and cast the animagus
      reversal spell at the same time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood there and felt the spells connecting with him. He
      tried to relax and urge the spell on, but his magic was
      instinctively resisting it. Finally with a bit of push from the two
      spell-casters, Harry felt momentarily like a balloon pumped past
      its limit and with a pop was suddenly corporeal again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks guys," Harry said, surprised that the transformation
      hadn't hurt more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Remus dropped their wand arms in exhaustion. Sirius
      complained, "I don't remember it being that difficult back in
      school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry still had Sirius' unicorn hair wand and simply summoned
      his own unicorn hair wand from where he stood, having already
      confirmed the two outer sets wouldn't trigger. He snagged the wand
      out of the air as sure as if it were a snitch, and tossed the other
      wand to Sirius. "You guys okay to apparate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been doing all the work tonight," Sirius tiredly
      complained. "Give us a lift."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Remus looked as beat as Sirius and grabbed onto both
      of them as he apparated to Diagon Alley. The three men quickly
      walked into the Leaky Cauldron and flooed back to Grimmauld
      Place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose we owe you an explanation," Harry said as Remus
      dusted the soot off himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Save it for tomorrow," Remus said turning to walk down the
      hall. "I'm going back to bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Remus head towards Bellatrix's room and turned to
      Sirius. "He wasn't at home, was he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Sirius said. "Didn't you wonder why it took me so
      long?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I figured you were just making me sweat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius rocked his hand from side to side. "Maybe a little. But
      it was also because I walked in on Bellatrix extracting the baby
      batter. You know the Lord stuff is awful useful in this place when
      it comes to locked doors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced at the imagery. "I'm sure Remus was happy about
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was more scared than anything when he noticed me," Sirius
      happily admitted. "It took him over five minutes to even realize I
      was there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked at the implications of that innocuous comment.
      "They didn't notice you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix saw me walk in. She waved. I wasn't in any
      hurry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a sick man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Harry," Sirius agreed. "I am at that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the calm acceptance on Sirius' face. "Can I get that
      locket?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're not going to sell it tomorrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Harry told him. "We can't sell that thing. I'm going to
      put it behind a Fidelius before I go to bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius reached into the storage space and withdrew the locket.
      He held it out for Harry before pulling it back. "You're going to
      share the secret, aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took the locket and right away sensed the piece of split
      soul inside it. "Yes, I'll tell you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much you think it's worth?" Sirius asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered telling his godfather the whole truth but did
      not want to make an issue of opposing Voldemort again, particularly
      when any discussion of horcruxes would more than likely require
      mentioning a certain skull. He decided to give Sirius the
      Dumbledorian truth. "Any founder's object is going to be worth a
      lot, but this is also a piece of a larger puzzle. And getting them
      together would be priceless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really," Sirius said. "Maybe we should look for more
      pieces."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked away from the locket and at his godfather. "You
      want to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "If they're as valuable as you say, then I
      wonder why you don't. You know what the other pieces look like or
      where to find them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave it a moment's thought. "Yeah, I got a few ideas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why don't we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No reason not to," Harry agreed. "But let's take a couple days
      to rest first."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Bellatrix was so excited she screamed "Yes!" and clapped her
      hands eagerly for over a minute. She did the spell four more times,
      with each positive result making her happier than the time
      before.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">She cursed softly the fact that she'd used up all the muggle
      pregnancy tests she had bought. She'd gone through seven the first
      day before Harry informed her that perhaps she should wait until
      she had sex again before peeing on another stick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She cast the spell again and grinned even wider. She knew things
      would be easier if she could get into her Lords' good graces, so
      she was trying to embrace her muggle and werewolf loving side. She
      decided she'd go buy more muggle pregnancy tests just to be
      sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was so excited that she scampered down the steps and right
      out the front door. She did not think to inform her Lords or
      Kreacher that she leaving. Nor did she consider leaving a note or
      bother to cast a glamour over herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was simply giddy just thinking about the child forming
      inside her. She took a left down an alley that was a shortcut to
      the corner market.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No matter how distracted Bellatrix may have been, she would
      always recognize the rippling muting shudder of portkey and
      apparition wards going up around her. She had her wand out and cast
      an invisible shield as she spun around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A dark purple spell collided with her shield, shattering it on
      impact and knocking her backwards off her feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix immediately covered her midsection thinking of her
      daughter and put up another shield. Two curses splashed against it,
      but it held.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rolled away from a dark red jet of light and put up another
      shield. She was hurriedly trying to locate all of her attackers or
      at least get a better idea of how many there were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She counted two disillusioned blurs and no one behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two shouts of spells rang out sending two solid spears towards
      Bellatrix's head and body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She dove behind a dumpster for cover. Immediately she
      strengthened the dumpster and charmed it to be mildly resistant to
      magic. She took a moment to conjure a small puck of dark magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give up, traitor," a nasal male's voice ordered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix twirled her finger over the rim of the puck and it
      started to smoke. She peered right around the edge of the dumpster
      and ducked back as a spell ricocheted off the metal. She slid the
      puck straight down the alley. The two Death Eaters just stared at
      the innocuous looking puck sliding between them when it exploded in
      a flash of light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were coated in liquid layer of blood from the modified
      vampire-hunting spell. The spell was most often used to set a trap
      for vampires by coating people with blood. And the blood from the
      spell also had the side effect of slight flesh-eating
      capabilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as the flash exploded, Bellatrix heard two matching
      screams and jumped to her feet. She began to sprint down the other
      end of the alley, hoping to get away. Her first step took her
      straight into the path of a yellow curse. She instinctively snapped
      another shield into place as quickly as she could. The
      lung-punching hex shredded her shield and knocked her backwards off
      her feet again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She scrambled over to a pair of dustbins and was ducking for
      cover.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two blood-covered Death Eaters behind her were approaching
      rapidly, rejoining the fray.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was pinned down, unable to do anything but defend. Her
      shields were slowly but surely weakening, and muted curses were
      connecting to her extremities. She was staying especially
      protective of her head and midsection, making sure nothing could
      damage her pregnancy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix was running out of time and ideas.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Sirius and Harry both stepped out of their bedrooms at the
      same time. They caught each other's eyes and closed their doors
      behind them.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you pay attention?" Harry asked softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius said. "Blue eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blue eyes," Harry warily agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brunette."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Strawberry blonde."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One sister, she lives in Inverness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only child, grew up in Wales."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Late thirties, or looking great for forties. No kids,
      widowed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grad student, mid twenties. Single."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "Alright then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded back and opened his bedroom door. "It's safe,
      Ashley. I killed the spider."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius opened his. "No worries, Caroline. I cleaned up the
      broken glass."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Caroline came out of the bedroom, looking at Sirius oddly. "You
      know if you had to hide something, you could've just told me. I'm
      not your wife and I'm not your mother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius pulled her close and gave her a loud smacking kiss on the
      cheek. "As long as we're clear on that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I left my number on your bed," Ashley said as she wiggled past
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced over and remarked. "It looks like you carved it
      into the head board."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like I said," Ashley said with a saucy grin. "I left my number
      on your bed. Give me a call some time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Caroline looked at Ashley curiously. "Do I know you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ashley turned and caught Caroline's eye. "I don't believe
      so…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry jumped in. "Sirius, this is Ashley. Ashley, this
      is Sirius. And Caroline, was it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was," Caroline said nodding at Harry and turning towards the
      young woman who looked incredibly familiar. "Your name's Ashley,
      huh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guess you two don't know each other," Sirius happily announced
      and began to urge Caroline out the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Caroline let Sirius push her gently, but she moved out of his
      way right in front of Ashley. "Your name's Ashley not… Emma, by
      chance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ashley paled and took a step back. "Who told you that name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For Christ's sake," Sirius muttered as he looked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Caroline put her hand up to her mouth in shock. Her eyes started
      watering as she explained, "It was what I named my baby shortly
      before the adoption agency took her away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ashley whimpered, squeezing her hands together in hope. "You're…
      you're <em class="calibre8">Jane Austen Doe</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Emma," Caroline exclaimed lunging forward to hug the younger
      woman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh… <em class="calibre8">Mum</em>," Ashley cried, gripping Caroline tighter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Lord," Harry grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shouted, "Oh come on!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm so sorry, Emma," Caroline said in between her sniffles. "I
      was only thirteen and Daddy was up for re-election. I wasn't ready
      to raise a child and I just couldn't give them my real name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe I've found you," Ashley said, not wanting to
      let go. "I spent over two thousand pounds on private investigators
      trying to locate you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was standing next to Harry, who could only gape at the
      scene. "This is ridiculous," Sirius complained, waving his hand
      towards the tear-filled reunion. "Do you have any idea the odds on
      something like this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Sirius and looked him straight in the eye.
      "We've been given a gift, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head in disbelief. "I'm not supposed to long
      for normal days. That's not me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to my life," Harry asserted having come to terms with
      these kinds of things happening regularly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius calmed down and nodded in acceptance. "So what do we do
      with this gift?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We sleep with hot chicks, Sirius," Harry said gripping his
      godfather's shoulder in commiseration. "We sleep with hot
      chicks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sighed. "If we must."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Caroline and Ashley turn away and walk down the stairs
      arm in arm. "I think we've been forgotten."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius flashed a thumbs up. "Give me ten minutes and they'll be
      forgotten too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the two women let themselves out and closed the front
      door behind them. He turned to Sirius, "Did I hear Caroline shout
      yes and then give you a standing ovation? Impressive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "I thought that was you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snapped his fingers. "Remus stayed over, didn't he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius said before pausing. "But he had to leave for
      work real early. That must have been after he left… Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Harry said catching on. "You know maybe we should try and
      teach Moony a few moves. Or get him some numbing creams maybe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You up for some lunch?" Sirius asked. "I'll even pay for my
      half."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With a sweet offer like that, how can I say no?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry walked out the front door, heading for the
      deli.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know I think Remus might be developing feelings for
      Bellatrix," Harry commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius winced, walking in step with Harry. "I wonder if she's
      even capable of feelings of the good variety."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel like I'm kicking a puppy when I say this," Harry
      admitted. "But she's really not been that bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius rationalized, "He's only developing feelings for her
      because he didn't have to deal with that psychotic evil bitch
      killing me and separating me from you and him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry said. "And yeah, I hated her as much as Voldemort
      for killing you. But I think her boobs also play an important part
      in why Remus is developing feelings for her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah," Sirius recalled. "<em class="calibre8">Them</em>. Although, you know,
      that other night he was spending an awful lot of time on her-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Harry interrupted looking at him in disgust. He shook
      his head in disappointment. "Don't spoil it for me. Wait until we
      get a pensieve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Sirius said without conviction. He kept walking in step
      with Harry before stopping suddenly. "Hey Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry belatedly noticed Sirius had stopped and turned around.
      "Yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius pointed down the alley. "Is that Bellatrix pinned down in
      the middle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Looks that way," Harry said calling his wand to his hand and
      extending half a dozen eager magical arms. "Watch our back,
      please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gladly," Sirius said. He saw Harry nod at him and the two blood
      covered individuals closest to them were slammed with bludgeoning
      charms from Sirius and stunning spells from Harry. Both Death
      Eaters were down and out for the fight. Sirius turned around and
      guarded their rear while Harry calmly strolled down the alley
      towards the other Death Eaters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pieces of trash and debris littered throughout the alley ensured
      Harry had lots of ammunition. Six pieces were floating in formation
      around the Lords Black, all waiting in anticipation of a spell to
      deflect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held his wand firm, but was casting nothing. He just
      focused on blocking everything and acting confident and
      unconcerned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The curses flying towards them began to lessen in number and in
      lethality. Harry stopped next to where Bellatrix was huddled down,
      holding a rag to a cut on her forehead. He looked at her curiously.
      "Do you have anything to say for yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Bellatrix admitted, feeling inordinately safe at the
      appearance of her Lords. "I was just so excited I forgot to put on
      a glamour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excited?" Harry inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix nodded happily. "I think I'm pregnant. I was just
      going to get some muggle tests."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Congratulations," Harry said while hurling a dustbin into the
      path of a dark red spell. "Let's hope it doesn't have horns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix sighed and waved airily. "Can we go soon? I'm
      bleeding. <em class="calibre8">And</em> with child."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me talk to these former associates of yours," Harry said
      walking past her towards the remaining Death Eaters. "Shouldn't
      take too long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were three Death Eaters all standing their ground from
      separate positions in the alley. They stopped attempting to curse
      Harry when it became apparent they weren't going to be able to hit
      him without changing tactics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you can attack and kill Bellatrix," Harry stated while
      watching the three Death Eaters. "But you're not supposed to touch
      me or Sirius? Interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're here for her, not you, Lord Black," the man furthest back
      firmly agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Sirius?" Harry called out without even turning around.
      "Anytime you feel like making a pick…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sent out a spray of stunning charms towards the man on
      the left, halfway back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry flung a pair of empty soup cans through the air, smacking
      into the nearest two Death Eaters and sent stunning charms at the
      Death Eater on the right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two more knocked out simultaneously and the Death Eater in the
      back knew he was now alone. He tried to apparate away and slammed
      into an unexpected ward. He staggered backwards at the magical
      block and Harry swiftly ran up to the wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few rocks were thrown at the man who was ably defending
      himself from Harry's projectiles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your arms can't touch me," the Death Eater proudly boasted,
      showing off an amulet under his robe. "I'm protected from summoning
      and banishing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that so?" Harry said walking up confidently. The chain
      around the Death Eater's neck snapped the amulet floated towards
      Harry. Another invisible arm grabbed the Death Eater by the throat,
      lifted him off the ground and slammed him bodily into the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This thing is kinda nifty," Harry said while inspecting at the
      amulet. He looked up at the man suspended in air, struggling
      against a force he couldn't even touch. "What? Don't tell me you're
      surprised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned dangerously as he got closer to the remaining
      conscious Death Eater. "You really think I'd need to pull
      everything out of my bag of tricks," Harry whispered while several
      different colored spells hovered dangerously around them both.
      "Just to beat that old bastard you call Master?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over at the green spell floating right up next to
      him. "That's a killing curse," he explained while it zoomed right
      up to the Death Eater's face before stopping and dancing over his
      cheek, never quite touching him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But this is a memory charm," Harry said lifting his wand up and
      incanting, "<em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>!" Harry stunned the man and left him
      with just a blank in place of the last few minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mysteriously floating spells all dissipated into
      nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius brought over the other unconscious Death Eaters and
      commented, "I didn't know you could have that many spells
      going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "That was all show. Just simple colored
      light. If those were all the spells they looked like, I'd probably
      have passed out by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Sirius said. "Could've fooled me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the idea," Harry agreed piling the five Death Eaters
      together. "Always act like you know what you're doing and people
      will think you do. Where's Bellatrix?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I took her home," Sirius said. "But now I have to buy a dozen
      muggle pregnancy tests."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And somewhere an angel just got her wings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha-ha," Sirius grumbled. "You're coming with me. What are you
      doing with these guys?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stunned them all again and shrunk them down. He picked
      them up and slipped them in his pocket. "Considering the aurors
      haven't come storming in, I'm guessing the Death Eaters warded the
      area from detection as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those silly Death Eaters and their silly wards," Sirius said
      shaking his head. "They didn't even notice when I put up my own
      apparition and portkey wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's just grab some sandwiches when we get the pregnancy
      tests," Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was thinking quickly but coming up with nothing. "Dammit.
      Sandwiches and pregnancy tests. There's a joke here, I know
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't help but to enjoy his godfather's frustration.
      "Give it up Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No…" Sirius whined. "I… I… I hope I don't get an EPT in my
      BLT."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too late," Harry argued. "It doesn't count."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it wasn't funny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now you're just talking crazy."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>The man was trudging up the path to his modest home. Five
      days he was gone on the Dark Lord's mission. He knew he was just
      seat-filling for the sake of looking like a larger and more
      professional organization during some completely pointless talks
      with several vampire clans.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">As usual, no promises were made but they agreed to revisit the
      issue in six months.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was almost to his door when he finally realized what was
      bothering him. His portkey ward was down and it hadn't been when he
      left here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He drew his wand and quietly ran up to the front door. He opened
      the door and peered in, seeing the last thing he expected to
      see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan Weston relaxed as he walked fully into his house, staring
      at the Mark left behind by the Death Eater Bandits. He looked in
      both directions of his house and saw nothing amiss when he suddenly
      remembered what was kept here. He ran through his kitchen towards
      the back hall and saw the giant gaping hole. "Fuck." He looked down
      the hall and saw his washer/dryer combo was gone too. "You gotta be
      kiddin' me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt a glimmer of hope when he spotted the charmed box next
      to several broken pieces of drywall. "Damn," he swore when he
      opened it and found it empty. He threw the box onto the ground in
      frustration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked past the empty spot where his laundry machine used to
      be and right towards the fireplace. He tossed in some floo powder
      and it flared green. He then tossed in some red-speckled powder and
      the flames turned from green to a mixture of green and black. He
      stuck his head in and announced, "We need to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He pulled his head back up and dusted himself off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without a sound a man heavily cloaked in black appeared in front
      of the fireplace. "Welcome back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Death Eater Bandits robbed here," Alan quickly summarized.
      "The locket's gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're sure," the man in black questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be my guest," Alan waved him towards the hall. "They weren't
      subtle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man gracefully stepped over the wreckage and peered into new
      hole in the wall. He was looking left and right for any weaknesses
      as to how it could have been located.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you said Voldemort himself couldn't get in there,"
      Alan commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He couldn't," the man assured him. "But these are thieves. This
      is what they do. And it's not as bad as it sounds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It isn't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man in black shook his head. "The Death Eater Bandits have
      been openly mocking the Voldemort's symbol. They are opposed to
      him. And the fact that they were able to locate the horcrux and
      steal it, points to the idea that they know what it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we still lost it," Alan added. "And I lost my dryer too.
      Savages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True, we lost it. But Voldemort didn't gain it. And I doubt he
      will. The Bandits might even listen to reason if I explained the
      situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan agreed and nodded his head. "So what should I tell the Dark
      Lord about this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man in black walked towards the front of the home, stopping
      to look at the After Dark Mark. He waved his wand in a silent
      practiced motion. A web of mist swirled up and around the mark. The
      mist blurred suddenly and imploded on itself in a small explosion
      of dust, completely eradicating the magical mark from
      existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't tell him anything," the man instructed. "If he's focusing
      all his efforts on the Lords Black right now and forgetting about
      me, all the better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is," Alan stated. "He even called Lord Harry Black 'that
      fucker' one time causing much confusion for Larson. The resulting
      conversation looked like an Abbott and Costello routine. Especially
      if Costello ever cursed Abbott so badly that he bled out his ears
      and needed three weeks to heal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds like him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan just nodded. "Substituting fear for power. On the sheep, it
      can be effective."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it's horrible for marketing. Any other news of note?" the
      man inquired as he walked out the front door to inspect the
      wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Alan informed him. "He's still researching parallel
      dimensions and worlds beyond the natural one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man in black shook his head in disappointment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's been a while since we fed the Ministry anything and it
      might be worth convincing them that I'm one of their <em class="calibre8">deep cover
      informants</em>," Alan said with a mocking voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go ahead and tell them about the vampire meeting," the man in
      black instructed. "We should keep them thinking that they're
      accomplishing something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan saw the man in black looking back and forth in surprise.
      "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two of them came to this point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They spotted your ward?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One crossed here, probably animagus, but that still shouldn't
      be possible for anyone other than the two of us or…" The man
      trailed off in thought and looked back at the ward. "The other
      bandit… disappears?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He went back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, neither of them ever went back. They took your portkey ward
      down and left that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should I feel shaken and violated that they've broken into my
      home and shattered my sense of security?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man in black looked at him curiously. "Do you? Because if
      you need a hug, I know a guy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Alan admitted. "I just wish they hadn't taken my
      dryer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man in black was staring in the spot wondering what the
      strange echoes of magic he could sense meant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan gave him time to look around before finally asking, "So
      what do I tell Dumbledore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think anyone else is spying for Dumbledore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan shrugged. "He knew about the vampire meeting before I told
      him, but that might have just been whispers in pubs that spread to
      the wrong ears."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," the man in black considered. "Goodness knows Snape is
      always trying to needle that information out of his old
      roommates."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That man has the subtlety of a mountain troll in a shopping
      mall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you underestimate trolls," the man in black argued.
      "For now though, let's err on the side of caution. Tell Dumbledore
      the results of the vampire meetings and… and… And yeah, go ahead
      and tell him that the Dark Lord is researching parallel dimensions.
      That should help your credibility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So no one is going to find out I got robbed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man nodded. "No one but us. It gives me some leverage for
      when I track the Death Eater Bandits down." He saw the look on Alan
      Weston's face. "Oh get over it. It was a dryer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan was all set to whine about how it was more than just a
      dryer. "That," he began, only to see the man in black disappear as
      silently as he arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan sighed. "Fucker."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
