<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER ONE, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew it was a stupid idea when he started to long for the
      sensations of portkey travel. Getting sucked into the Exit, he
      estimated felt like getting kicked in the balls with a seasickness
      curse. The wind rushing past was making Harry's cheeks flap and he
      couldn't even get out a proper manly scream of fright.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grabbed onto his satchel with his right arm, not really
      trusting his magic to hold on to the bag. The feeling of falling
      while your body is being stretched from both top and bottom was as
      nauseating as it was painful. Compounding his discomfort was that
      the sheer amount of magic around him was blinding. He had his eyes
      shut tightly but the spell cast on them was forcing him to view all
      the surrounding magic and in a higher concentration that he'd ever
      seen before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry idly wondered if he was scorching his optic nerve as he
      struggled to hold his wand up and cancel the magical sight spell.
      With a high-pitched grunt-like sound he succeeded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's glasses had so far managed to stay in place and he
      blinked his eyes open. He immediately regretted that move as he saw
      he was falling extremely fast through some sort of tube coated in
      blood and ectoplasm. The walls were semi-translucent and glancing
      through the pinkish haze in all directions there were endless
      arrays of more and more fleshy tubes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's vision blurred and everything around him seemed to gain
      a warming purple tinge. Oblivious to his continued descent, he
      thought back to his more often than not strained relationship with
      his best friends, Ron and Hermione. He wondered if maybe now Ginny
      could move on. He thought of the love he held for his parents and
      then Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a violent jerk to his right and Harry felt his body
      turn and rotate as gravity was pulling him, this time in a
      different direction. Thoughts of Sirius reminded Harry that he'd
      been sucked into the Exit and his vision cleared noticeably.
      Another jerk sent Harry careening forward, finally managing the
      elusive high-pitched manly scream that had evaded him earlier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could feel his stomach churning and really didn't want to
      know what puking in this ectoplasmic sorting system would do. Just
      when Harry didn't think he'd be able to make it, he was
      unceremoniously sent shooting out of the Exit, sliding across the
      stone floor, and crashing into the bottom set of stairs in the
      Death Chamber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The moment Harry lifted his body up he began to retch all over
      the last step beneath him. He stopped to catch his breath for less
      than a second before resuming to empty the contents of his stomach.
      The thick puddle below him was spilling over the edge of the step
      and onto the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got a few more breaths of air and proceeded to dry heave
      every last painful drop he could. He wiped his mouth and looked up,
      only to find three Unspeakables surrounding him with their wands
      drawn and aimed at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before he could react, two whispered disarming spells hit him,
      and his wand went flying. His body was forcefully pushed back onto
      the stairs. He opened his mouth to say something and only managed
      to belch a thick cloud of whitish smoke and dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry proceeded to cough and turned away from the welcoming
      committee. Thinking quickly he exclaimed, "Hang on. Let me drink
      the counter potion to my nundu's breath before you guys get
      sick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two of the Unspeakables cast immediate bubblehead charms, while
      the third had impressively managed to conjure or call an entire set
      of scuba gear complete with a working oxygen tank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of them made any move to stop Harry as he pulled a potion
      vial from his satchel and drank it immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let out a contented sigh as the steam whistled out his
      ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You lied to us," the first Unspeakable stated. "That was
      pepper-up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry admitted tossing the empty vial into his bag. "But
      I didn't think you'd let me take it, if you knew it was pepper-up.
      Besides I was really exhausted and did you see how much I puked
      here? That's like what I eat in a week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally after a moment of catching up to his surroundings and
      thinking clearer thanks to the potion, Harry realized that these
      Unspeakables didn't recognize him at all. Considering Harry
      definitely recognized Gruber, it was safe to assume this was an
      alternate dimension, one of the more intriguing potential
      destinations theorized for the Exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seeking confirmation, Harry asked Gruber. "Do you have a brother
      that's also an Unspeakable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gruber looked over towards his colleague and back at Harry. He
      spoke with a thick Slavic accent and was clearly sore about the
      issue. "If you must know my <em class="calibre8">sister</em> retired from the
      Ministry three weeks ago. She wasted her pension on a gender
      reassignment potion. I knew mother breast fed him too long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," Harry uncertainly answered. "Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're another dimension traveler, aren't you?" The lead
      Unspeakable asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Easy guys," Harry tried to calm them with a smile, holding up
      his hands and acting harmless. "I'm one of you. Hold on, you said
      <em class="calibre8">another</em>? Did Sirius Black perchance come through
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lead Unspeakable glanced at Gruber and then the woman to his
      left, all three of them still keeping their wands trained on
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hoping for a little less hostility, and fearing the idea that
      criminals sentenced to death may have just popped out into this
      world to cause problems, Harry explained. "Yeah, I think I am
      dimension traveler, considering I recognize Gruber there who in my
      world has a brother that's also an agent. And none of you seem to
      recognize me. I guess I'm not part of the Department in this
      world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Unspeakables seemed to relax just slightly after catching
      each other's posture. "Sirius Black you're after?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded eagerly, jumping at the opening for a little
      information digging. Thinking of the role he should play, "Escaped
      convict Black? You betcha."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We interrogated him," the lead Unspeakable said, standing
      straighter. "He's innocent of the charges you imprisoned him
      for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry agreed, trying to imagine how the average
      Ministry worker would handle this. "But the law is the law. And he
      broke out of Azkaban. All breakouts get magically drained solitude
      or the Kiss."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry puffed himself up proudly. "No man is above the law. Not
      even an innocent one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The female was clearly confused by Harry's words and inched
      closer. "Who are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on guys, I'm one of you," Harry said, getting the feeling
      the walls were closing in on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your name," the lead Unspeakable ordered while slipping into a
      defensive stance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry bit his lip for a second, and knew that if word got out he
      was a dimension traveler, he'd become rather well known, at least
      in certain circles, much quicker than he'd like. Not to mention the
      bloody red tape he'd no doubt have to go through. "I think for the
      sake of both our dimensions-" Harry cut off as he stepped back,
      twisting his body from three incoming spells. He avoided the
      stunner and the first body bind, but the second body bind clipped
      him on the shin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt his body stiffen and he struggled to move his arms
      and legs. He was about to snap the weak spell when the female on
      his left ran up to him, and slapped a pair of magic inhibiting
      handcuffs over both of his wrists in a very precise and practiced
      motion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Knowing he had an advantage, Harry decided to play along and
      accept his apparent defeat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are going to interrogate you with Veritaserum," said the
      lead Unspeakable. "Standard operating procedure, you
      understand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised a curious eyebrow. "You have a standard operating
      procedure for dimension travelers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lead Unspeakable frowned at Harry and stared silently at
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a show of wilting under the powerful stare and jumped
      at the opportunity. Slowly lifting his head to look the Unspeakable
      right back in the eye, Harry asked, "Was Sirius Black the last
      person you interrogated?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seizing advantage of the eye contact, Harry slipped into the
      Unspeakable's consciousness and caught glimpses of the memories
      flashing by that his words stirred. He saw the paperwork and
      discovered this was Senior Agent David Downing. The most
      interesting thing Harry managed to glean was the date of Sirius's
      arrival was April 5, 2006, or more accurately only two months ago
      today, the same day of Harry's only success with the Exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," Downing cursed looking away, pushing Harry out of his
      mind as quickly as he could. "Keep your shields up and don't look
      this bugger in the eye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agent Downing, is it?" Harry greeted, enjoying the victorious
      pain of being discovered and ejected. "Just wanted to keep you on
      your toes. A little reminder that magic inhibiting cuffs only stop
      magic from the wrists outward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Downing sent a stunner at Harry, who dodged the spell. "Hey!"
      Harry argued. "I'm wearing cuffs. I'm coming peacefully. No need to
      be rude."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gruber, get his bag," Downing instructed while vanishing the
      puke from the steps. He turned to Harry, almost daring him to try
      Legilimency again. "And you lead the way towards the interrogation
      rooms on level eight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, mentally cataloguing his wand was with Downing and
      bag was with Gruber. "Of course, Agent Downing," he said with a
      grin, knowing that just saying the Unspeakable's name riled
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's wrists were pulled together and bound by the magic of
      the cuffs. He calmly made his way up the steps, silently thanking
      the inventor of pepper-up once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Unspeakables carefully followed Harry, all of them with
      their wands aimed at his back and a spell on the tip of their
      tongues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry entered the circular spinning room and contemplated trying
      to escape here. But the spinning room had more identification and
      detection spells than he could hope to avoid. He turned towards the
      Unspeakables to get a glance of how they carried themselves and
      seek out any advantages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Face forward," Downing ordered. "Or we may misinterpret your
      attempts at <em class="calibre8">coming peacefully</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned back around and doubted he'd be able to wrestle all
      three of their wands from them simultaneously. Breaking their necks
      was out of the question but that didn't stop him from once again
      wishing he were evil, for simplicity's sake. His best option was to
      use his magical arms to stun them, which would probably sap most of
      his energy. He quietly led the Unspeakables past the front desk
      that was being manned by the same witch as Harry had seen this
      morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry silently thanked his luck that the lift was empty when the
      doors opened. The three Unspeakables strategically maneuvered to
      surround him. Agent Downing pressed the button for level eight,
      keeping the tip of his wand aimed at Harry's neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath knowing this was going to be
      exhausting. The very second the lift doors closed, six invisible
      magical arms sprung to silent life extended from his body. Three of
      them snaked their way unnoticed and hovered right behind the base
      of the Unspeakables' necks, charging with energy. Hoping this would
      work, Harry willed the three arms simultaneously forward, hitting
      the Unspeakables with stunning spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All four people in the lift collapsed to the floor. The three
      Unspeakables crumpled because they were knocked unconscious, and
      Harry fell due to the sudden extreme draw on his magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry caught his breath, while the three other invisible arms
      retrieved his wand, grabbed his bag, and used the key to remove the
      magic inhibiting cuffs. He decided a pair of magic inhibiting cuffs
      could be pretty useful and stashed them with their key in his
      satchel. He steadied himself and stood, wavering as his equilibrium
      shifted. He knew he'd be paying for this later, but he summoned
      another potion vial and downed a second dose of pepper-up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Steam shot out, hot and raw, scorching his inner ears. He was
      going to be down for the count when this wore off, but he needed to
      get away from here if he was going to keep his secrets intact.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Feeling that third wind kick in, Harry decided on a pair of
      layered memory charms. Just before he could cast the memory
      alteration, he heard the lift chime arriving at level eight. He
      quickly pulled the three unconscious bodies off to the side and
      hopefully out of view. He needed his luck to hold up as the lift
      doors opened, desperately hoping no one wanted to get on the lift
      at this floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stuck his head out into level eight and saw a few Aurors
      looking toward him inquisitively. "This isn't the atrium," Harry
      announced smacking himself in the forehead as he quickly pushed the
      button inside the lift. He kept himself positioned in front of the
      Unspeakables wondering if perhaps this was the longest amount of
      time a pair of lift doors had ever stayed open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Aurors snickered at the loud sound of someone smacking
      himself in the head but went right back to their own business
      ignoring the unidentified, seemingly unaccompanied young man lost
      in the Ministry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once he was alone again, Harry focused immediately on a subtle
      memory alteration that would be hard to identify unless you knew it
      was there. Leaving the memories of their interaction intact, Harry
      changed their perception of him into that of a young buxom blonde
      woman. He shifted their memories of questions about Sirius Black
      into questions about Lucius Malfoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After applying a glamour charm that made him appear to match
      their altered memories, Harry locked them in body binds and woke
      the three Unspeakables up. He spoke with a feminine sneer and
      drawl, "Your bloody shields are keeping my spell out, but I doubt
      you can resist it when you're staring me in the eye.
      <em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did a simplistic memory modification charm this time,
      wiping out the last half hour from their minds. While still dazed
      from the memory charm that he wanted them to find, Harry
      transfigured the three Unspeakables into three shiny silver coins
      and canceled his glamour charm. The entire process took less than a
      minute from conceptualization to execution.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the doors reopened at the atrium, Harry calmly exited
      carrying his satchel under his arm. As he walked past the fountain,
      he tossed the three coins into the water. The human to inanimate
      transfiguration was set to be released in exactly fifteen minutes,
      well after he was long gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry strolled out of the Ministry of Magic satisfied he'd made
      his escape and about as covered as he was going to get without
      doubling back to the Department of Mysteries. Looking up into the
      early afternoon London sun, he saw a world of answers to his
      questions about Sirius and the Exit all around him. He just had to
      find them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All signs indicated Harry was in an alternate dimension,
      existing fully independent of his world. Since he hadn't been
      recognized, it was safe to assume the Harry Potter of this world
      was either dead or not quite as famous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had his wand and his satchel, with his research notes on the
      Exit and a few emergency potions. He had roughly fifty galleons in
      a small pouch, about ninety pounds in his wallet, and an absolute
      certainty that trying to use his credit cards would be a bad
      idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked to a nearby muggle café, ordered a meal to help
      fill his empty stomach, and took a moment to think things over. He
      wasn't sure if he'd be able to go back through the Veil and he
      wasn't about to try until he had more answers. He was tired enough
      that he wouldn't even entertain the possibility without more
      rest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could go to Hogwarts, but he wasn't sure whether Dumbledore
      or McGonagall might still be alive in this world. Harry realized
      that Voldemort could be alive in this world as well, in which case
      Hogwarts could have been razed to the ground or taken over. By the
      same measure Hogwarts could be a fashion institute and the Harry
      Potter of this world could be the androgynous one snootily using a
      fake French accent at the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With no idea about anything in this world, Harry focused on the
      best solution to most of his problems: finding Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered hitting Diagon Alley and staying at the Leaky
      Cauldron, but when he stood up after his meal he realized just how
      tired he was quickly getting. He decided to head to the one place
      that would feel most like home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked out of sight and apparated to a back yard he was
      intimately familiar with. There was trash rotting and a completely
      unkempt growth crawling up the side of the building. He smiled to
      see there wasn't a Fidelius Charm as he gazed up the back side of
      Number 12 Grimmauld Place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The back door was stuck shut, but an alohomora and a running
      start fixed that problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry crashed into the pantry, just off the side of the kitchen
      and fell to the floor skidding through a thick layer of dust.
      Cobwebs that would fit Acromantulas were littered all over the
      place. Sheets covered furniture and a strong, stale musty smell
      permeated the manor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no sign of Sirius here, nor was there any sign anyone
      had been here in decades.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood back up and felt a wave of dizziness wash over him.
      It appeared like his body was going to take its nap here whether he
      liked it or not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stumbling into the living room Harry scourgified the immediate
      area and pulled a sheet off of the large couch. He quickly put up a
      few rudimentary protection wards and collapsed onto the couch. He
      grabbed onto the magically cleaned sheet and pulled it over himself
      while already in the process of snoring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sixteen hours later, Harry yawned and felt a weight on his chest
      as he exhaled. He opened his eyes and found himself staring into a
      pair of impossibly wide bright eyes staring right back at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it true?" the squeaky voice inquired hopefully. "New Master
      has returned?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrieked as he realized a wrinkly old house elf had
      mounted him in his sleep. He swung his arm wildly and swatted the
      elf across the room into the wall. A loud crunch and clatter as the
      elf landed stirred a small cloud of dust into the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's true!" The elf cheered wickedly. "Master has punished! Oh
      Master!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wiped the eye boogers from his face and took a better look
      at the wrinkled little urchin. "Kreacher?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master knows Kreacher?" Kreacher cheered before smacking
      himself in the head. "Stupid Kreacher! Of course <em class="calibre8">Master</em>
      knows Kreacher!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wiped his eyes once more, to make sure they weren't
      playing tricks on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher ran up to Harry and hugged his leg. "Kreacher's been
      bad! Punish Kreacher, Master! Then Kreacher will start cleaning
      this place up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre8">want</em> to be punished?" Harry inquired having always
      suspected most elves were masochists.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kreacher deserves it!" the elf gasped and slapped a hand over
      his mouth. "Kreacher will sharpen all the blood traitor torturing
      tools!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, Kreacher!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Master?" Kreacher said sticking his rear end out waiting
      to be punished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just looked at the old elf that was practically begging to
      be spanked and completely forgot what he was going to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you like me to go steal one of the neighborhood muggles
      for you, Master?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry answered immediately. "I just… you know what. Forget
      it. It doesn't matter. Do whatever you want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kreacher will start cleaning the blades, chains, and
      tenderizing mallets! Oh it will be ever so much fun, Master!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched the disturbed house elf scurry away. Considering
      the first Kreacher Harry met had chosen death over serving blood
      traitors, Harry was once again reminded that this was a completely
      different dimension with a different history.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a loud screech of metal dragging across metal from
      upstairs. Harry decided to go get some breakfast and begin the
      search for his godfather. He would put off to later the decision of
      ever returning to Grimmauld Place again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry located his satchel, cast a cleaning charm over his robes,
      and focused on Diagon Alley. With a soft pop he apparated away,
      reappearing in the magical alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With practiced ease, Harry took stock of his surroundings,
      seeing no immediate threats. There were a few people walking
      around, but not an exorbitant amount. There wasn't a strong sense
      of impending doom, but this wasn't the carefree relaxation that
      Wizarding Britain had become after the destruction of his world's
      Voldemort. Those people had been too relaxed and complacent. The
      people Harry saw here were cautious and aware, many of them
      sneaking glances at him before moving along to continue their
      business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unsure what to make of this, Harry ventured towards the center
      of the Alley, and spotted a diner with patio seating. It looked
      pretty busy which was what Harry was looking for. He bought a copy
      of the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> at the front counter and was seated
      outdoors, with his back to a wall, so he could watch the people in
      the alley while listening in to others' conversations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He ordered a simple breakfast platter, and was keeping his eyes
      and ears open. Sipping on his juice, Harry opened the <em class="calibre8">Daily
      Prophet</em> and saw the front page. June 6, 2006 was the date
      indicating he hadn't moved temporally at all through the Exit. The
      entire front page was devoted to England's chances in the upcoming
      Quidditch World Cup. There were articles on the team, the event,
      the competition, but not a single mention of Death Eaters or
      Voldemort. Harry took this as a good sign.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He watched a familiar brown-haired woman walk into the
      apothecary across the street unable to connect a name to her face,
      but pretty sure she had been a year behind him and a Hufflepuff. He
      continued eating and flipping through the paper when a small
      article caught his eye and Harry began to choke. Apparently Death
      Eater attacks didn't warrant the front page. Or any of the first
      six pages for that matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Careful there, buddy," a man who had been seated next to him
      said. He began to pat Harry on the back to keep him from
      choking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Harry said getting a hold of himself. One or two
      sudden realizations were understandable, but to find out Death
      Eater attacks didn't warrant the front page, to find out that
      Voldemort was still around, that the muggles in the article were
      Vernon and Petunia Dursley, and that the Assistant Director of the
      Department of Magical Law Enforcement, James Potter, had intervened
      caused Harry to gasp in the middle of swallowing. "Sorry. Went down
      the wrong pipe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Breakfast can be a tricky mistress," the man said with a
      smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry recognized the man seated next to him despite not having
      seen him in over a decade. "It's the forks that trip me up. I keep
      grabbing the wrong end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As long as you remember which hole in your face to put the
      food, you should be okay," the man nodded extending his hand in
      greeting. "Florean Fortescue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his hand. "I'm Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't we all?" Florean retorted before glancing at Harry's
      table. "You want some company?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Harry said eager to get a few answers from someone he
      relatively trusted and was obviously willing to talk. He moved his
      newspaper out of the way while Florean brought his plate over with
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what did you read that caused you to inhale your scrambled
      eggs?" Florean asked as he took advantage of the better jams on
      Harry's table. He looked up and saw Harry staring at him curiously.
      "I happened to be looking over when your eyes went wide and you
      began to choke."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, though erring on the side of caution. "I was
      surprised to read about a Death Eater attack to be honest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Florean asked curiously. "What was so surprising about
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I know I've got the accent nailed," Harry grinned. "But
      I'm not actually from around here. And considering I remembered
      something about an attack many years ago, I was surprised they were
      still going on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Florean shook his head. "They're sporadic, but they've been
      around for what feels like as long as I can remember. It's been
      years since my shop had any spell damage I needed repaired, but the
      threat is always there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't seem to let it get you down," Harry commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I sell ice cream," Florean grinned. "All I deal in are
      smiles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never had the taint of the war darken your doorstep?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"War?" Florean asked curiously in between bites of breakfast.
      "What war? The Death Eaters and the Dark Lord are terrorists,
      thugs, at best. A couple of my neighbors were killed in an attack.
      It wasn't some glorious battle nor was their home part of some
      strategic plan. It was just an attack. Too many good people have
      been caught in attacks, but to call what those terrorists do a
      <em class="calibre8">war</em> gives them a respect they've not earned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I'm sorry to hear that. About your neighbors I
      mean. It's probably the fact that it's not descended into all out
      war that's kept the whole thing going for so long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Florean was wiping his mouth having finished his meal. "You
      certainly have interesting ideas about pleasant breakfast
      conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My apologies," Harry nodded. "You asked what startled me in the
      paper and my mind likes to go off on tangents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No apology needed," Florean waved him off. "I wasn't bothered
      in the slightest. But I should get back and prep my store for
      opening. It's been a pleasure, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One last question," Harry interjected. "If you don't mind
      humoring me, but have you by chance seen Sirius Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The new one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to mask his surprise. "There's more than one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius Black was a young man murdered twenty-five years ago,"
      Florean explained swinging his cloak over his shoulders. "But
      another man with that name came into my shop just about a week ago
      with his cousin, Auror Tonks-Lupin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Harry smiled. "Good luck on dealing with only
      smiles today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Florean looked at the sky and saw the sun was shining brightly.
      "It's going to be a hot one. I doubt I'll need luck to have a very
      busy and profitable day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched the pleasant man walk briskly down the alley
      towards the ice cream parlor and thought about his first solid
      lead. It appeared that as much as things change, some things, like
      Tonks and Moony, stay the same no matter what dimension you land
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry left a galleon and seven sickles to cover his breakfast
      and tip. He had to be careful with his money as he didn't have much
      with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the good wizarding records for locating someone often
      required identification and were handled at the Ministry, which was
      not a place Harry wanted to go if he didn't have to. Thus he began
      walking towards the Leaky Cauldron intent on venturing out into
      non-magical London.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"G'morning, Tom," Harry greeted as he walked into the Leaky
      Cauldron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Morning," Tom nodded looking at Harry curiously unable to
      recognize him. "Anything I can do for you, Mr.…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry's fine," Harry said extending his hand to shake. "And I
      was hoping you might have a phone book and a phone I could
      use?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you want a room, local calls are included but otherwise, the
      pay phone right out front has a book," Tom said pointing towards
      the street. "I check every morning to make sure no one's run off
      with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Harry nodded and walked out into the muggle side of
      London. He picked up the phone book and quickly flipped to the
      <em class="calibre8">L</em> section. Just as he'd hoped <em class="calibre8">Lupin, Remus</em> was
      listed but not at any address Harry remembered. He picked up the
      phone and dialed the number letting it ring for twenty seconds
      before admitting defeat that no one was answering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked back into the Leaky Cauldron. "I don't suppose you
      know where Old Ford Road is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Runs through Bethnal Green as I recall," Tom answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There an apparition point there?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom nodded. "Sure. Probably will drop ya at the tube station,
      but it'll get you close."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Harry nodded and walked out. He made sure he was clear
      of any wards on the Leaky Cauldron and out of view from any
      muggles. Focusing on Bethnal Green, Harry apparated away. He got
      directions from a young woman in the tube station and found himself
      walking down the road listed as Remus' address.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't remember the numbers other than a three and a
      seven were involved so he cast the spell that would allow him to
      see magic. He began walking down the road, directly across from a
      nicely wooded park when he noticed a cellar glowing with magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was going to investigate and see if this was the place
      when he spotted a large black dog, sunning itself in the park
      across the street. His face split into a bright grin as he walked
      up to the extremely familiar mutt that was obliviously licking
      himself in a potentially embarrassing fashion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know I think it's as clean as it's going to get," Harry
      stated having successfully snuck up on the dog.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The grim-looking canine stopped immediately, lifted his head,
      and slowly turned towards the vaguely recognizable voice with an
      expression as close to surprise as a dog could possibly have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Crikey</em>, Padfoot!" Harry yelped throwing an arm up to
      cover his eyes. "Put that lipstick away."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
