<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TWENTY THREE, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 23</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: Look at that! I got an
      update in less than two months after the last. Okay, that's not
      really worth cheering about. But if you want something that is
      worth cheering about, try this: the hysterectomy went off
      wonderfully and with the uterus went all of my Mom's cancer. There
      was a post-op wrinkle with some diabetic gastroparesis, but that's
      under control now too. Food is being digested, the uncontrollable
      puking has stopped, all good things. She's doing well, fully
      capable of taking care of herself. Well, close enough to fully. I
      still have to help her change light bulbs, take her trash to the
      dump, and generally lift heavy objects or reach things on the top
      shelf. But she'll be back in her classroom and teaching again in
      just over a week.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This also means I really will have most of my free time once
      again. Hopefully this chapter marks the beginning of regular
      updates once more. I'm not prepared to promise an update (as I hate
      when those promises aren't kept), but it's not unreasonable to look
      for the next chapter in a week or two. Hopefully. All reviews are
      read and appreciated. Any questions you have, I will try to answer
      (unless you just want the ending spoiled, no luck there). Big
      thanks to the folks who help me iron out the rough stuff: IP, Jim,
      Chuck, Rob, and everyone else. And thanks to everyone for their
      patience these last few months. Now let's see if we can't finish up
      this fic in the next few weeks.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Jimmy walked down the path from Hogwarts silently.
      Harry wasn't saying anything, and Jimmy was trying his best not to
      jump in front of Harry and shake the answers out of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy nodded in understanding and kept quiet for about five
      seconds. "Can I ask when?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced over and answered, "When we're drunk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy frowned. "I'm not sure I-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">When we're drunk</em>," Harry repeated forcefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Jimmy agreed. He held his tongue for almost ten seconds
      this time. "Are you going to obliviate me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced. "The odds of your memory staying intact are better
      if we're drunk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Works for me," Jimmy happily jumped onboard with the drinking
      plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if I'm drunk," Harry helpfully added, "the odds are also
      higher that a memory charm won't stick for long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds good," Jimmy agreed, keeping up with Harry's brisk
      pace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry admitted, "I suppose the same could be said of the odds
      that I'll memory charm a little too much. Like a year or
      three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not so good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged with a smile as they reached the main street in
      Hogsmeade. They both slowed down when they spotted Sirius chatting
      up a couple of ladies in the middle of the village.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry slowly answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they got closer they saw Sirius was pushing a mentally
      challenged-looking man with thick bulbous goggles and a red plastic
      helmet around in a wheelchair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Jimmy worriedly. "Sirius is <em class="calibre8">so</em> going
      to hell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy opened his mouth and then closed it. He feebly argued,
      "There could be a completely rational explanation for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their conversation was interrupted by a sudden exclamation from
      the helmeted blonde in the wheelchair. "I was born Lucius Malfoy,
      Junior!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Jimmy conceded. "You're right. Hell it is. But probably
      a funny hell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black," Harry loudly greeted as he and Jimmy walked
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black," Sirius cheerfully replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hell-low!" the special needs man shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello," Sirius and the two ladies with him happily echoed
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was born Lucius Malfoy, Junior!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Harry agreed before turning to address his widely
      smiling godfather. "Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius made an exaggerated show of looking at his watch. "You
      know what? It's probably time I got Squibby back to his secret room
      at St. Mungo's. You ready to go home, Squibby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hell-low!" the man bellowed affirmatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's been a pleasure meeting you Nancy, Sophie," Sirius bid
      goodbye with a nod. "Say goodbye, Squibby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hell-low!" he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye, you cutie," the two women said bending down to squeeze
      the wheelchair bound man's cheek. "Such a heartbreaker you
      are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was born Lucius Malfoy, Junior!" he shouted as Sirius wheeled
      him away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Jimmy followed behind Sirius, both slightly shocked
      and impressed by the depth of Sirius' depravity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They passed by a young girl, running around frantically and
      sniffling. "Sugarplum? Sugarplum, where are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once they were around a corner and out of sight, Harry finally
      asked the question. "Okay, first, <em class="calibre8">wow</em>. And second,
      what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you I'd wait for you in Hogsmeade," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "No. You didn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Sirius frowned pulling the helmet and goggles off the
      blonde man's head. "I suppose that explains why you were taking so
      long." Sirius hunched down in front of the patiently sitting man.
      He spread two fingers and closed his eyelids, releasing a dark
      control spell. He looked up towards Harry and admitted. "I got a
      little bored waiting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Jimmy merely observed curiously as Sirius reversed the
      transfiguration on the quietly idle blonde man in the wheelchair,
      turning him into an adorable golden retriever puppy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius set the puppy on the ground before shrinking and
      pocketing the helmet, goggles, and wheelchair. Sirius picked up the
      puppy and looked it right in the eye. "You did real good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The puppy responded with several happy licks of Sirius'
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Jimmy followed Sirius as he walked back out from the
      alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius lifted the puppy high in the air. "Anybody lose a puppy?
      Anyone?" Sirius spotted the crying girl down the street, but
      avoided making eye contact as he yelled louder. "Anyone lose a
      puppy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Jimmy saw the girl's face explode in joy. "Sugarplum!"
      she shouted running towards Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does this adorable little furball belong to you?" Sirius said
      squatting down and holding out the puppy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Sugarplum," She yelled grabbing and hugging her doggie
      around the neck. "Where did you run off to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Jimmy was as tempted to anwswer as he was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how did you get off your leash? I double-knotted it," the
      girl questioned her doggie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy had to look away and cover his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Sirius suggested. "Some puppies behave better and
      return when called if you don't keep them on a leash at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Woof</em>!" The puppy happily agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl turned to Sirius in surprise having forgotten he was
      there. She lunged forward and hugged Sirius. "Thank you for saving
      Sugarplum. You're my hero." She let go of Sirius and ran the other
      way, holding her puppy tight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Jimmy stood there quietly as Sirius looked
      inordinately pleased with himself. "It feels good to be a
      hero."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy snorted while Harry turned towards the Hog's Head and
      grumbled. "Let's get this boy liquored up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius flashed a thumbs up and hurried to lead the way. "You
      know Squibby McNosonofmine was the first born of Narcissa, a Black.
      That makes you Squibby's Lord too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice subtle name," Harry replied before whispering to Jimmy.
      Jimmy nodded and said, "So my brother tells me your wand
      whistles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stopped and spun around. "It does <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      whistle!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy glanced at Harry who just mouthed, 'Wait for it.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry in confusion. "What did you tell…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Sirius had paused. Harry repeated quietly, "Wait for
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on a second," Sirius yelped in realization. "Did you say…
      did you say… <em class="calibre8">wand</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. "He's drunk already because a sober
      Sirius isn't this quick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi!" Sirius exclaimed before pausing. "I wouldn't be so drunk
      if you hadn't made me wait so long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced significantly at Sirius before turning back
      towards the pub at the end of the alley.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I was sober when I made the decision to wait, so
      never mind. Brother, huh?" Sirius asked with a grin falling in step
      next to Jimmy. "Did Harry give in and tell you or did he just mess
      up and say the wrong thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't mess up," Harry retorted without even turning to face
      them. "He had the map."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Marauder's Map?" Sirius excitedly asked. "I can't believe
      your old man let you have such an 'evil and dangerous' tool."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remus gave it to me," Jimmy answered before narrowing his eyes
      at Sirius. "How do you know about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Know about it?" Sirius repeated indignantly. "It's in my
      handwriting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy stopped in sudden realization. He hurried to catch up to
      the Lord Blacks. "Wait, you're Padfoot? That Sirius Black?" Jimmy
      jumped in surprise exclaiming loudly, "You're the one who kidnapped
      my brother!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spun around and cast a silencing charm on Jimmy. "Okay.
      You're done talking until we're behind a privacy ward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned at Jimmy. "And you're way off base."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast another silencing charm, this time on Sirius. "If I
      have to stun either of you, it's going to mean a midget
      detention."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy shook his head despite having no clue what that meant,
      only that it sounded unnatural and appeared to have genuinely
      frightened Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two silenced wizards followed Harry into the bar making
      faces at his back the whole way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Gin," Harry asked grabbing her attention. "You got a
      private room we could borrow for a bit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin Weasley quickly closed the latest issue of Witches Weekly
      that she had hidden inside a supply catalog. "Umm…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw her blushing and smirked. "What were you reading?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin was not about to admit that she was checking out topless
      photos of Sirius and Harry from when they were getting healed in
      front of the Wizengamot. "No private room, but you can go in back
      and throw up a couple wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks Gin," Harry said and turned towards Sirius and Jimmy.
      Sirius was watching Jimmy stare dreamily at the woman behind the
      bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin flashed a warm smile at the youngest Potter. "Hello
      James."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy tried to greet her back but only looked silly mouthing
      words underneath a silencing charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Jimmy and translated. "He said 'Hi Gin. Your
      breasts look like a pair of pregnant house elves in that halter
      top.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy shook his head vigorously and gesturing his innocence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made a face of confusion at Jimmy. "She <em class="calibre8">Fawkes</em>
      like a porn star? What the hell does the Headmaster's phoenix have
      to do with anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin groaned as she jerked her thumb towards the back room. "Go
      in the back. Maybe try and find a sense of humor while you're back
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy took a step forward trying to silently apologize to Gin
      but slipped on a conveniently placed patch of ice. He flipped
      forward over a stool and slammed his face on the bar with a fleshy
      splat. Jimmy's mouth was open in a silent scream. An unmistakable
      <em class="calibre8">whoomph</em> soundaccompanied Jimmy's legs and bottom half
      lifting off the ground as the charm on the bar top triggered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin winced and thought she saw tears forming in Jimmy's eyes.
      Sirius who had by then countered his silencing charm, helpfully
      voiced, "That looked like it hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded in certain agreement. "Can we get a bag of ice and
      a bottle of firewhiskey?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin handed them over towards Harry while Sirius helped Jimmy
      waddle towards the back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius canceled the silencing charm on Jimmy and put up some
      sturdy privacy wards. Harry entered the protected area and saw
      Jimmy looking at him with a weak smile. "Tonks warned me I should
      wear a cup around you guys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Catch," Harry instructed pretending to chuck the bag of ice
      towards Jimmy. In truth an invisible hand was carrying it and
      deftly dodged around Jimmy's attempt to catch the ice. It tapped
      Jimmy on the nose and hovered just in front of his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy snatched the floating bag of ice and put it on his cheek.
      "You're mean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is," Sirius agreed, carrying back the three cleanest glasses
      he could locate. "Very mean."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy moved the ice from his cheek to his crotch and let out a
      sigh of relief. "You think maybe Gin didn't notice me hitting my
      face and getting nutted?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head sadly. "Kind of doubt it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She probably noticed your tears too," Sirius added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy indignantly explained, "It was just the fumes in my eyes.
      I wasn't crying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fumes," Sirius repeated in admiration. "That's a good one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Jimmy agreed. "When I was a kid I used the old
      'bug-in-the-eye' excuse but no one ever believes that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grumbled at the victorious grin on Harry's face. "Shut
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy accepted the floating half-filled glass of firewhiskey and
      took a sip. He swallowed painfully but managed to keep himself from
      coughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Extra obliviate juice in yours," Harry said with a wink.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy looked in his glass and challengingly smirked at Harry. He
      tipped the glass back and finished off the rest of it in one
      gulp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry saw Jimmy pale for a split second as he dropped
      the bag of ice. He coughed violently once and his head was
      surrounded by a fireball. A cloud of smoke dissipated revealing
      Jimmy's reddened face. The top of his head was smoldering as dark
      vapors trickled out his nose, ears, and mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two Lord Blacks shared a look of immense amusement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's such a Potter," Sirius happily exclaimed as Jimmy was
      patting his hair, stamping out any fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoa," Jimmy said as he took a step. "I feel dizzy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That can happen," Sirius agreed with a chuckle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's magical arms grabbed a chair and maneuvered it right
      behind Jimmy. "Have a seat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy nodded gratefully and glanced at the chair behind him. He
      turned back to Harry and pointed. "You're not gonna move it on me,
      are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held his hands up, promising not to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy bent his knees and sat back in the chair just as it was
      yanked out from under him. He fell on his bum hard enough to rattle
      the nearby shelves. "Oh come on," Jimmy complained wondering how
      he'd managed to get beat up and drunk in a span of minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius cheerfully displayed his wand. "He didn't move it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should have guessed," Jimmy grumbled pulling the chair closer
      and gripping it tightly as he sat down. "I thought I heard a
      whistle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Sirius whined, showing his first wand. "This isn't the
      wand that whistles. This is my old one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Sirius, holding back his laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean my wand doesn't whi-" Sirius snapped. "Oh, screw you
      both."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Jimmy happily realized. "That'd be incest," he exclaimed
      waving his hand between Harry and himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not exactly," Harry corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it would be gross," Sirius added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Jimmy asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius answered without hesitation. "I know sword-fighting may
      look manly and all-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not you," Jimmy interrupted. "Harry, what do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was slightly curious about what Sirius was going to say
      but answered, "Your older brother, Harry, died a long time ago. I'm
      Harry Potter, just a different one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy scratched his head in confusion. "Like a cousin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took a drink of his firewhiskey and sighed. "This could
      take a while."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Gin glanced at her watch and realized it'd been a couple of
      hours since the three Potters and Blacks took over her store room.
      "Hey Moe?"</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm gonna step in the back. Give a shout if anyone comes in,
      would you?" She heard a grunt of assent from Moe as she stealthily
      crept down the back hall. The eerie quiet pointed towards silencing
      charm and she was hoping to avoid interrupting a touching family
      moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She crossed through an outer edge of wards and heard voices
      snickering and laughing between whispers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shh! Come on, come on. Hurry up, she's coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another snort of amusement was released before a different
      voice. "I'm almost done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin whipped her head around the corner with a stern frown on her
      face. Her eyes widened at the sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was capping a magical marker and spun around smiling
      innocently. The illusion of innocence was broken as he moved out of
      the way revealing an unconscious seventh year Hogwarts student.
      Jimmy's head was tilted to the side while a long string of drool
      connected the corner of his open mouth to his shoulder. He had been
      stripped down to his boxers and written across his chest was a
      message: <em class="calibre8">I slept with Gin Weasley and all I got was one lousy
      memory charm (and a little itching no one can explain).</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please tell me that's not permanent," Gin said with a tiny
      sigh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not permanent," Harry and Sirius happily replied in
      unison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rolled her eyes. "You could make an effort to lie to me, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You look really pretty in that top," Harry effortlessly lied.
      "Not even a little skanky."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Real nice," she grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've lost weight, haven't you?" Sirius added with a waggle of
      his finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watch it," Gin warned with a harsh poke of Sirius' shoulder.
      She grabbed the permanent marker from his hand. A twist of her wand
      and the drooling prone form of Jimmy Potter floated up and turned
      around, slumped over his belly on the chair. A slow drip of drool
      stretched to the floor while he continued to snore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin tugged the waistband of his boxers down and signed her name
      right across his pale exposed butt cheek. She pulled his drawers
      back up and smiled at the Lord Blacks. "Adding a touch of
      authenticity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smirked at her. "You just like making the seventh years
      blush."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such is the lonely life of a young gorgeous bartender next to a
      school full of hormonal teenagers," Gin forlornly explained. She
      started to walk back to the front of the Hog's Head and added, "If
      you get him inside the Hogwarts grounds, you can call for Sully.
      He's a house elf who takes students back to their beds safely and
      quietly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry picked up Jimmy with a pair of invisible arms while Sirius
      brought down the rest of wards. The mostly naked slumbering form of
      the Hogwarts Head Boy missed out on the applause his exit of shame
      earned him while Harry and Sirius waved good night to Gin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They paraded Jimmy down the street towards the path to Hogwarts.
      As soon as they crossed the primary wards, Sirius beckoned,
      "Sully!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house-elf appeared wearing two patchwork oven mitts that had
      been stitched into a pair of overalls. He used a dirty rag to wipe
      his forehead before stuffing it in his back pocket. "You called
      Sully?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius pointed at Jimmy. "We have-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mm-hmm," Sully interrupted and agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gin said-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mm-hmm," Sully reiterated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He needs-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mm-hmm, he sure does," Sully agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually," Harry jumped in. "I-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Sully asked looking at Harry curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked and began to wonder if this house elf was using
      <em class="calibre8">Legilimency</em>. "I was going to say-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mm-hmm," Sully replied affirmatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was just," Harry stopped and non-verbally told Sully to shut
      up. "I was just thinking that instead of Sully taking Jimmy back up
      there, perhaps he should ask McGonagall to come down here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's plain mean," Sirius retorted with a smile. "Do it,
      Sully."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mm-hmm," Sully agreed, snapping his fingers and disappearing
      with a loud pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gently dropped Jimmy on his back with his arms and legs
      spread out. "Come on," Harry said with a jerk of his head. "Let's
      get back under our own wards and I'll tell you those things I
      wouldn't before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius crossed the edge of the Hogwarts' wards before Harry and
      apparated back to Grimmauld Place. He headed straight for the
      kitchen as Harry apparated in behind him. "I want some fruity
      pebbles and you said you'd tell me what you wish you hadn't told
      Albus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry followed Sirius into the kitchen and poured himself a
      glass of water. "It's not that I wish I hadn't told him. I wanted
      to know if he knew about something and he didn't, which meant I
      inadvertently gave him a pretty big clue. So now he's got some
      research to do before asking me semi-uncomfortable but inevitable
      questions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took a spoonful of his late night cereal, chewed loudly,
      and swallowed. "Are you going to keep talking in vague
      generalizations or are you going to actually explain this thing
      you've been hiding?" Sirius took another bite of pebbles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry replied. "Force of habit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crappy habit. Understandable, but crappy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry agreed. "Thing is, I asked Dumbledore if he'd
      heard about horcruxes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius swallowed the food in his mouth and furrowed his brow.
      "Those things you, Ron, and Hermione hunted?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "How much do <em class="calibre8">you</em> know about
      horcruxes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dark evil magic thing, right? Something you had to do before
      you could face Voldemort. Soul magic, maybe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Close enough. The gist of it is that there's this little bonus
      ritual thing you can do when you commit a real proper cold-blooded
      murder. Killing of that kind damages your soul and you can take
      that split chunk of soul and stick it into an object."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm remembering now," Sirius recalled. "You said something
      about how as long as one of his objects exists, then he can't be
      completely killed, only his body destroyed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly," Harry agreed and attempted to subtly segue. "Now
      remember how I said those founders' items were pieces of a larger
      puzzle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Sirius answered. "You said… oh god, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean to tell me…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The larger puzzle is Voldemort's soul?" Sirius said
      incredulously. "You're kidding, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe a little," Harry carefully answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "How did I not see this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Truthfully?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not that smart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not an idiot," Sirius complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know. You're a smart guy," Harry happily offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just not <em class="calibre8">that</em> smart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius knew he should have seen that one coming. He thought back
      to the locket they found and the traps around the Grindelwald
      zombie. "But you said the pieces together would be more
      valuable…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry defended, "I think to the right buyer they'd be extremely
      valuable. Priceless, almost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't fence the Dark Lord's soul. There's bound to be a rule
      about that somewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has anyone ever tried? I mean just because no one's managed it
      yet," Harry answered a little too quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? Okay. Yeah. I'm hanging on," Harry resisted the urge to
      whistle. "And I'm acting perfectly normal too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry mimed zipping his mouth shut and stood there avoiding
      Sirius' eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was trying to pick up on the cause for Harry's continued
      distress. "What aren't you telling me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Harry agreed knocking back the rest of his water and
      wiping his mouth on his sleeve. "Voldemort made six horcruxes
      because of arithmantic properties of seven. Six separate objects
      plus him makes seven. We've got Slytherin's locket and Ravenclaw's
      cube already. The diary I expect is buried in the blood-warded safe
      at Malfoy Manor, and Hufflepuff's cup is in a cursed tomb in the
      desert. The Slytherin ring was not where it was supposed to be and
      we tripped some wards there, if you'll remember."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded and saw Harry was waiting on him. "I count five.
      What's the sixth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The sixth?" Harry admitted with a sigh. "The sixth in our old
      world was his familiar, an especially large snake named
      Nagini."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not Nagini here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "According to Bella he's never had a
      familiar, but I think the basilisk from the chamber now lives in
      the woods behind the Riddle house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Comforting thought. So is it the basilisk or do we have no idea
      what the sixth horcrux is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not the basilisk," Harry replied calmly. "I know exactly
      what the sixth horcrux is but I don't know where to look for
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "You remember that hidden cursed patch of ground
      and tree at Godric's Hollow where nothing appears to ever grow
      again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew it!" Sirius slammed his hand down happily. "I knew I
      died a special hero. So he made a horcrux when he killed me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah… no," Harry answered with a shake of his head. "You fought
      back and through some incredible stroke of luck might have even
      been a threat to him. That's probably not a clean enough murder.
      And it's nowhere near as cold-blooded as slicing open a defenseless
      baby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He killed you to make the horcrux?" Sirius whined. "Man you get
      <em class="calibre8">everything</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, he killed me," Harry admitted. "But he killed me to turn
      <em class="calibre8">your</em> skull into a horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My skull?" Sirius repeated as if testing out the words. "My
      skull is a horcrux?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty sure, yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can just imagine him—<em class="calibre8">eurgh</em>," Sirius shuddered. "I
      feel dirty. Like I can feel him inside me all writhing around…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My thoughts exactly. The fact that your skull is horcruxiotic
      is a lot like Voldemort's having sex with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius mentally reviewed his earlier choice of words. "Shut
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you picturing it too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop it," Sirius ordered while banishing all mental images from
      his mind. He looked at Harry earnestly. "You know this isn't as bad
      as I first thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The sex with-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that," Sirius interrupted. "Gathering these horcruxes. I
      mean as founders' objects they're worth a hefty coin, but knowing
      what they also are…" Sirius shrugged. "Money, power, fame, we can
      turn these into just about anything we want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was considering what Sirius said. "If word were to get out
      we could use Voldemort to drive the price up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're not selling them to him," Sirius scoffed before
      uncertainly adding, "Are we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "You know that and I know that. But our
      prospective buyers don't need to know that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smiled brightly in agreement catching onto the potential
      of the situation. "You really want to hold the Ministry hostage and
      name our own price?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really," Harry said with a smile in return. "But it's
      definitely something to think about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius eyes widened as he realized they had a guaranteed 'get
      out of jail free' card as well as a legitimate defense for their
      'necessary' thieving in the unlikely event of their capture. He
      knew this was one set he definitely wanted completed. "You ready to
      tackle the Malfoys or are we going to the desert?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Sirius wasn't even fazed and had already gotten back
      to business. "We still don't know where the skull is or where the
      ring went. So desert first and then Malfoys. Teleporting fire
      scorpions are much easier to deal with than a dark wizard with an
      overdeveloped sense of self-worth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tele-what what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Teleporting fire scorpions. There's lots of fun stuff around
      the tomb." He paused to scratch his chin. "Then again, the Fidelius
      hidden bunker was a bit different in this world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius finished off the last bite of his now soggy cereal. He
      levitated the bowl to the sink where it began to magically clean
      itself. He saw Harry looked relaxed. "Were you keeping all that
      from me because you thought I'd be upset to hear my skull is a
      horcrux?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged wondering why he'd been so hesitant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius pushed off the edge of the counter and walked out of the
      kitchen. "Merlin, you're such a woman sometimes."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Jimmy let out a whimper of pain as his older sister scrubbed
      his chest.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stay still," Sarah ordered, dipping the scouring brush in the
      magical solution.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're practically grating away my skin, like a hunk of
      cheese," Jimmy whined. "So excuse me if I'm a little twitchy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin, you're such a woman sometimes," Sarah muttered under
      her breath. "Maybe next time you'll remember not to let pretty
      girls write on you with permanent magical markers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't let anyone-" Jimmy hissed in pain as his sister
      attacked the last line across his abdomen. "And Gin didn't write
      this. It was Harry and Sirius having a laugh with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that makes it better?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I wouldn't want Gin to take advantage of me while I'm
      unconscious." Jimmy explained. "She should do it when I'm awake.
      And I have a camera."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah shook her head thinking both she and Jimmy inherited their
      perverted side from their mother. "So you'd prefer to think that
      two unmarried men, who live together, got you drunk and then after
      you passed out did something that required you to be naked." Sarah
      paused in her scrubbing. "Okay now I'm jealous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy was touching his tender skin and wincing at the rawness.
      He looked up at the Sarah worriedly. "Have you got the hots for
      Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aww," Sarah cooed. "Is my little brother scared I'm going to
      steal his new boyfriend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Jimmy snorted and sat up on the couch. "I just uh… I
      just…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax," Sarah assured him, dabbing a layer of healing potion
      over Jimmy's raw chest. "I won't let him write anything
      embarrassing on me in permanent magical marker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh good," Jimmy replied. "Because that's exactly what I was
      worried about. Are we done here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah gave his front one last cursory evaluation. "Yeah, that
      should do it. If it still looks bad in a couple weeks, we can
      scrape again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Jimmy said turning around to grab his shirt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Sarah interjected. "I thought it was only on your
      front."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not?" Jimmy asked curiously, trying to peer over his
      shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah mentally distanced herself and focused on thinking as a
      healer, not a sister. She carefully tugged at the waistband of her
      brother's boxers and peeked down. "You say this was done by the
      Lord Blacks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Jimmy answered trying to catch sight of his exposed bum.
      "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah summoned a mirror and angled it for her brother. "Because
      that looks like a woman's handwriting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy paled. "Those bastards!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah lifted up her Chimaera hair brush and shook it. "Shall we
      take care of this one now too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy frowned deep in thought before reaching a conclusion. "No,
      I think I'll keep this one for a little while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah dropped the brush back in the solution and corked the top.
      "That's just creepy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that your professional opinion?" Jimmy asked holding up the
      mirror, checking out his signed cheek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quit staring," Sarah snapped putting away her diagnostic tools.
      "No potion can fix your pale chicken butt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think if I got a red magical marker and drew a heart around
      her name…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even creepier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Jimmy admitted sadly. "I thought so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum's coming," Sarah warned as she felt a twinge from the
      perimeter charm around her private quarters. "Hi Mum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you seen your brothe-" Lily stopped when she saw her
      youngest hiding a mirror behind his back. "Jimmy, what are you
      doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why does everyone assume I'm doing something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily was watching her son slip his shirt back on, looking for
      other warning signs. "Have your memories returned to you yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't obliviated," Jimmy pleaded. "I just… thought I was
      drinking really bad water and must have had too much. That's
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really bad water, eh?" Sarah asked doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I worry about you," Lily explained. "And I talked to the
      Headmaster and he's worried too. So we're just going to check you
      for memory charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy nodded in acceptance as he tugged his shirt away from his
      body. Every time the cloth just gently touched his raw skin it
      hurt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in Headmaster," Sarah called out after the perimeter charm
      alerted her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus pushed the door open and smiled at the three Potters. "You
      know when I welcome people from the other side of the door, it's
      much more impressive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy answered without thinking. "That's probably more of a
      statement on the people at your door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James, Jr.!" Lily exclaimed scandalized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Albus said, his beard twitching in amusement. He
      tilted his head down to look at the youngest Potter over the top of
      his glasses. "Do you know why I wish to scan you for memory
      charms?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy nodded and let his irritation shine through. "Because I
      made a crack about playing the obliviation game. Yes, I remember
      the discussion and yes, I was just joking. Honestly, there aren't
      any gaps in my memory. Unless you count the one after the
      firewhisss… I mean the bad water."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice catch," Sarah jeered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Headmaster," Jimmy said while looking at his sister. "Don't
      you think Sarah and Harry would make a cute couple?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily looked a bit upset at the idea while Albus' face reflected
      many conflicting emotions. Albus carefully avoided the question and
      replied, "Why don't we get started on checking your mind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy sat down on the couch as Albus drew his wand. "Go ahead.
      You're not going to find anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing at all?" Lily asked with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what I meant," Jimmy grumbled as he felt Albus
      flittering through his mind, testing memories without actually
      viewing any of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So Mum," Sarah began seeing Albus and Jimmy were busy. "Have
      you gotten any bartenders to sign your arse in permanent magical
      marker lately?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily blinked. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy growled at his sister. "Listen, Sarah, when you're old and
      out of shape, and it seems like no one is willing to talk to you,
      other than your seventeen pet kneazles, I just want you to know
      that you can count on me to tell you the truth. You suck."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear," Albus softly added as an image flew past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oops," Jimmy answered. "I didn't mean for you to see that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily sighed and looked over at the child who would always be her
      baby. "Show me your tushy. You can pull your pants down while Albus
      scans you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy wished he'd had a sickle for every time he heard that one.
      "Now's really not the best time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus paused in his rapid fire scanning to take several long
      measured breaths. He smiled at Jimmy. "I shall leave it to your
      discretion whether you wish to turn your head and cough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Jimmy asked in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus waved him off. "My humor is lost on the wizard-raised.
      Suffice it to say muggle-borns have some rather common horror
      stories."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Jimmy repeated looking towards his mother for help as
      the Headmaster resumed his mental scan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you still have a tramp stamp let's just get it off now,"
      Lily explained unabashedly pulling at her son's pants.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum," Jimmy whined, tired of being treated like a child. "I
      don't have a tramp stamp! That's Sarah!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jimmy!" Sarah shouted in anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh please, honey," Lily interrupted looking towards her
      daughter. "Your father and I have known about your tattoo for
      years. You still have the materials for removing permanent magical
      marker?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, mum," Sarah agreed bringing over the solution and still
      moist stiff brush. She handed the covered bowl to her mother. "Why
      don't I let you have the pleasure of scrubbing this one off?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy felt Albus still rifling through his mind as he tried to
      slap his mother's hands away. "I swear Mum if you don't start
      treating me like an adult, I'm going to…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to what?" Lily asked dangerously with that 'I
      brought you into this world' tone of voice. "Find someone to write
      even cruder things on you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus held up his memory scan to look at the healing solution
      closer. "Miss Potter? What is that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what Madame Pomfrey told me to use," Sarah admitted. "A
      rejuvenating elixir mixed with a dash of thickening potion. And she
      said you get best results with a Chimaera hair brush."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus glanced at Jimmy with a twinkle in his eye and pity on his
      face. "I believe Madame Pomfrey meant a Chimaera hairbrush, not a
      'Chimaera hair' brush."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah's confidence faltered. "Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Chimaera's were created long ago and have physically evolved.
      They are solitary creatures with the body of a goat, the tail of a
      dragon, and the head of a lion, a pack animal who's grooming issues
      are traditionally dealt with by other members of the pack. The
      Chimaera had to adapt. As a result the scales at the end of a
      Chimaera's tail evolved magical teeth that can be used for
      grooming. They are extremely useful for being gentle and firm at
      the same time, strength without damaging."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore smiled. "A scale with working magical teeth is called
      a Chimaera's comb or a Chimaera's hairbrush. That," Dumbledore said
      pointing towards the solution and scrub brush, "appears to be a
      brush made of Chimaera hair. Which are usually very coarse and I
      would suspect uncomfortable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Sarah said wincing at the incredulous look her brother was
      giving her. "Sorry about that. I'm just an apprentice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry?" Jimmy squeaked. "<em class="calibre8">Sorry</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily hoped there was no lasting harm done but felt her son
      deserved it for not going to the proper school nurse. "What do you
      use a brush of Chimaera hair for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, obviously, you could use one to remove permanent marker
      from skin," Albus offered waving airily towards the indignant Head
      Boy. "But perhaps the most common use of one would be to sand down
      the calluses on Giants' feet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I'm going to be sick," Jimmy said closing his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sarah said with a shrug. "That brush didn't look new
      either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus cheerfully took the conversation in another direction. "I
      am pleasantly surprised to announce that you do not have any new
      memory charms on you at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See?" Jimmy said shaking his finger at his mother and
      Headmaster. "I told you I didn't have any mem-… wait, <em class="calibre8">new</em>?
      What do you mean new?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah was never one to pass on a chance to mock her little
      brother and audibly sighed. "We might as well tell him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily just raised a curious eyebrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thing is, Jimmy, until that potions accident when you were
      five… well, you used to be a girl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lies," Jimmy retorted after momentarily entertaining the idea.
      "All lies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were best the little sister I could've hoped for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy shook his head, not rising to the bait.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus cleared his throat and added, "I meant 'new' in that I was
      only searching for signs of recent alterations, the past year or
      two. The older the charm, the deeper you must scan to locate it. I
      also couldn't help but notice there didn't appear to be any recent
      binding oaths or compulsion charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy was getting irritated. "Harry and Sirius are nice guys.
      They're not abusing me, obliviating me, or touching me in a way
      that would require a demonstration doll in court, okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you are free to speak about anything you wish?" Albus asked
      giving Jimmy a significant look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Jimmy said. "I am."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus glanced at the two female Potters before inquiring. "And
      is there anything you have to say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy caught on to what Albus was urging him to do and smiled.
      "Nope. Sorry, Headmaster. Nothing to say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus just smiled back and nodded in understanding. His smile
      dropped and he let out a small sigh. "Damn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that?" Lily asked looking between the two of them
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing!" Jimmy and Albus both answered immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing?" Lily repeated with her hands on her hips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus and Jimmy shook their heads negatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing to explain justifying your behavior? Nothing to add at
      all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy shook his head. "Nope. Oh!" he suddenly recalled. "Except
      that please, please let's not mention anything to Dad about the
      firewhiskey? Please?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean the 'really bad water,' don't you?" Sarah said with a
      grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah," Jimmy admitted. "I kinda gave up on that one, didn't
      I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily sat down next to her son. "Too bad, because you had me
      fooled."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Jimmy asked before noticing the look his mother gave
      him. "Right. I'll shut up now."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Where are we?" Sirius asked looking around in all
      directions.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're in the middle of the desert," Harry replied. "How much
      more do you need to know than that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius span around in a circle. "It's just sand as far as the
      eye can see in every direction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surprise," Harry said, mocking Sirius' wonder. He pulled out a
      timer and floppy hat to protect him from the sun. He put on the
      hat, set the timer and shoved it back in his pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know which way to go?" Sirius asked. "I mean we
      could walk in circles and never even know it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up and pointed. "We need to walk for thirty minutes
      in that direction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius squinted towards where Harry indicated. "You're
      sure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and pulled out a bottle of water. He slung his
      large bag over his shoulder. "Positive. Now let's go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius put on his newly purchased sunglasses and fell into step
      with Harry. "Of course our luck would mean we have to walk towards
      the sun," Sirius grumbled. "How are you so sure this is the right
      direction? Didn't you say you'd no idea where we were apparating
      to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you don't know where we are but you know where we need to
      go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you messing with me like that stuff about why we have to
      walk and can't use brooms?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if you don't know where we are, how do you know that's the
      direction?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because the tomb isn't located in any specific location."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It moves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how do you get to a tomb that moves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are lots of ways. It mainly depends on the magic of the
      tomb."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about this one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This one appears only if you're lost in the Sahara desert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then you have to meet a couple of other requirements. The
      first of which is that you must walk. No riding in a jeep, no
      riding on a broom, no riding on a cheetah with a catnip
      muzzle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The magic can check that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The magic can check that. And can you guess what other
      requirements there are?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You gotta walk for thirty minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's correct. And I bet you can guess in what direction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, now you're just fucking with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced over at Sirius but kept walking straight towards
      the sun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're telling me this cursed tomb only appears after you get
      lost in the desert and then walk <em class="calibre8">towards</em> the sun for
      thirty minutes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cruel bastard, ain't he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's horrible. That's awful. Can't we just wrestle a dragon
      or something?" Sirius pleaded wiping the sweat from his
      forehead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked. "If you'd like, that could be arranged too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stayed quiet as the pair kept walking towards the sun. He
      grabbed Harry's bottle of water and took a drink. He tried to hand
      it back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keep it," Harry said with his eyes focused forward. "I've got
      more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took another drink of water and wondered if this was the
      longest half hour of his life. "You said there are traps?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Many. You got your gillyweed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked inside his cloak. "Check."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your antidotes and anti-venom pack?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Check."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your crucifixes and bibles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Check."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly two and a quarter kilograms of petroleum jelly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Check."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many flame-freezing charms have you stored up to trigger
      wandlessly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You said I'd need at least five. So I layered in twenty, two at
      a time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent. What do you do when you hear the singing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cover my ears."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you see the naked women? Or possibly poodles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cover my eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you cross the underground river filled with candiru?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius angrily snarled. "I'm going to crispy fry every last one
      of those motherfuckers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I was looking for pucker and cover but that
      works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A loud beeping began to emanate from Harry's pocket. He pulled
      out the timer and turned it off. "Okay now, you're going to begin
      to feel tension inside of you building. Your magic is going to want
      you to react. Do not cast any magic at all. Just keep walking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius winced as his magic began to itch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eventually your magic is going to hit a point and react on its
      own. When that happens, everything will go black and you're gonna
      fall. You've got about two seconds to cast a cushioning charm,
      repelling charm, something, or else you're gonna get skewered on
      bone spikes. Move forward on the ground until you reach a fork in
      the road and wait. We'll meet up there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius hissed out through clenched teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't cast anything, Padfoot. And don't transform either. No
      magic!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I thought you should know… I mean, I…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced as he kept walking, fighting his own impulse to
      veer from this path. "Waited until the last moment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well maybe if you'd let me finish I could-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't blame this on me. If it was important enough to mention,
      you should have said something earlier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're unbelievable. This conversation could have been over
      five times already but you just can't let it go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just say what you wanted to, you ignorant buttnug-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the sand exploded into darkness and swallowed them
      whole.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
