<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s25" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 24</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: Took a little longer than
      I'd hoped, but this chapter is super-sized at over 10,000 words and
      I had to rewrite several parts. Still was less than two weeks since
      the last update, so I think I'll stop wasting people's time with
      unnecessary author's notes now that I'm back into a
      writing-friendly routine. Big thanks to IP, Rob, Chuck, and
      everyone else who helped me get this chapter in line. Reviews make
      the writing muse happy.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh my freakin' head," Sirius muttered as he slowly regained
      consciousness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius?" Harry asked from the foot of his godfather's hospital
      bed. "Can you hear me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh my freakin' ears," Sirius grumbled in discomfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too loud?" Harry asked softer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius blearily looked towards Harry's voice. "Oh my freakin'
      eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too bright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I just looked at your face."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Armstrong had quickly responded to the summons and
      entered the private room at St. Mungo's Hospital for Magical
      Maladies and Injuries. "I see my most deviant patient of the day is
      finally awake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We might need more Skele-gro," Harry grunted. "I think Sirius
      here lost his funny bone too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh my freakin' god," Sirius groaned. "That was horrible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Armstrong glanced at Harry. "I'm inclined to agree with
      the patient. His sense of humor seems to be functioning quite
      well." He didn't give Harry a chance to pout, before addressing
      Sirius. "How are you feeling?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unable to resist, Sirius happily replied, "With my fingers for
      the most part."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps I spoke too soon," Healer Armstrong frowned. "We'll
      have to have that funny bone looked at." His expression quickly
      turned professional. "Aches and soreness are expected but should be
      mild. Are you in any pain?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sore, no sharp or specific pain," Sirius said tilting his head.
      "But I can't move my body at all. What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the last thing you remember?" Healer Armstrong asked,
      triggering the memories to come to the fore of Sirius'
      consciousness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh sweet Merlin," Sirius' eyes widened remembering their
      retrieval of the horcrux. "I-<em class="calibre8">mmph</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' words were muffled as Harry had slapped a hand over
      Sirius' mouth. "He remembers," Harry assured the healer before
      berating his godfather. "Sirius, don't say anything stupid.
      Hippocratic oath protections and all." Harry turned to the healer
      and innocently added, "Not that I would ever modify anyone's memory
      without consent or going through the proper Ministry approved
      procedure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Healer Armstrong replied in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" Sirius loudly interrupted. "Unable to move? Anyone?
      Anyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your legs were severely damaged, Lord Black," the healer
      explained. "The injuries were serious enough that we were forced to
      vanish all the bones from your pelvis down and grow them back. The
      tissue damage varied-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh god, oh god," Sirius started to panic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your penis is fine," Harry exasperatedly assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius let out a long breath, before a thought crossed his mind.
      "Wait!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Testiculars too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sighed in relaxation. "Phew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Armstrong continued, "The point being that you have to be
      briefed on your situation before you unknowingly put too much
      stress on the extremely brittle bones. I will remove the paralysis
      as long as you don't get out of your bed or do anything that will
      jeopardize your healing. Sitting up, leaning over, and only the
      smallest pieces of magic are acceptable but nothing to disturb your
      legs. Nothing at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I got it. Please, remove the paralysis," Sirius asked. "I need
      to know that he's okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The healer touched his wand to the hospital bed and Sirius' arms
      sprung free. His upper torso pitched forward as his hand wriggled
      underneath his hospital gown and headed straight for his crotch.
      "One of those, one-two… and a half of those. Okay we're good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could you stop touching there?" Harry said snapping Sirius back
      to reality, after it appeared that the older Lord Black forgot
      others were in the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before I forget," Sirius said turning towards Harry. "I figured
      out how we're going to break into-<em class="calibre8">mmph</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He must be delirious still," Harry said, halfway smothering his
      godfather while smiling at the healer. "Could you give us a few
      minutes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Healer Armstrong closed up the folder he was noting his
      observations in. "Actually, my day ended a few minutes ago. Madame
      Archer will be here to assist you overnight should you need it.
      When I return tomorrow morning Lord Black should be ready to try
      standing again." He turned to Sirius and addressed him sternly.
      "You are not to attempt putting any weight on your legs.
      Understood?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Mmmph-mmph</em>," Sirius said with a nod, in spite of
      Harry's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have my emergency buzzer," Healer Armstrong nodded goodbye
      to the Lord Blacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry removed his hand and tossed up some extra privacy wards.
      "It's safe to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius huffed. "So you're really, <em class="calibre8">really</em> sure that left
      is the way to go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It <em class="calibre8">was</em> the way to go. We got the horcrux and we got
      out. You were the idiot," Harry scolded while wiping the spittle
      off his licked hand. "And didn't you have something to say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried repeating Sirius' own words. "Before you forget, you
      figured out…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius blinked. "Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat down in the squeaky chair facing Sirius' bed. He
      assumed Sirius would remember what he meant to say if it was
      important enough. "Do you not recall when I asked at the start if
      you had exactly two and a quarter kilograms of petroleum
      jelly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius admitted. "But I figured a quarter is just a
      rough estimate. It's not an exact amount."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you think I used the word <em class="calibre8">exactly</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't say '<em class="calibre8">exactly</em> exactly.' You just said
      'exactly.' Like it can't be two or two and a half, it's gotta be
      right around two and a quarter. Roughly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padfoot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe if you'd been a little clearer," Sirius gave up his
      argument when he saw Harry was unconvinced. "So the thing is…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the place," Harry assured him. "With the other two
      things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three down," Sirius summarized. "Three to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave in to his curiosity and asked the question that had
      been bothering him. "So what did you use the petroleum jelly for?
      Because I know I gave you the right amount."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snickered in memory. "I coated the entire floor of
      Moony's bathroom with it while he was in the shower. He grabbed his
      towel and stepped out of the tub." Sirius was outright laughing by
      now. "Just slipping and sliding everywhere, arms flailing. He even
      bruised his tailbone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head and reminded, "You've had to
      <em class="calibre8">regrow</em> your tailbone, along with dozens of others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius paused and broke out a smile. "Still worth it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're an idiot," Harry retorted. "And you took some of my
      petroleum jelly trying to even yours out. You could've killed
      me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius wiggled as he sat up. "How'd you get us out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I snagged enough of your petroleum jelly to get me to exactly
      two and a quarter kilograms and then I just powered us the hell out
      of there. That thing was going to kill you, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius winced at the memory. "How was I supposed to know that a
      freakin' Giant could uproot a tree and start casting with it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "You know we can't tell anyone where we really
      were."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had to make up a story for the hospital records."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you tell them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed his delight and calmly answered, "I merely told
      them you were experimenting with the effects of love potions on
      bludgers. That's why I didn't check up on all the pounding sounds
      until after three hours had passed and your legs looked like a
      couple of dragon hairballs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vivid visual," Sirius commented, glancing down at his heavily
      wrapped legs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've been out for four days," Harry explained and pointed
      towards the counter by the sink. "You got some get well soon
      cards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Four days?" Sirius questioned before remembering they had an
      appointment. "Jimmy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I met with him," Harry answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "And it went exactly like he said. Dumbledore
      came down, checked him for memory charms, and found nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So did you…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded a little reluctantly. "I obliviated him. There was
      plenty of residue from Dumbledore's scan to mask the charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jimmy's right," Sirius added. "Snivellus would've had no qualms
      about plucking it from his head at any time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know. And with the brotherhood charm, I'll more than likely
      keep Albus from ever realizing why I don't want him discussing
      things with Jimmy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's only a few more months until he graduates anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "But even then, we'll need to decide whether to
      remove the memory charm or leave it there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think you could let it stay?" Sirius asked. "Because you're
      acting like some John stole your whoring money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not," Harry grumbled. "But just for that, I'm going to
      have sex tonight while you can't even move from your hospital
      bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mind doing it in here?" Sirius asked feeling bored with his
      confinement already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those boundaries that we talked about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too far?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled mirthlessly. "Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh that reminds me!" Sirius exclaimed. "I remember what I meant
      to say earlier. I figured out how we're going to break into Malfoy
      Manor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat up, his attention drawn. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My subconscious has had four days to itself. And I'm
      brilliant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry asked again with more than a touch of doubt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's simple," Sirius grinned. "All we have to do is get Lucius
      to key me into the wards. And then I can bring them down enough
      from the inside for you to come play too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's all, huh?" Harry asked. "Just get Lucius to key you into
      the wards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry. "You don't think I could bring them down
      from the inside?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not the part I'm skeptical of," Harry replied. "I'm more
      wondering just how you plan to get Lucius to key you in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm still ironing out some of the details," Sirius admitted.
      "You're going to need to be in top acting form and I need to
      double-check some facts on the history of house elves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry asked unprepared for that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix could help in a small role," Sirius mused to himself
      out loud. "And it'd be nice if Lucius is still clueless of all
      things American."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't keep up with the random hints Sirius was
      dropping. "You're not going to give me any details, are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "Not yet. You need to work on how to get
      into the safe. I'll get us in the door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want me to have the nurse knock you out for a few days? See
      if your subconscious has any more bright ideas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very funny," Sirius retorted. "You're just jealous of my
      brilliant subconscious. Which is understandable considering your
      subconscious is pouting like woman from having to obliviate your
      semi-brother. You know come to think of it, you've been a lot more
      willing to accept Jimmy as a little brother than you have his
      parents as anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No kidding. And just why do you think that is?" Harry retorted
      staring intently at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't kill the messenger," Sirius said holding his hands up in
      supplication. "I'm just making an innocent observation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of killing the messenger," Harry chuckled weakly. "You
      know because of your legs healing, you can't have sex for at least
      three to four weeks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A horrible, gut-wrenching sound echoed throughout the entire
      sixth floor of St. Mungo's.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Remus looked down at his shopping list again wondering if he
      was deciphering the scribbles correctly. "Three tubes of peppermint
      toothpaste? Milk chocolate or semi-sweet, not dark." He considered
      if he should read anything into the three exclamation points after
      'not dark' before finally translating the last item on the list.
      "White bread crusts and wheat bread middles?"</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus turned his cart down the aisle for hair care products and
      almost didn't believe his eyes. "James?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Potter, Assistant Director of the DMLE, had just set a
      bottle of muggle hair conditioner into his handheld shopping basket
      when he looked up. "Remus? What are you doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus sensed his friend's nervousness. "I could ask you the same
      thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I asked first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus held up his two-sided list. "I was doing some
      shopping."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you shopped at the market just a few blocks from your
      place?" James asked curiously while wondering if Remus came
      alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do, but they were shut down tonight to refinish the floor."
      Remus looked into James' basket and saw several fruity smelling
      conditioners, body wash, and bath salts. "I thought Nappy did most
      of your shopping."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She does," James quickly replied. "But obviously she can't go
      to certain types of stores."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus pushed his cart closer to his friend and frowned, jumping
      to the only conclusion he could imagine. "Be honest with me. Are
      you cheating on Lily?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James' eyes nearly bugged out of his head. "Heavens, no! Remus,
      how could you even think such a thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh good," Remus admitted in relief. "I thought it sounded
      crazy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Almost insultingly so," James agreed, standing up a little
      straighter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well what am I supposed to think?" Remus defended. "You're
      nervous, scared, and buying all sorts of woman products."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not woman products," James snapped back. "Men use," he
      pulled out a small pouch and read, "tangerine rain bath crystals,"
      he looked back up at Remus, "just as much as women do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus was fighting a smile. "James?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," James admitted. "That was bad example I grabbed there
      but it's not all girlie."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus reached into James' shopping basket and read the label.
      "Apple blossom with extra volume."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not so loud," James scolded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus smiled as his friend held his shopping basket protectively
      behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" James asked under the uncomfortable stare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you going to explain this to me," Remus asked handing him
      back the apple blossom conditioner. "Or do you just want me to
      guess when I tell it to <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> we've ever met,
      ever?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've changed," James earnestly replied, before recognizing
      the danger of his situation. "And you can't tell anyone about
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't changed that much," Remus argued. "And you know I
      won't say anything if it's that important to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You uncover something I'm obviously trying to hide and
      immediately turn to jokes and blackmail?" James replied. "No,
      you've changed and we both know why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do?" Remus asked uncertainly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James nodded. "Tonks is an adult now, so if you feel the need to
      act like a kid again because of your immature new best friends,"
      James trailed off and shrugged. "I can think of much worse ways to
      have a mid-life crisis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mid-life crisis?" Remus repeated indignantly. "You gotta be…
      Okay, first? Sirius and Harry aren't my new best friends. They're
      not the ones who got me through school and spend every full moon
      with me. I like them and trust them, but they know who my best
      friend is." Remus paused before admitting, "Well okay maybe Sirius
      would pout and try to argue with me, but Harry would understand
      better than anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James made a pained face as if he wanted to frown harshly but
      something was holding him back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen," Remus said, feeling this conversation was long
      overdue. "Forget everything you know about Sirius and Harry and
      think like an auror. Here are two people that Tonks and I know well
      and trust implicitly. Two people your Uncle Peter likes well
      enough, Dumbledore trusts enough to have a brotherhood charm with
      Harry, I know Lily likes them, and your son practically worships
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Believe me, I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll admit they're not exactly the best role models," Remus
      conceded in what James considered the understatement of the year.
      "And while they may go about it in somewhat of an unconventional
      way, they are doing good things. I mean they're not Death Eaters.
      Hell, they've caught a few for you and they kicked the Voldemort's
      arse. They're even pushing muggle-friendly politics from a seat
      that's traditionally been one of the staunchest supporters of
      pureblood supremacy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know all this," James tiredly agreed. "Lily gave me a rather
      similar lecture, though hers featured less profanity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Remus wisely commented. "Well okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It just feels like everyone I know is changing and it's their
      fault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus stayed quiet, recognizing some truth in James' words. "I
      think everyone is changing less than you realize. But I also think
      change can be good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now you sound exactly like my wife," James grumbled. "It's her
      fault I'm here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to try and convince me this stuff is for her? A
      second ago it was manly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James shook his head negatively. He looked both ways down the
      aisle and quietly explained. "It's her fault because she got into
      one of her moods and ordered me to take an hour long bath to
      relieve some of the stress that was 'obviously addling my brain.'
      It's not like I wanted to take a bath but…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relaxing?" Remus asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James carefully muffled a snort. "I'm here in the middle of the
      night buying this junk, aren't I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point," Remus agreed holding up his own list.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James didn't recognize the handwriting on the list and looked
      closer at Remus' cart. "What do you need five jars of pickles and
      six jars of peanut butter for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually five jars of each go together," Remus explained with a
      grimace. "The sixth is because I obviously need my own jar of
      peanut butter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James blinked. "Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus realized this talk was also overdue but he was far more
      hesitant to have it. "You remember how I said I haven't changed
      that much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'm going to be a dad again soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" James gasped. "You're going to be a dad! Remus, I didn't
      even know you were dating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Remus winced. "We've only been on a couple of dates and
      we really can't go anywhere other than the occasional muggle
      place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggle?" James repeated. "Did you knock up a muggle? And wait,
      what about your-?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry," Remus interrupted. "It's going to be a girl. No
      chance of the curse getting passed on. And no, I wouldn't exactly
      call her a muggle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would you call her?" James asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus clenched his eyes shut as he heard a female voice approach
      him from behind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honey?" Bellatrix called out recognizing Remus' back, unable to
      see who he was talking to. "Make sure you get creamy and chunky
      peanut butter. Oh and honey too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus opened his eyes to see the shock on James' face. James
      just tilted to the side and saw Bellatrix Black come to an abrupt
      halt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Death Eater," James muttered right as Remus answered, "Yes
      dear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix heard both of them and gulped audibly. "Protect our
      baby!" she shouted wrapping her arms around her abdomen. She turned
      around and ran full speed the other way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neither James nor Remus made any move as Bellatrix sprinted away
      and around the edge of the aisle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James looked at Remus. "Does she-?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She thinks you're chasing her," Remus said with a nod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James still wasn't sure what to make of this but he remembered
      how Lily acted every time she was pregnant. "Do you need to-?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd rather not right now," Remus admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James couldn't help but to snigger at his best friend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm glad I amuse you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Remus," James apologized. He was still in shock that
      Remus was going to have a baby with Bellatrix Black. "So did you
      just wake up one morning and say, 'Today, I think I want eggs,
      toast, and to have a baby with a Death Eater. Maybe some bacon
      too.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus noticed James had been subtly changing as well. He grinned
      as he realized reverting would be a more accurate description. "I
      kind of got suckered into it," Remus took a moment to ponder his
      accidental double entendre. "And she's not a Death Eater. In fact,
      this is why she left them. She wanted to have a child and be free
      of the Dark Lord's influence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With you?" James added the most surprising part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus shrugged. "She swore loyalty to Harry and Sirius and wants
      them to recognize her child as a Black. They weren't going to knock
      her up so they tricked me into volunteering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James stood up straighter, assuming a firmer stance. "Did they
      force you? Dose you somehow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James," Remus said with a frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Prongs," Remus meaningfully answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James knew Remus never used his old nickname lightly and paused.
      He sighed. "You've been calling me that quite a bit lately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've deserved it quite a bit lately," Remus replied. He saw
      his friend was showing genuine concern. "No, of course they didn't
      dose me or force me. They just… have you <em class="calibre8">seen</em> Bellatrix
      lately?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James whistled softly and nodded. "Understood. Well, not really,
      but if it makes sense to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what I'm doing," Remus admitted with a shrug. "But
      I'm kind of happy doing it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That part I do understand," James said slapping his friend on
      the shoulder. "So she's pregnant? I thought her breasts looked
      fuller than usual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me about it," Remus agreed with an appreciative nod. "The
      wolf in me adores the birthing hips."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," James replied, thinking the conversation just got
      weird.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix tells me I've started purring in my sleep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm officially uncomfortable now," James stated calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Remus grinned weakly and pointed down the aisle. "I
      should be…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," James agreed and pointed the other way. "I need to…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good luck with your…" Remus paused unsure how to finish other
      than with "bath?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James just waved at Remus as he walked away the other
      direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Remus said turning back to his list. "Marshmallows
      and… snausages? God dammit Sirius what have you been doing to that
      poor woman?"</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Well," Ginny drew out the word as she wiggled happily in
      place. "Yes, ghosts can go through the motions of eating, but it
      doesn't taste right."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" Harry asked uncomfortably holding the ghost
      onto his lap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds like another question," Ginny said angling her
      cheek up towards Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry maintained his forced smile and leaned forward to kiss
      Ginny on the cheek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny giggled in happiness at the small smooch. "It tastes bad.
      Just unpleasant. But foods more closely related to death and the
      macabre, like maggots, have a kick. You won't get full or eat for
      nourishment, but the crunching and wiggling can make for a
      pleasurable experience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt ill at the idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Think of it as exercise for your jaw because consumption simply
      isn't a part of ghost life," Ginny continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But how do you even chew up the maggots when you can't
      consciously touch solid objects?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny wiggled her bum on Harry's lap again. "That's a pretty
      complicated question. I figure that one's worth at least a
      shag."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said, reluctantly entering another negotiation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enough over the clothes action to bring me to a-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Ginny harrumphed. "Fine two kisses and a foot rub. Final
      offer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry weighed the offer in his head. "Deal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny closed her eyes, and ever so slightly puckered her lips
      towards Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ducked left and then right placing chaste kisses on each
      cheek. "Two kisses," he happily announced lifting Ginny up and
      depositing her halfway down the couch. Her ghostly feet remained in
      his lap and he pulled her shoes off. "Start talking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She held a frown for a split second before grinning brightly in
      happiness at the thought of her soul mate flirting so playfully.
      "Ooh," she murmured as Harry started to massage her feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned as a lump formed in the back of his throat.
      "Chewing solid objects?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maggots, right," Ginny recalled. "Yeah, the thing about solid
      objects is that most can't touch them, but there are all kinds of
      exceptions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, keeping his head turned so he wouldn't have to
      watch his shameful hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some ghosts' reasons for staying behind can include specific
      items," Ginny explained as her ghostly body hummed in contentment.
      "Probably the most common are young children with a favorite toy or
      opening and closing doors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggleborns who didn't know magic was real and haunt their old
      homes," Harry offered. "And since their muggle families can't see
      ghosts…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly," Ginny agreed. "Other exceptions are occasionally
      acquired with age. Like Myrtle can touch almost anything in her
      bathroom now but I don't think any of the other Hogwarts ghosts
      have strong affinities."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd wondered why she splashed in her toilet but didn't splash
      me in the bath," Harry commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me," Ginny warned dangerously crossing her arms. She was
      allowing Harry some leeway while he was still acclimating to their
      relationship, but she was not going to allow another ghost in her
      territory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a long time ago," Harry assured her tiredly. "You were a
      third year. She helped me with the second task of the
      tournament."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't mean you have to keep talking about it," Ginny
      pouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kiss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said. "I'm still rubbing your feet because there are
      more exceptions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny frowned for a second and burst into another brilliant
      smile. "Right. The other exceptions are dependent on objects more
      than the ghosts. Some times of the year or locations like
      graveyards can factor in. Some artifacts and specific things, like
      the creepy crawlies chex mix, can be touched. Sometimes it takes a
      large gathering of ghosts to push the collective afterlife close
      enough to interact with the living world. And then there are the
      magics that can affect ghosts. Family manors can be protected by
      their own legacy this way, traps that ghosts can trigger, magical
      sealings and defenses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose you know any of those spells?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's another question," Ginny happily answered sticking her
      cheek out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled her towards him and sighed as he kissed her
      quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny giggled and grabbed Harry in a hug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He considered not allowing her to feel his physical form, but
      knew he had to play nice. With an awkward pat, he hugged her
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny squeezed him tighter and replied. "Nope. I don't know any
      of the spells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's spirits deflated and he let Ginny fall through his
      body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sweetie," Ginny begged as her translucent body fell into the
      couch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood to leave the room. "You've used me enough for
      today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny floated up looking hopeful and innocent. "Do you feel
      dirty? Do you, do you need a shower?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grimaced at the average Gryffindor amount of subtlety. He
      looked over at the ghost who was deftly avoiding his eyes. "Yeah,
      okay," Harry conceded without care. "But you're scrubbing my
      back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A ghostly squeal was heard as Ginny did a loop in the air and
      zoomed down the hall towards Harry's bathroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks heard the shower running and snuck into Harry's bathroom.
      She saw Ginny unconsciously rubbing a circle into Harry's back with
      her gaze firmly fixed on his freakishly pale bum. Tonks' entrance
      to the bathroom had gone unnoticed and she was feeling
      mischievous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sound of the sliding glass door opening alerted Harry and
      Ginny to the newcomer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They stared in surprise as a completely nude, shy Ginny Weasley
      clasped her hands together, trying to cover her embarrassment. A
      blush covered her body as she met both the ghost's and young man's
      eyes. A soft, gentle voice dared to ask, "Mind if I join you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't quite sure how to respond but didn't have to as
      Ginny's gasping breaths made him look over his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny stared at the very real and solid human form of her own
      body. Dozens of her dreams and fantasies were within her grasp. She
      was hyperventilating happily, gasping as the smile on her face
      threatened to split her face in half.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks held on tight to her metamorphmagus form but worriedly
      took a step towards the ghost. "Ginny?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny just nodded stupidly, breathing faster, and more
      frantically as her smile started to fade. She couldn't control
      herself as her eyes rolled up into her head, and the ghost
      collapsed in a dead faint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Tonks said looking down at the ghost lying on the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't think I killed her, did I?" Tonks said, shifting
      herself back to a blue-haired version of her base form.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not that lucky," Harry said, rolling the ghost over to the
      back of the large shower.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks let the water cascade down her naked body, running her
      hands through her hair, slicking it back and out of her eyes. She
      flashed a predatory grin at Harry. "Let's see about getting you
      luckier then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Harry helplessly agreed. "But it could take a lot of
      work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Tonks said pulling him closer. "I know you've never had
      a real job-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-but that's really not a lot of work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose not," Harry grumbled to himself. "If your part is to
      lay there like a dead fish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks was about retort when a pair of invisible hands grabbed
      her ankles, flipped her upside-down, and held her in place,
      floating in the gentle shower stream.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spun Tonks slowly in pace, admiring her body and waiting
      for her to proclaim his greatness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blood was rushing to her head, but she still maintained a
      straight face as she licked her lips and asked, "Got any fish
      food?"</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Harry was still toweling his hair dry when he spotted a
      pouting Sirius. Knowing exactly what was bothering his godfather,
      Harry felt he had a duty. "Sex, sex, sex. It's like even when I'm
      not really in the mood, I figure why not? Let's have some more
      sex."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just growled and turned the volume up a notch on the
      telly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh I'm sorry, Sirius," Harry said without a drop of sincerity.
      "How inconsiderate of me. Don't worry about it though. These last
      two weeks have flown by, I'm sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's only been eleven days, you," Sirius resisted the urge to
      use the term wanker. "You orphan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed his glee. "Really? <em class="calibre8">Eleven</em>? So you're
      not even halfway done yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took out his frustration on the remote and pushed really
      hard changing the channel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whenever they remove your ban, if you need someone to catch you
      up on the new rules and the rules that have changed, you just let
      me know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just ignored Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I had sex this morning," Harry began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it," Sirius snapped, digging his hand into his pocket.
      "I told myself I wouldn't do this, but you brought this on
      yourself." Sirius thrust his hand out with a marble held between
      his thumb and forefinger. "Bwah!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't moved but looked at the marble curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bwah!" Sirius tried again wiggling the marble. "Bwah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sounded like a babysitter that just caught her charge with
      his hand in the cookie jar. "What are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing?" Sirius said, looking at his apparently faulty marble.
      "I thought marbles were your greatest fear?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw that boggart nest attack you." Sirius saw the confusion
      on Harry's face. "In the tomb? About three rooms before we got to
      the cup?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled. "Those weren't marbles, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well they weren't dementors either," Sirius retorted. "Which is
      what our old Moony said your boggart turned into."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It used to turn into a dementor," Harry explained. "But that
      was more a fear of fear than a fear of the creatures. After I took
      Voldemort down, I pretty much conquered that one. Now I can't stand
      the idea of not having any control in my own life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius thought back to what he'd mistakenly assumed were
      marbles. "Those were <em class="calibre8">Imperius</em> bubbles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry replied in confusion. "Those were prophecy spheres.
      What the hell is an <em class="calibre8">Imperius</em> bubble? And you really
      thought I was afraid of marbles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "Because prophecy spheres is that much
      better?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew he didn't have any defense for that one. "Hey! You
      were trying to torture me with my worst fear. You're a mean
      bastard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius waved Harry off. "I knew you weren't scared of
      marbles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you didn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Po-tay-toe, po-tah-toe," Sirius said redirecting the
      conversation. "So have you just been stepping up your game to rub
      it in my face?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't been stepping up-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nine different girls in eleven days is a significant increase
      in production for you," Sirius retorted. "Assuming this morning's
      is another new one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks was towel drying her own hair and stuck her head in the
      room. "Am I interrupting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, not a new one," Sirius corrected, addressing Harry.
      "Still, eight's pretty high."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said waving Tonks over. "About that…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius let his remote control arm drop and looked at Harry and
      Tonks curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just show him," Harry urged Tonks. "It'll be easier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks' form shifted into a face and body that Sirius recognized
      from the day before. She morphed her way through a dozen different
      forms, half of which Sirius had seen in just the past eleven
      days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No different girls," Harry told him. "It's always been
      Tonks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned as Tonks pressed up next to Harry. "But why would
      you hide that from… oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're in love," Tonks said with a helpless shrug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup, love," Harry said especially enthusiastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But… I mean…" Sirius was clearly struggling to deal with this
      revelation. His face looked like he was about to burst into unhappy
      tears. "That's great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry visibly relaxed. "I'm so glad you think so. Because I
      asked Tonks to marry me, and she said yes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius whimpered as if he'd been struck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swung an arm over Tonks' shoulder, pulling her closer. "So
      much love."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked away and finally seemed to accept the situation.
      "Harry? You know I only care about your happiness, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks mumbled out the corner of her mouth. "There was a 'hap' in
      there, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ignored Tonks and decided to humor Sirius. "I'll say
      yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you know I'd never," Sirius emphatically repeated,
      "<em class="calibre8">never</em> interfere in your life or tell you how to live,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suspected the truth was not the answer to use here.
      "Right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I forbid this," Sirius said waving his hands wildly at Tonks
      and Harry. "It's not allowed. Meaningless sex is fine. But sex with
      meaning? That's, that's, <em class="calibre8">that's not sex at all</em>. It's just…
      dirty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"God dammit," Tonks swore pushing away from Harry. She turned to
      leave the room, cursing Sirius' existence. "One day? You couldn't
      fake it for one day? This is Harry's happiness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was immensely confused. "Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned victoriously as Tonks stalked away. "She thought
      you'd be able to hold your tongue for at least a day. I bet we
      wouldn't even finish the conversation. You didn't even give me a
      chance to ask you to be my Best Man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Sirius strove for clarification. "So you're not…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In love? Getting married?" Harry repeated with a scoff. "More
      gullible than the first year Gryffindor Seamus convinced was dating
      Hermione and that he'd been obliviated by Snape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So the last few days haven't been just Tonks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eight different, Sirius," Harry assured. "And knowing it would
      annoy you actually made the sex a little bit better. Tonks is just
      a very cool girl with apparently too much faith in you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snickered at how pissed Tonks had been when she left the
      room. "What did you bet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Next three meals at Grimmauld Place, she's eating on the
      floor," Harry explained. "Food in a food bowl, drink in a water
      bowl, and absolutely no hands or magic at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry in disappointment. "You don't bet sexual
      favors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Embarrassment causes more lasting
      damage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True enough," Sirius agreed. "Speaking of lasting damage,
      Bellatrix sent the letter to Narcissa. You think you're going to be
      able to handle this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "No sweat. I've got my eyes on the prize. I can
      hold my tongue and play a role. The only real danger would be an
      accidental magic killing curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius pursed his lips in thought. "Could that happen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I doubt it. But he is <em class="calibre8">really</em>
      annoying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Annoying? He's only annoying if you're lucky," Sirius
      commiserated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. "I've been working on that actually."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"I'm sorry, I don't believe we've met," Lucius said, dripping
      with faux sincerity.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Benjamin Franklin, Lord Malfoy," the severely hunched over
      and heavily disguised Harry said extending his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Salutations, Mr. Franklin," Lucius replied shaking hands with a
      distasteful look on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you familiar with the unfortunate situation that has led me
      to you, Lord Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius shook his head, watching the aged wizard in front of him
      for signs of treachery.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brighton," Harry exclaimed with a rasping cough. "The elf that
      has served my family since before I was born is perilously close to
      earning his permanent retirement, if you will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius looked at the perfectly stoic and proud standing elf
      behind Harry. "It looks healthy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not Brighton," Harry explained. "That's Kreacher. I
      asked Brighton to pick and train his successor. Kreacher here was
      purchased a couple weeks ago from the Lords Black. Are you familiar
      with them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' lips curled in disgust. "A pair of more worthless people
      would be hard to find."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry broke into an exaggerated and guttural laugh. "You won't
      hear any argument from me. They felt it was wrong owning the
      creatures and wanted to get rid of theirs. Even made me swear not
      to beat the little fucker. I should have suspected something with
      the price so low, but as it turns out, Kreacher here is hereditary
      bound to the Black line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I fail to see why you're wasting my time," Lucius said in mild
      irritation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no use for an elf born and bred for another family. His
      spawn will also be inclined to serve the Blacks. The Lords Black
      refused to take him back. Bellatrix Black was difficult to locate,
      but she replied negatively to my letter. She appears to only take
      orders from her Lords, but she did suggest her sister was married
      to you Lord Malfoy, a family name I knew well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're trying to sell me your elf?" Lucius clarified. "I have
      one already and am not inclined to give to charity that dirties my
      front door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand, Lord Malfoy, I really do," Harry said. "And I'm
      not looking to sell you Kreacher. I was hoping to trade Kreacher
      for another able house elf as my family still needs an elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why should I do this favor for you?" Lucius inquired. "My
      current elf is a faithful and able servant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a strong feeling that he doubted that but kept piling
      it on. "Kreacher here is most useful to those of Black descent. If
      you and I cannot reach an accord, then I'm requesting your
      permission to take this offer to your heir, Draco. I always
      approach the Lord first, and given who the elf's previous owners
      were, perhaps this elf is of… <em class="calibre8">special</em> value to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius blinked, only then realizing the elf may very well
      contain the secrets of the Lord Blacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I care not for its past, Lord Malfoy," Harry said with a happy
      snarl. "I just need an elf that can serve my family." He saw he had
      hooked Lucius and needed to reel him in. "I realize trading elves
      would be doing me a favor and can offer Kreacher and five hundred
      galleons for a healthy, unattached elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make it a thousand galleons and we can do business."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at Lucius for a long time, contemplating whether to
      haggle over the price before remembering how much stature mattered
      to Lucius. "A thousand is acceptable, Lord Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby!" Lucius beckoned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sharp crack announced the arrival of the elf. Dobby turned
      towards Harry curiously before looking back at Lucius.
      "Master?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fetch me a piece of clothing," Lucius ordered without even
      looking down at the elf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your elf is uncollared?" Harry questioned as Dobby disappeared
      momentarily. "You allow the creature to think for itself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't need a collar to keep my elf from thinking for itself,"
      Lucius snapped, desperate not to show his ignorance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry conjured a piece of string and tied it like a leash over
      Kreacher. "I assumed we'd simply trade elves without releasing them
      from their collars, but I refuse to include a Kovnott collar with
      Kreacher and receive none in return."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keep your collar then," Lucius instructed as Dobby reappeared
      with a sweaty headband.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby saw the collar around Kreacher's neck and gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius saw the motion and kicked Dobby down the few stairs at
      the door. "That'll be your collar soon enough, elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby pleaded with Lucius. "Dobby is sorry! Dobby promises to
      serve Master well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius held up the headband Dobby had brought him and grinned at
      the creature's fear. "I'm not going to be your Master."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby whimpered as he turned towards Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry unsnapped the collar from Kreacher and held tightly onto
      the string. Kreacher exploded in a flurry of action, trying to run
      away, choking himself against the leash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry yanked on his string and ripped Kreacher through the air
      falling to the ground in front of him. Harry leaned down into the
      elf's face and shouted loud enough to scare all the birds in the
      area away. "Behave!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher was struggling in place and twitchy. A polar opposite
      from the cool, calm, and collected elf he had been with the collar
      on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled out a glove from his pocket and held up the string
      tied around Kreacher's neck. "I am ready. Any last commands you
      wish to give Dobby before the transfer of ownership?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was suddenly having doubts about Kreacher's ability to
      serve. "Your elf is rabid. How do you expect that thing to replace
      my elf?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put a foot on Kreacher pushing him down while he pulled
      the string around his neck taut. "An elf is an elf, Lord Malfoy. I
      do not know how it is done around here, but all
      <em class="calibre8">respectable</em> families in America keep their elves collared.
      Your elf even recognizes the significance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Lucius commented, trying to reaffirm control of this
      deal. "Why is it that he recognizes that collar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could ask him," Harry suggested, resisting the urge to
      really antagonize Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not want a history lesson from an elf," Lucius snapped. "I
      was asking you, <em class="calibre8">Mister</em> Franklin." He added the emphasis to
      remind the other man of his place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Lord Malfoy," Harry agreed. "Kovnott collars were
      how the creatures were first tamed and sold as objects from the
      goblins that created them. The collars made them into completely
      subservient but highly magical beings and protectors. It was only
      after they were sufficiently tamed that the older and less useful
      creatures traded in their collars and received clothes. All of
      today's house elves descend from the unworthy and incapable elves.
      The warrior elves served until they died in battle, while the house
      elves retired to menial labor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius sneered at Dobby, who obediently stood there with his
      head down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued to do what he called 'pulling a Hermione' by
      piling on more information than necessary. "Millennia ago, when
      house elves were all that remained of the goblins' creation,
      Kovnott collars were worth a hundred house elves. But when Hogwarts
      was founded and the concept of a wizard lessened, the creatures
      became a status symbol of history. The value of a single elf
      continued to grow-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I asked for an answer, not a lecture," Lucius interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My apologies, Lord Malfoy," Harry said with a bowed head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why is the collar so important to you then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fought the urge to smile and explained, "Because, Lord
      Malfoy, a collared elf can be spelled into the family manor's
      magics. Within the home, the Master of the manor has full control
      over the elf though usually the manor keeps the elf aware of all
      the manor's needs. Disobedience is handled by the collar, and in
      the event of a betrayal or the Master's wish, the collar will
      cleanly behead the elf instantaneously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby whimpered at the explanation and Harry felt like hugging
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the case of hereditary bound elves," Harry said with a nod
      towards Kreacher, "The collar will immediately enslave and bring
      the next elf in line into service. For that reason alone, I would
      advise you to locate a Kovnott collar for Kreacher."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius had reached a decision. "No. The deal is off unless you
      include the collar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Malfoy," Harry snapped. "This collar is worth as much as
      the elf and I will not trade a collared elf for an uncollared one.
      Let alone give you an additional thousand galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Another negotiation, then?" Lucius smirked. "How much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The collar on its own is worth almost seven thousand galleons,"
      Harry stated as he snapped it back around Kreacher's neck. The elf
      stood up obediently and calmly waited by Harry's side. "By the
      terms of our previous agreement, I'm willing to take your elf and
      six thousand galleons for Kreacher and the collar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll give you one thousand," Lucius countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One thousand?" Harry said shaking his head. "Five thousand is
      more than generous, even for a Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In that case my answer is no," Lucius added. "You may not
      approach my heir with your offer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "I'm sorry, Lord Malfoy, but I'm better off
      selling Kreacher to someone else interested in the Lord Blacks'
      secrets and just purchasing a new elf. My apologies for wasting
      your time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to walk away and feared he might have made a
      colossal mistake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three thousand galleons and that's my final offer," Lucius
      called out as the man began to lead his elf away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three thousand?" Harry repeated, turning around. "I could still
      probably make more, but you would spare me the effort of finding an
      elf for sale."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a knut over three thousand," Lucius insisted. "And the
      offer only stands for another minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wobbled his hunched form over and looked right into
      Dobby's eyes. "This elf will behave properly until I can purchase
      another collar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius kicked Dobby in the back and assured. "He's behaved this
      long without one but if you are unable to handle a house elf…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby got back up to his feet and stared at Harry. "Dobby needs
      no collar to know how to be a good elf. Dobby is a good elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned at Dobby before looking up at Lucius. "We have an
      accord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius held out the headband signifying ownership of Dobby.
      "Let's finish this. We have wasted enough of my time as it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry accepted the headband and handed the glove symbolizing
      Kreacher to Lucius. "Agreed." A flash of magic permeated through
      the air and Kreacher and Dobby both felt the pull of new Masters.
      "Now there's only the matter of the money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius reached inside his robe and withdrew a leather
      pocketbook. He proceeded to scribble out a bank draft for three
      thousand galleons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry bound Dobby to him, as the elf accepted the magic from his
      new Master. "Thank you, Lord Malfoy," Harry said accepting the slip
      of paper stamped with the Malfoy seal. "Do you need any help
      binding Kreacher to your manor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Mr. Franklin," Lucius snidely remarked. "If I need any
      help, I'll look it up. But if I need a lecture… well, I'd probably
      find someone more attractive than you to give it. Good day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched Lucius order Kreacher inside and followed after
      the elf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What a dick," Harry grumbled. "Follow me, Dobby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked outside the manor grounds, and once they were far
      enough they apparated away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby appeared in the middle of Grimmauld Place next to Harry
      and looked around curiously. "This is the Noble and Most Ancient
      House of Black," Dobby commented looking up at Harry curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is," Harry agreed. "And I've got an offer for you." Harry
      held up the headband. "If you want this, it's yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master just got Dobby," Dobby noted. "Master wishes to free
      Dobby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not particularly," Harry said. "But I'm giving you the option
      for freedom. It'll come with a small memory charm, but if you
      wanted you could go to Hogwarts and work there. I bet you could
      even talk the Headmaster into paying you to work for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master knows how to memory charm house elves?" Dobby asked
      doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby frowned and then smiled. "Master must be a very good
      Master for a house elf to have taught Master that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned knowing that the knowledge couldn't be passed on
      to others. It was something only a house elf could give a person.
      "He was a very remarkable house elf and I'd love to tell you about
      him, but not if you'd rather freedom. My secrets are too important
      to risk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master memory charmed Kreacher!" Dobby exclaimed in
      surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "He still remembers his name and being
      born."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby frowned warily. "But why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry. I can't answer that and then later give you this," Harry
      said shaking the headband.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby knows," Dobby said. "Dobby is a good house elf and will
      serve good Master. But Dobby is wondering who taught Master to
      memory charm house elves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled off the medallion Sirius had given him and his
      proper appearance returned. "Feel free to call me Harry or Master
      or whatever the hell you want. I really don't care. And since you
      asked, I'll tell you that it was an extremely brave elf named Dobby
      that taught me how to memory charm house elves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby did?" Dobby asked in awe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not you, not exactly," Harry added. "A different elf named
      Dobby though it was kind of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what Dobby said," Dobby clarified. "Dobby said Dobby
      did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, I just… I mean…" Harry sighed. "This could get confusing
      real quick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby doesn't mind if Master pretends Dobby is Dobby. Dobby
      doubts Dobby minds either if Dobby is a good elf. Dobby is a good
      elf," Dobby rattled off with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry uncertainly agreed. "Maybe I should explain this
      and Dobby should stay quiet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby is here?" Dobby asked looking around. "Dobby is
      confused."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was starting to remember why he offered Dobby freedom in
      the first place.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Harry still wasn't sure if Dobby understood it, but the elf
      was eager to help him gather his gear. Sirius and Harry had already
      spent 68 hundred galleons on the Kovnott collar they jinxed and
      another 15 thousand galleons to buy a special acid.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">To utilize the full power of the collar, Lucius needed to key
      the collar into the wards as opposed to the keying in the elf. The
      stronger the manor wards, the stronger the connection. The success
      of the evening's work hinged on whether Lucius had located accurate
      instructions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had been put into an enchanted sleep, set to wear off
      after eighteen hours. He was then transfigured into one of the
      jewels encrusted on the collar. When the sleep enchantment wore off
      around three in the morning, Sirius would transform into his dog
      form, reversing the transfiguration on him. Then he had to prepare
      for Harry's arrival, knowing he'd be apparating to him at the
      proper time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded at Dobby and covered himself in an invisibility
      cloak. His watch beeped once, indicating 3:30 A.M. and with a soft
      pop he apparated straight to Sirius' side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Sirius pouring magic into a keystone and whipped his
      cloak off. "I'm here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh thank Merlin," Sirius said letting his magic relax. "I
      couldn't actively change the wards without drawing attention, but I
      figured if I just held them open without changing anything you
      could power through."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the stunned and unmoving Kreacher on the floor.
      "You realize the sort of life we're condemning Kreacher…" Harry
      trailed off at the look Sirius was giving him and proceeded to
      obliviate the last half hour from the elf. "Right. Never mind. So
      what's the status on Malfoy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We gotta stay quiet," Sirius said accepting his backpack from
      Harry. "Lucius and Narcissa are asleep and both wearing Malfoy
      rings, so no direct magic on them. I thought about silencing their
      bedroom door, but figured it might be a risk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit," Harry swore. "As much as I'd like to ransack the place,
      let's just hit drawing room floor and blood-warded safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Sirius agreed. "But I'm still going to crap on their
      carpet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and the pair stealthily made their way through
      Malfoy manor and towards the drawing room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you bring the stuff for a Fidelius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've always got stuff for one," Harry said. "But I'm not keyed
      into the wards. So the best I can do is just a chunk in the middle
      of the room. And more than likely he will feel that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think we can do this quiet enough for three hours or
      however long the acid takes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw how energized Sirius was and how vulnerable they'd be
      for a long time. "Good point. Go take your crap real quick, because
      once the Fidelius is up, we're not crossing it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded and walked down to the middle of the hall and
      squatted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put the finishing touches on the anchor stone placement.
      "I thought you were going to transform?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't want dog shit on his floor," Sirius explained. "I
      wanted people shit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well are you done?" Harry asked. "Because you know he's
      probably going to wake up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's do it," Sirius said hopping inside the small warded
      square.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly flooded the stones with magic and sealed the
      charm, locking them in. "That'll hold," he said in exhaustion
      before noticing Sirius had already pulled out the first bottle of
      acid. "Be careful with that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Sirius said. He'd rolled the carpet over and revealed
      the large floor safe and door on top. "This stupid thing better be
      in here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever's in here is ours," Harry assured him. "And is
      important enough to the Malfoys to keep in a safe. But it'll be
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took out one of the glimmering mesh balls and handed the
      other to Harry. "Start your scrubbing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry dropped to his knees next to Sirius. Together the pair of
      them rubbed the shine off the large empty front of the door, below
      the Malfoy crest. They couldn't use magic, and had enlisted the
      help of the Weasley twins in creating what they called diamond
      wool. It was similar to steel wool but with a little more kick.
      Fred and George only knew it had to be completely non-magical, even
      if manipulating the materials to make it was a magical process. Any
      magic on the safe and they wouldn't be able to get in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd only been scrubbing for a couple of minutes before they
      saw Lucius Malfoy running down the hall with his wand up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They glanced at each other and went back to their scrubbing,
      this time a little quieter than before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?" Narcissa called out as she pulled her night robe
      tighter. She saw her husband crouched down to something. "Did
      someone… defecate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius looked up and around, his eyes passing right over the
      Fidelius protected square without pause. "Something's going
      on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has someone broken in?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Lucius replied. "No intruders at least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you don't know what, then it was probably an ally passing
      the Dark Lord's wards to the public areas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those triggering don't even wake me," Lucius retorted. "This
      was something different." Lucius sniffed the air as he got a nose
      full of the present left in the hallway. "Something personal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Narcissa rolled her eyes and turned away from her husband. "You
      probably just upset Draco again. I'm going back to bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was still sitting there musing over what had happened.
      "Kreacher!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The elf appeared with a pop. "Master?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clean this up," Lucius ordered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius stalked by the entrance to the drawing room and continued
      right on past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher could be heard mumbling in the distance. "Bad Master,
      bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry's arms were burning and Harry let up his
      furious scrubbing. "That might be enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius carefully pulled his hand back, and looked at all the
      small cuts from the diamond wool. "It better be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned down and blew the stone dust and shavings away from
      a central circle, about a half meter in diameter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Together the pair of Lord Blacks, each took a bottle of the acid
      and began to trace the edge of the hole they were making. It
      sizzled and steamed on contact but was clearly eating away at the
      obsidian.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're sure this is going to work?" Sirius asked vanishing the
      steam collecting inside the Fidelius charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It should," Harry explained. "The magic of the safe is never
      tampered with. We just destroy the physical aspects of it, leaving
      the magic intact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the gloves and sheets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The magic muting gloves allow us to reach in, wrap the items in
      the sheets, and lift the wrapped items through the physical
      hole."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It sounds like it will work," Sirius said drizzling more acid
      along his lines. "I just find it hard to believe you managed to
      crack a safe that's been considered uncrackable for centuries."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was layering in the acid and vanishing steam periodically.
      "Says the man whose subconscious came up with a plan where he was
      the stud on a house elf's collar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius agreed. "But I'm a genius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry retorted knowing they were going to be applying acid
      for a couple of hours. "I'm a genius." And just like that the game
      was afoot to see who had the stamina to out-annoy the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somehow in the midst of their marathon game, they managed to
      discuss Dobby and Kreacher, Quidditch, Remus and Bellatrix, Tonks,
      the Potters, life, love and happiness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My genius is so thick and meaty," Sirius argued. "Female
      kelpies-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop!" Harry cried out. He remembered he was supposed to be
      quiet and whispered harshly. "Stop!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You recognize my genius?" Sirius clarified, lifting his nearly
      empty acid bottle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry explained and pointed down. "We're through. You're
      dripping acid on our goodies now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit," Sirius said placing the acid to the side. He slipped on
      one of the extra long special gloves. Just in time to see Harry
      punch hard on the remaining chunk of wall that hadn't been eaten
      through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oww," Harry yelped pulling his hand back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius moved into place and using his gloved arm punched in the
      same place Harry did. "Oww."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The remaining pieces of obsidian bent inwards in a way that
      normal stone could never bend.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grabbed a large cloth of magic muting material and stuck
      his arm as far in as he safely could. He grabbed onto a stack of
      ledgers and wrapped them up in the cloth. He slowly extracted the
      tightly wound objects pulled them through the active magical
      protections of the safe. "See? I'm a genius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius accepted the bundle and unwrapped the magic muting cloth.
      He quickly flipped through the stack of documents and personal
      books. "There's no diary here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stuff that in your bag. We're taking everything from this
      safe," Harry said, having spotted the diary and reaching for it. He
      grabbed an extra magic muting cloth and wrapped it around his upper
      arm, so he could reach deeper into the safe. "Got it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly withdrew diary, wrapped in another magic muting
      cloth. He handed the diary to Sirius and grabbed all the rest of
      the cloths. "Let me clear the rest of this out. You bag it up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded, carefully revealing the book, doing his best to
      not physically touch the horcrux.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a system going of just loosely wrapping, extracting,
      and dumping items on the floor. Harry saw Sirius staring at the
      open diary. "Don't start writing in that thing. We can play with it
      later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius weakly said interrupting Harry's pattern.
      "Harry, I think you better take a look at this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reassessed their surroundings knowing they hadn't seen
      Lucius in a while. He took the diary from Sirius and realized he
      felt not a drop of magic from the thing. The pages were yellowed
      indicating its age, but a clearly newer fresh piece of parchment
      was stuck on top. It had been spelled so that only certain people
      could read it. The most damning part was that the letter had been
      spelled specifically for Harry and Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dear Sirs,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Do you prefer Death Eater Bandits or the Lords
      Black?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I suspect I've caught your attention enough that you don't
      care how I refer to you but I do hope we can become allies. Or at
      the least avoid becoming enemies.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I know what you were expecting this to be, just like I know
      why you broke into Alan Weston's home. I've been wondering just
      what other places and treasures you have uncovered.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We need to discuss this in person. There is a hidden cellar
      underneath the Shrieking Shack between Hogwarts and Hogsmeade. Men
      of your talents should have no problem getting in there. I'll know
      when you arrive and will meet you there within an hour.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced up at Sirius who was looking very pale.
      "Fuck."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
