<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s26" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 25</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shouldn't we be hightailing it the fuck out of here, right
      about now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Harry said reading through the note again. "Let's
      think this through."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius didn't have Harry's patience. "How about this? Someone
      knows way too much and we're sitting in the middle of the Malfoy
      fucking Manor. Let's think this through at home instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keep your panties on, Padfoot," Harry chided. "We're under a
      Fidelius. We're safe for the moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've got an hour to walk into what we both know is a trap,"
      Sirius argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we don't," Harry replied with certainty. "The hour referred
      to an hour after reaching the Shrieking Shack. No, the person who
      left this note didn't know when we'd be here." Harry was still
      thinking through the situation. He looked closer at massive ruby
      brooch in the pile of plunder. "And they seem to not care that
      we're robbing Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy thinks this is the real diary," Sirius added before
      settling in quiet contemplation as well. "You think this is That
      Fucker?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry intermittently winced and frowned. "It doesn't matter if
      this mystery fucker is that particular fucker or just some other
      fucker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fuck," Sirius added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's… curious," Harry mused. "This note feels more like a
      courtesy than a threat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think maybe it's another thief?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head in consternation. "I don't know. He calls
      us the Lords Black, so if he wanted to blackmail us, he could've
      gotten a hold of us in many much easier ways. And how the hell does
      he know about the horcruxes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could he have wanted us here? Needed to confirm something?
      Maybe trap us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think so," Harry uncertainly responded. "But let's load
      up the rest of this stuff and get out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "I know we usually aim for quiet unobtrusive
      exits, but can we please cause just a little wanton destruction
      this time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They'll know right away if we do that," Harry argued. "Lucius
      barely thinks about creatures he considers below him, but even he
      might connect the whole new house elf and getting robbed at the
      same time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we're in Malfoy Manor!" Sirius whined. "If someone's
      fucking with us, we may not have another chance like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned hating the situation as much as Sirius. Harry's
      eyes trailed over the pile of things they'd not bagged yet when
      something caught his attention. A plan began to formulate in his
      mind. "What if we don't take credit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pointed towards an old case with several dials on it. "Do
      you know what that is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Sirius said picking it up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You ever hear of a Gubraithian funeral?" Harry asked with a
      grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at the case in glee. "No way!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm thinking let's tone it down from burning too long," Harry
      said accepting the case, while inspecting the contents. "And
      instead we just let it go real big and burn fast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not forever?" Sirius pouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "We do this big enough and they'll think
      everything got toasted. We'll make it look like an accident that
      started inside the safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We take no credit because there was no robbery," Sirius
      realized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No robbery," Harry said. "And this mystery fucker doesn't know
      we're on to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius understood how advantageous this exit would be. He was
      slowly nodding. "I suppose it'll have to do. It's going to blow
      big?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Real big," Harry said while readjusting the settings of the
      explosive magical device. He looked up at Sirius who was bagging up
      the rest of the contents. "And don't forget, Sirius, you're still
      keyed in to the wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smiled even brighter, getting on board with the 'no
      apparent robbery' plan. He finished storing away everything and
      pulled his backpack over his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Harry said, pleased he'd set it right. "Here's what's
      gonna happen. I'm going to pull the Fidelius down, at the same time
      as I trigger the funeral. I set the delay for three seconds. Lucius
      will feel the Fidelius come down, but hopefully he'll attribute it
      to the massive fiery explosion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Three seconds?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're keyed in to the wards so you're going to be apparating
      us both out," Harry nodded. "Questions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw Harry drape a magic muting cloth over the physical
      hole in the blood-warded safe. He walked over and put his hand on
      Harry's shoulder. "Nope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ready?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded back and touched his wand to the front dial on the
      case. Four invisible magical arms reached out and grabbed the
      anchor stones right as the tip of Harry's wand began to glow,
      igniting the Gubraithian funeral. He dropped it over the hole as
      the anchor stones flew towards him and the room flickered in and
      out of view. "Go! Go! Go!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius drew on Harry's strength and apparated them out of Malfoy
      Manor. The last thing Harry saw was the cloth wrapping around the
      case as it fell into the safe, without triggering any of the safe's
      protections.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A couple of apparition hops were added for safety's sake before
      the pair of thieves dropped off their score at secure location.
      Rather than sorting through it now, they agreed to just head back
      at Grimmauld Place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry stood there silently, coming down from the
      adrenaline-filled night of failure and success.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone knows way too much," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded pensively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius realized he felt a lot less safe than he had a day ago.
      "What are we going to do about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "I don't know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got the diary and note?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled them from inside his robe and handed them over.
      "Not a drop of magic on either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius read through the note again. "It's not Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it's not Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly shook his head. "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's That Fucker," Sirius concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed and turned to walk up the stairs. "I hope it
      is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do?" Sirius wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped on the first step, with his hand on the banister.
      "There are enough dangerous fuckers in this world as it is. We
      don't need more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "You're not thinking about leaving, are
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry assured him. "But I am starting to miss not having
      to worry about wizards smarter and more powerful than me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well what did you search me out for then?" Sirius said with a
      grin. His grin faltered when he saw Harry still looked tired.
      "Didn't you have politicians and Death Eaters after you in the old
      world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Not as much as you might think. The remaining
      Death Eaters remembered my escape. Couple that with the fact that I
      took down Voldemort and I earned a healthy amount of fear in those
      trying to oppose or use me for their own gain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could always take out Voldemort here," Sirius
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "I can't, Sirius. And if you knew what I
      haven't told you, you wouldn't want me to either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Sirius said, making it clear he wasn't pushing
      the issue. "I'm just brainstorming." Sirius paused, noticing Harry
      was standing on the first step, still lost in thought. "What are
      you thinking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to his godfather and looked at him
      incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius exasperatedly explained, "I haven't forgotten tonight.
      I'm just wondering specifically what's got you making that
      face."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm thinking about the person who left the note," Harry added
      as he began to walk up the stairs. "They were either good enough or
      close enough to Malfoy to get into the vault. That points towards
      Death Eater if they were trusted or Death Eater thuggery if they
      weren't. And it's only been in the last few weeks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We hit Weston's almost three months ago," Sirius inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry said from the top of the stairs. "But this was
      the fucker watching us at the Gaunt House. I'm almost certain of
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He knows that we knew exactly where to look for the ring,"
      Harry clarified. "That's why he thought we might know exactly where
      to look for the diary. I need to think on this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius turned towards the kitchen. "And I need to drink on
      this."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Harry woke up around one in the afternoon and headed for the
      kitchen for some late breakfast.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked in and saw Dobby sitting cross-legged on the kitchen
      table, looking worriedly at a drunk Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great news!" Sirius cheered loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Sirius doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Malfoy Manor is still burning," Sirius happily added, showing
      off the Daily Prophet's front page photo. A column of flame could
      be seen escaping a good sized hole in the roof. "Lucius is being
      cited for not registering a class one restricted item as a family
      heirloom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't certain but he thought he saw Dobby smile. "I set
      it for fifteen minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You set it for fifteen days," Sirius happily corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oops," Harry said thinking that as mistakes go, this one was
      pretty fucking awesome. "Do you think it still…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "The DMLE investigators early determination was
      that if the unregistered Gubraithian device burned hot enough to
      destroy a blood-warded safe, then it definitely burned hot enough
      to completely incinerate the contents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fuck me," Harry grinned. "Karma's making a quick comeback."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll say," Sirius agreed. "You got a letter from Albus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aww bugger," Harry swore. "You want to get me a bowl of cereal,
      Dobby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Master," Dobby said, eagerly hopping off the table
      and over towards the cabinets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Did you order him to stay there with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius drank the last of his bottle. "I didn't want to drink
      alone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You made him <em class="calibre8">drink</em>?" Harry asked in surprise. He
      noticed Dobby was pouring cereal and missing the bowl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby, stop!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby was still pouring cereal onto the counter as he turned to
      Harry and said, "Yes, Master."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here," Harry said, grabbing the box of cereal from Dobby. "Do
      you need any potions? Or a hangover cure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby shook his head but leaned over and hugged Harry. "Dobby
      loves Master."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry patted the slightly inebriated elf on the back. "Just take
      it easy, Dobby. Relax, sleep it off, whatever you need to do. And
      check with me the next time that idiot gives you a stupid order,
      okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Master," Dobby said snapping his fingers. He turned
      to look at his tiny elf hand in surprise. "Dobby thought-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The little elf with low tolerance disappeared in mid-sentence
      from the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snickered. "New toys are fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dobby's not a toy," Harry scolded as he added milk to his
      cereal. He sat down at the table across from Sirius and looked at
      the letter. "What do you think the odds are that it's good
      news?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a howler," Sirius said. "And Fawkes delivered it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fawkes?" Harry asked looking up. "Didn't stick around?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius exaggeratedly shook his head. "Stupid bird ran away after
      I ordered Dobby to tackle him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You need to get laid," Harry chided with a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius growled, knowing he still had two more days before his
      next appointment with Healer Armstrong. "I will hurt you. I'm an
      angry drunk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just smiled quietly knowing it would infuriate Sirius. He
      opened up the letter from Albus and read it quickly. "Lovely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd ask what," Sirius began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was already answering. "He knows what a horcrux is and he
      knows we did something to Jimmy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'm too drunk to remember anything," Sirius finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry figured that was just as well. He looked over at Sirius
      and recalled an especially unpleasant memory. "You know those
      charmed mirrors we used to use?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not wearing the homo-erotic arranged marriage necklaces
      except we're both doing recon at the same time. That was the
      agreement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry narrowed his eyes. "You know why we have to use the
      necklaces."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah because you broke your mirror," Sirius pouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "If you were capable of using them like an
      adult…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think the purpose for which I <em class="calibre8">accidentally</em> used the
      wrong mirror <em class="calibre8">proves</em> I'm an adult," Sirius argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were shaving your balls!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are places you need a mirror to see," Sirius
      defended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You called me on it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius waved Harry off. "I wasn't calling you. I was making an
      observation after getting the mirror angled right so I had a clear
      look at my-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought my mirror was cursed and showing me the face of true
      evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even if it was, you didn't have to break it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I most certainly did," Harry forcefully snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius tipped back an empty bottle and was trying to suck a few
      more drops out. "You're the one who brought it up." Sirius dropped
      his arm and empty bottle down in disgust. "What were we talking
      about again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Charm-linked mirrors," Harry repeated in irritation. "Were they
      like a family heirloom? Or did you make them yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Family heirloom? Are you kidding?" Sirius asked skeptically. "A
      pair of Lookie Talkies is about two galleons at any Wiz-mart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lookie Talkies?" Harry repeated thinking that sounded smarter
      than most magical names but still dumb as hell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. They're children's toys," Sirius explained. "We used to
      use them all the time when we'd play blood traitors and muggle…"
      Sirius trailed off. "You probably wouldn't have played the same
      games I did growing up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably not," Harry confidently agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well except for <em class="calibre8">Tie-Harry-to-the-back-of-the-bus</em>,"
      Sirius grinned. "Everybody played that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How the hell do you remember that when you don't even remember
      what we were talking about three minutes ago?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook another empty bottle and frowned. "What were we
      talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "Take a hangover potion and go to sleep,
      Padfoot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It showed how out of it Sirius was that he obeyed without
      protest.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Harry tucked a brand new pair of Lookie-Talkies into his
      cloak pocket and walked up the long path towards Hogwarts. He
      briefly wondered the odds that Jimmy would just happen to activate
      the Marauder's Map and notice an extra Potter on it. Harry wasn't
      worried this time though, because he knew how the young man would
      react.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, not looking forward to the conversation with Albus, was
      slightly tempted to try and locate Jimmy first. It was late
      afternoon, and Harry had no clue what Jimmy's schedule was like.
      Albus, Harry expected to be in his office. But if Harry were to go
      hunting for Jimmy, he would be risking getting cornered by
      Lily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt he had enough things rolling around in his head that
      he could safely put 'constant deception and lies of omission
      towards the elder Potters' onto the back burner where it'd set up
      camp and been living ever since Harry arrived in this world. It
      certainly didn't help matters that so far Lily Potter could detect
      bullshit from Harry better than a Master Legilimens.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry estimated that sacrificing his mother's soul probably
      meant that karmically, every other Lily Potter in existence had him
      by the balls until the end of time. Of course when Harry had made
      that deal, he wasn't planning on actually meeting any of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that's what bottles and back burners were made for, Harry
      told himself, putting things like emotions and uncomfortable
      confrontations safely away and out of sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was so pleased with his plan of inaction that he wasn't
      even watching where he was going and managed to walk right into the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fell back on his ass tumbling down the front steps. "Fuck
      me! What the hell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you alright?" a gentle voice inquired as the front door
      creaked open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on, mum," another voice interrupted. A second redheaded
      woman emerged and looked down towards Harry with a grin. "Was that
      an offer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sarah!" Lily scolded her daughter. "That's no way to talk to…
      oh. Harry. Excuse me, Lord Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure people talk to him that way quite often," Sarah
      commented, "if Witches Weekly is to be believed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah and Lily Potter had both walked down the steps to help
      Harry and were looking at him oddly. Sarah saw Harry wincing and
      asked, "Did you hit your head?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My nose mainly," Harry grumbled, testing the sensitivity of his
      schnozz. "What happened? I thought the doors opened
      automatically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily looked at Harry curiously, wondering if he'd somehow
      attended Hogwarts. She was doing her best to ignore the monster in
      her chest sensation. "They open automatically for students and
      invited guests. I take it no one is expecting you today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I…" Harry stumbled over the words. "Uh… Albus wrote me this
      morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh good," Lily said as she and Sarah helped Harry to his feet.
      "I was hoping that was why you were here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced over at Sarah and then Lily, thinking he'd never
      feel normal around either of these two people. "Err… why is
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something's been bothering him," Lily replied thinking Albus
      rarely showed it, but she knew him better than most. "And a magical
      brother might bring him out of his funk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew she was speaking of the brotherhood charm but
      couldn't stop himself from glancing at Sarah again. "I'll see what
      I can do about that. You know if he's in his office?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should be," Lily replied. She looked towards her daughter. "Did
      you need to check Harry out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah smirked at her mother. "Need's kind of a strong word but I
      like what I-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His head, his nose," Lily snapped. "The fall, you know what I
      meant. And don't think I won't start carrying around baby
      pictures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Baby pictures are cute," Sarah countered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily tilted her head down at the unexpected challenge. "And do
      we remember when we kept trying to wear our little brother's
      diapers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah stared at her mother aghast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hurriedly interjected, "I'm fine. It was nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Lily said, thinking she may have gone too far based
      on the looks her daughter was giving her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I wouldn't mind seeing those pictures sometime," Harry
      mischievously added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily smothered a grin as her daughter glared at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah dangerously warned, "The things I could show Dad in a
      pensieve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily decided at that point she had definitely gone too far. She
      smiled pleasantly at Harry, "Would you like us to walk you to the
      Headmaster's office?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, please," Harry said as he made a fist and knocked himself
      in the head. "I'm fine." Harry winced, "Okay, that kind of hurt,
      but seriously. I'm fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah looked at Harry in slight surprise. "You know how to find
      the Headmaster's office?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded with certainty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't worry," Lily assured her daughter while giving a knowing
      look to Harry. "Lord Black knows his way around Hogwarts better
      than you think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched the first two female Potters he'd ever remembered
      meeting walk down the rest of the steps and along the path towards
      Hogsmeade. He idly realized he could try and track down Jimmy
      without worry when he felt a tug on a different piece of active
      magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" the wizened old voice greeted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus," Harry replied turning towards the Headmaster with a
      look of innocence on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned. "Why don't we talk in my office where I can yell
      and you can lie with impunity?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds like fun," Harry agreed and led the way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus immediately went for the seat behind his desk,
      establishing himself into a position of power. "What did you do to
      my Head Boy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced around the office, noting Fawkes perch was
      unoccupied. "What makes you think I did anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you think I did?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not kidding," Harry argued. "For all I know, you think I
      cursed him, so I need to hear an accusation to respond to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was unruffled. "You memory charmed him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did, did I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry James Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry playfully winced. "Ouch. Breaking out the full name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If treating you like a child is the only way to get answers,"
      Albus said defending his actions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged and helped himself to the candy dish. "It sounds
      like you have the answers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not the why," Albus retorted, "nor the how."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked inwardly, deducing that Albus hadn't been able to
      find the block. "Did you check him for memory charms?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded. "Twice. And I must concede your skill at
      obliviating is superior to my own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "There are four charms I'm real good at. Memory
      charming is my fourth best."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was rubbing his chin in thought, "I assume summoning and
      banishing are the top two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what is the third?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't want to try and guess?" Harry said popping a lemon
      drop in his mouth. "The third one has more than a little personal
      significance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus thought about what he knew of the young man relaxing
      across from him. "Snake charming?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Is there a field of magic for that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are a few ancient spells involving serpents, but I
      believe snakes typically obey a parselmouth, making many of them
      unnecessary. Nevertheless, I can see that was an inaccurate guess."
      Albus shook his head. "I'm not sure I know you well enough to think
      of any others with personal significance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tsk, tsk," Harry shook his head. "After all, the other you
      talked my parents into using the charm that inadvertently led to my
      orphanhood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Fidelius," Albus said in realization. "The reason for your
      interest in warding?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Part of it," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you're better at casting the Fidelius than memory
      charming?" Albus asked more than a little impressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know if I'd say better, but there's definitely less
      competition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus inclined his head in understanding. "Does this mean you're
      not going to be telling me the how or why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The how is easy," Harry answered. "I knew you'd search him for
      a memory charm when he got back. And unless you're very careful
      doing that, you tend to kick up a lot of dust."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Being careful takes time and attentive observation of the
      memories," Albus reasoned aloud. "Something a cursory examination
      never is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Then I come back a couple days later and make use
      of all that dust you kicked up. That's why even if you located it…
      It'll appear as though you cast it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It sounds like a form of layering," Albus commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly," Harry grinned. "Layering is where memory charms
      really get fun. You should've seen the job I did on these
      Unspeakables."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me," Albus said after Harry suddenly went quiet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing bad," Harry said waving away Albus' worries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mmm-hmm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tiredly explained. "It was my arrival in this world. New
      person comes shooting out the Exit, and they'd probably grill me
      for days. I wanted to locate my godfather, so I had to send them in
      a different direction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus snapped his fingers. "You're Miss Lupin's assignment! That
      explains a lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what about when she had to go away for days at a time,
      undercover?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "We rented a lot of movies and laid on the
      couch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned in disappointment. "I shouldn't have to remind
      myself you're not a bad person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can be a good person and a bad influence," Harry
      offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus murmured in resignation. "You've given me the how but
      still no why. Should I stop asking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to tell you the why," Harry assured him. "In case he
      comes in again and we have to obliviate him again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We?" Albus doubtfully questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The why," Harry continued, "is because Jimmy convinced me to.
      It was his idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was?" Albus repeated, ensuring the brotherhood charm was
      still working.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Frankly, we don't trust Snape not to rip the
      knowledge from Jimmy's head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned. "Professor Snape has my full-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blah, blah," Harry interrupted. "You're as blind to that man as
      Cornelius Fudge is to fashion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned harsher.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trust me," Harry argued. "Until you've been a Potter in his
      classroom for a few years, you won't get it. I mean it. The sheer
      volume of hate and petty in that man is limitless where I'm
      concerned and it doesn't sound like Jimmy's much better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded slowly. "I'll consider it a personal issue and the
      matter closed. But do not underestimate what I will do when it
      comes to protecting the wellbeing of students entrusted to my
      care."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew many people doubted Albus' judgment, and a few
      doubted his sanity, but no one doubted his dedication to Hogwarts.
      "Your intentions are not the same as your actions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus tilted his head to watch Harry impassively. "Do tell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've no doubt you act in what you believe to be the best
      interests of students," Harry explained when he saw Albus
      scrutinizing him. "But sometimes I think your attempts to redeem
      men like Snape do more harm to innocents than you realize."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned at the words. "Severus Snape needs no redemption.
      Please," Albus said stopping Harry from interrupting. "He never
      became a Death Eater and you've only met him briefly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reluctantly had to admit this world's Snape could be a bit
      different. But he doubted it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My counterpart may have had a blind spot for Severus, and I may
      as well, but you must admit that you cannot view him objectively
      either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grumbled but didn't disagree. "He's a poohead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moving on," Albus said steepling his hands together as he
      leaned forward. "Tell me everything you can about the Dark Lord's
      horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced at unexpected lack of subtlety from the Headmaster.
      "Looked that one up, eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus' look was grave. "You were not particularly discreet in
      your allusions towards its importance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The horcrux," Albus replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry grimaced. "<em class="calibre8">It</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned as he felt the brotherhood charm buzzing. "What
      aren't you telling me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You ever think horcruxes get lonely?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus paused at the odd question. "What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Harry said, fully aware that answer wasn't going to
      fly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you know what a horcrux is, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded affirmatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you know how they're made? And how supposedly you can't
      make more than one because it'd leave you insane?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no," Albus said catching on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded ruefully. "You ever hear Voldemort's spiel on how
      seven is the most magically powerful number?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seven?" Albus whispered the word in horror. "Now is really not
      the time for your offbeat sense of humor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry admitted with a scratch of his head. "This world
      is different. I mean a lot's the same, but not everything. Even
      still, I'm reasonably sure on the number."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know where they are," Albus realized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This world's different," Harry retorted. "They're not even all
      the same objects here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sat back and relaxed slightly, secure in the knowledge
      that Harry had been investigating them. "How so?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw a calculating look in the old man's eye. "Alright,
      well, I know of one that's definitely new to me. And to be honest,
      I'm kind of surprised you haven't figured it out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus arched an eyebrow. "Godric's Hollow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry realized he'd spoken too soon on what the Headmaster knew
      and nodded. "My death was used to make a horcrux out of Sirius
      Black's skull."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh my word," Albus muttered in dawning realization that
      Voldemort was truly beyond redemption.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And in this world," Harry continued. "From what I hear, the
      Dark Lord doesn't even have a familiar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to my knowledge," Albus replied when Harry waited for a
      response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "In mine, he had a snake named Nagini, which he
      possessed frequently and contained another piece of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus cast a quick Patronus charm, sending a ghostly phoenix
      from his office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Albus warningly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor McGonagall was about to interrupt us," Albus said,
      knowing the brotherhood charm would assure Harry. "I told her this
      was a bad time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you need to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, please," Albus said urging Harry to stay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry offered. "I just got your note, and figured I'd
      drop by while Sirius sleeps off his bender."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do have dinner plans I'd prefer not cancel," Albus urged. "So
      why don't you tell me which horcruxes you've already located and
      which others you are still looking for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't surprised at what the Headmaster had deduced. "What
      makes you think that… yeah. Who am I kidding?" Harry gave up acting
      coy. "Three of them are safe. Three of them aren't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus felt pleasantly surprised. "You have recovered three of
      them? And I thought you said there were seven."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Six horcruxes, the seventh piece of soul stayed
      in him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Albus said in understanding. "What can you tell me
      about them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "I'm not some resource for you to tap, Albus. Nor
      am I member of your Order." Harry clenched and sent magic into the
      brotherhood charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus clenched and strengthened the charm on his end. He
      forcefully asserted, "Nor am I the man for whom you hold so many
      conflicting emotions." Albus softened. "I do not see you as a
      resource, Harry. I'm not proud of the Albus Dumbledore you knew in
      your old world. And I cannot say that faced with the decisions he
      had to make, that I would have made them any differently. But I
      will not accept the blame you feel he deserves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked away, slightly embarrassed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This charm," Albus said flaring the brotherhood bond, "is so
      that we can better understand each other and work together. It
      should not be a security blanket because you suspect ulterior
      motives in my every action."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know. It's not you," Harry argued. "I'm just… I'm feeling a
      lot more vulnerable suddenly and frankly, paranoia's probably saved
      my life a time or two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus popped a lemon drop into his own mouth and smiled. "True.
      But it's probably cost you opportunities as well. Would you like to
      talk about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up at the Headmaster. He hesitated before
      answering, "Not really, but even if I did, this is stuff I have to
      talk to Sirius about first anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Dumbledore accepted. "And so now when I politely
      inquire about the horcruxes, can I assume you won't think I only
      want your knowledge and to be rid of you? Or that my only concern
      in things is how they pertain to the downfall of Voldemort?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes, point made," Harry grumbled. "Now you're just rubbing
      it in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus held a pleasant smile that slipped into a slight frown
      when Harry stayed quiet. "How can I help you locate the other
      horcruxes if you won't tell me anything? I suspect I know more
      about this world than you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The skull," Harry decided. "That's the one you should focus
      on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded slowly in thought. "And what of the others?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The three that are safe…" Harry paused, "you don't need to
      worry about." Harry saw Albus giving him a knowing look and
      explained, "It's between me and Sirius, I'm not just being
      petulant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mmm-hmm," Albus said doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The other two?" Harry said, running through things in his own
      mind. "I think… I think someone else got to them already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sat up suddenly. "Someone else knows? The wizard in
      black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone," Harry shrugged. "I'm pretty sure it's not a Dark Lord
      approved someone, but I don't know why they're collecting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was still thinking about the note from the other horcrux
      hunter and answered distractedly, "The Slytherin family ring in my
      world was hidden at the Gaunt house. When I looked I saw signs it
      had once been there and there were collapsing wards surrounding the
      former hiding place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned. "You don't think Voldemort removed it for
      safe-keeping?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Albus, suddenly realizing how distracted he'd
      been. "For reasons I'm not going to go into."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sat back and raised his hands in surrender. "I'm not
      pushing. Just asking once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry chuckled as he decided on exactly what he would
      reveal. "I will tell you that I think That Fucker or whoever it is
      that has the ring, that they also have the diary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The diary?" Albus perked up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The other horcrux," Harry confirmed. "It too appeared to have
      been moved by the same person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where was it?" Albus inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snapped his mouth shut. He shook his head. "It wasn't
      there, so it doesn't matter." Harry glanced at his watch. "Why
      don't we call it a day and you can make your dinner plans?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked at Harry hopefully. "There isn't anything else
      you'd like to share?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually," Harry said taking pleasure in playing with Albus'
      emotions. "I need to talk to Jimmy before I go. You mind telling me
      where he is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned. "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was that a 'no' you don't mind? Or a-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll just take a moment," Harry argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus reached into one of his drawers and twisted a number of
      concentric circles until a point lit up with a blue light and
      settled. "He's coming here. If it'll just take a moment, you can
      talk here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wore a look of mock disappointment. "You don't even trust
      me to meet with Jimmy alone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus inclined his head to look over his glasses at Harry. "And
      what happened the last time you met with Jimmy alone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I memory charmed him and made it look like you did it," Harry
      bashfully admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mmm-hmm," Albus said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was that thing anyway?" Harry said pointing towards the
      Headmaster's desk drawer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled mirthfully. "I'm not surprised you didn't recognize
      it. It's a way to contact and coordinate with the prefects and the
      Head Boy and Girl. The circles are each linked with a badge. I've
      instructed the Head Boy to come to my office and that it is not an
      emergency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmph," Harry chided. "I'll have you know your counterpart felt
      I deserved the prefect badge but didn't want to burden me with the
      whole prophecy and chosen one stuff already on my plate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus presented an almost genuine look of embarrassment. "My
      apologies. And the Head Boy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were dead by then," Harry grinned victoriously. "Pity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned when Harry stuck his tongue out at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster?" Jimmy called out as he opened the office door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in, Mr. Potter, come in," Albus urged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy noticed the other person present. "Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hiya, Jimmy," Harry greeted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing here?" Jimmy asked glancing between the
      Headmaster and Harry. "You didn't do anything stupid, did you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry used a magical arm to flick his sort of brother in the
      ear. "Watch it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy swatted uselessly by his ear and turned to the Headmaster
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus motioned towards Harry. "Lord Black wished to have a brief
      word with you." Albus saw both Potters giving him the same look but
      he wasn't going anywhere. "I feel the need to chaperone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled out his Lookie Talkies and handed one to Jimmy. "I
      wanted to make sure you had a way to instantly contact me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy accepted the small mirror in confusion. "Thanks, Harry.
      Not that I don't appreciate it but is there something I should
      know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent question," Albus immediately responded. "Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said with a glare at the Headmaster. "Nothing you
      should know. I'm just being cautious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cautious?" Jimmy repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Yeah, cautious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked at Harry and saw he was done. "Thank you, James.
      That will be all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster," Jimmy bid goodbye. "See you, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Jimmy," Harry suddenly recalled. "Do me a favor and please,
      please, don't use that mirror to shave your balls."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy looked at his half of the Lookie Talkie set again. "No
      worries. I doubt it's sharp enough even if I wanted to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved goodbye as Jimmy disappeared out the door. Harry
      felt worry creep into his stomach. "He was just kidding,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I like to think so, but I wouldn't bet the castle on it," Albus
      grinned knowing the Head Boy's appreciation for taking advantage of
      the stereotypes of Gryffindors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided not to give it any further thought. "I'm going to
      go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I find anything noteworthy about the… <em class="calibre8">items</em>, shall
      I contact you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said in surprise. "I'd appreciate that. I've got
      some personal stuff kinda going on right now that I need to figure
      out, but I'll be around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus carefully worded. "Is this 'stuff' the reason you're
      feeling 'cautious'?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I just got a bad feeling. By giving Jimmy a
      mirror, now he'll most likely never have an occasion to need to use
      it. But if I'd thought about it, and I'd not given him the mirror,
      then inevitably he would have needed it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus stroked his beard. "I knew a man who utilized similar
      logic. On the days that clear weather was especially important, he
      would always carry an umbrella, in hopes to stave off the rain. It
      worked for him twice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See? Exactly," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus thinned his lips adding, "And then it rained for two years
      straight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry responded with the strongest logic in his arsenal. "You're
      a poohead too. Goodbye," Harry said as he left the office.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Okay, what was that?" Sarah quietly asked when she felt they
      were out of earshot.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was what?" Lily replied in a whisper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black knows his way around Hogwarts better than you
      think," Sarah repeated in a deep and mocking voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't sound like that," Lily scolded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's debatable, but I meant the unspoken 'wink, wink, nudge,
      nudge' in your tone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily sometimes forgot how observant her daughter was. "You know
      we all assumed the Lord Blacks never went to Hogwarts, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily looked both ways before answering, "The way he expected the
      doors to open, that's a relatively common mistake. But it's common
      in graduates coming back to the castle for the first time. People
      with seven years experience of the doors opening for them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah looked over at her mum. "You think Harry went to
      Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily walked into the Hog's Head as her daughter held the door
      open. "I don't see how we could have missed him, but yeah, I think
      he went to Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's younger than Tonks," Sarah replied. "Goodness knows she's
      been bragging about that enough. So did he change his name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily saw Gin Weasley behind the bar looking at her when the
      forward young woman loudly asked. "The usual?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, please," Lily and Sarah said as they dropped their cloaks
      onto the backs of their chairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like we'd ever risk anything else here," Sarah muttered
      quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily smirked at her daughter. "I've heard some people rave about
      the Friday Fried Surprise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's like calling Bertie Botts your favorite candy. You know
      what it is, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily shook her head. "I thought it was a secret, hence the
      surprise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She just refries the leftovers from throughout the week. No two
      orders taste the same and she's not even sure what most of them
      are. That's the surprise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's revolting," Lily calmly decided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's bar food," Sarah assured her. "The idea is to get you
      drunk enough not to really look at what you're eating. And make the
      food salty enough that you need another drink."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm beginning to think you're a little too familiar with bar
      room settings," Lily chided. "You know what they'll do to your
      skin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh please. The Hog's Head hardly counts as a bar. No one comes
      here looking to dance or looking to <em class="calibre8">dance</em>. And you never
      answered my question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily took a moment to remember the question and frowned. "I
      don't want to spend all our time gossiping about Harry. I feel like
      we never get to talk anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Sarah readily agreed. "What's on your mind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily smiled back and opened her mouth, only to snap it shut a
      few seconds later. She opened her mouth again and began to make a
      hand gesture, before catching herself and closing her mouth once
      more. She came to a decision and was about to speak when Gin
      Weasley arrived with their order.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two beer nut salads," Gin announced settling down the large
      bowls. "And two house ales. Anything else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah had already picked up her fork and answered, "Yeah. Do you
      know if Harry Black went to Hogwarts under a different name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin actually stumbled at the mix of the question and the oaths
      preventing her immediate response. "Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily was intrigued by the unexpected reaction. "This all looks
      wonderful, Gin. Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My pleasure," Gin said with a nod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were just about to gossip about the Lord Blacks. Care to
      join us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were, eh?" Sarah said grinning at her mum.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on, Gin," Sarah urged. "I'll tell you all about how
      awkward Mum is around Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Gin said brimming with curiosity. She untied her apron
      and spun it around to her side. "Now what's this about Harry and
      awkward?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily glared her daughter into silence and pounced on the new
      addition to their table. "Before we get into that, Miss Weasley, I
      think we need to have a talk about using permanent marker in
      improper ways on my son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin Weasley looked at Sarah for help and gulped. "Yes, Mrs.
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax," Lily said with a grin. "I'm just having you on. I know
      it was Harry and Sirius who did that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh good," Gin said with a forced laugh. "You really had me
      going there, Mrs. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah raised a curious eyebrow, wondering if her little
      brother's crush wasn't as unrequited as she first assumed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny saw both Potter women scrutinizing her and defiantly
      urged. "Were you saying something about Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily glared, every bit the mother thinking of her baby, and then
      nodded pleasantly. "He acts like he went to Hogwarts. But none of
      us recognize him or anyone similar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He probably would have gone around your time," Sarah said with
      a nod towards Gin. "Maybe a couple of years older, but he's younger
      than Tonks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin tapped her chin, deep in thought. "You're thinking about
      Fred and George's year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anywhere around there," Sarah replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin was slowly shaking her head. "No, I can't think of any
      wizards fitting Harry's attitude and power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a wild theory," Lily offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But," Gin interrupted, pointing a finger in the air and
      maintaining her perfectly stoic expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Lily perked up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin began to slowly nod. "But there was this one witch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Sarah gaped, "way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily furrowed her brow. "You think Harry's…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Gin lied. "But there was that one witch who was
      always so quiet and really strong magically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew those eyelashes looked too good," Sarah cheered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily frowned. "So are you implying he's a male who pretended to
      be female in school? Or a female pretending to be male now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well you know," Gin confided, "Auror Lupin is a Black by birth,
      so there's definitely a metamorph gift in the bloodline. Maybe
      Harry's…" Gin shifted her hands as if testing imaginary weights. "A
      little from column A and a litlle from column B."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah's face was momentarily stuck in mix of disbelief and
      disgust. She shook her head and turned to her mother. "Didn't you
      have a wild theory?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It somehow doesn't feel as wild as it did a moment ago," Lily
      said in bewilderment. "But considering it appears he went to
      Hogwarts and no one knows him, I thought that he might simply be a
      time traveler."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin shook an accusing finger. "That would actually explain the
      dual Lord Black thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah gasped and pointed at her mother. "That's why you two get
      retarded around each other. He's like your great, great grandson
      from the future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin tilted her head to look at Lily. "He does have your
      eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I noticed that," Lily uncomfortably admitted. "But I'm not so
      sure he's from the future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you saying?" Sarah asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily took a deep breath before quietly conceding, "That I think
      he might be… could be… your real grandfather."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah blinked, exclaiming loudly. "You think he's your dad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin was leaning off to her side, having a small coughing
      fit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily shrugged helplessly. "I don't know. But he's fully aware of
      whatever's weird between us and I'm grasping at straws."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah saw Gin wasn't going to be any help and inquired, "I
      didn't think you could travel to the future, only the past."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Time turners only go to the past, but supposedly there are
      spells that can go anywhere. And besides you don't have to actually
      travel to reach the future," Lily said. "All it takes is a magical
      accident to put you in a fifty year stasis, and in a blink of an
      eye, it's just like you traveled to the future."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gin held up a hand after she'd composed herself. "Just to be
      clear, we're talking about the possibility that Harry is your dad,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Lily replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fantastic," Gin agreed helping herself to a sip of Sarah's
      ale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah was still shaking her head distressed at the possibility
      of dealing with a really hot grandfather. "What led you to this
      theory?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily shrugged. "I don't know what Harry's hiding, but he takes
      every opportunity he can to hug me." Lily frowned as she admitted,
      "And he feels guilty about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So like he missed out on raising you," Sarah concluded. "That's
      nuts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily sighed. "Yeah, it is. But if you ever watch him, I mean
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> watch him, you'll see. He acts like he's woken up
      in a world that looks the same just all the people are brand
      new."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoa," Gin was impressed. "Deep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is great," Sarah sarcastically bit out while rubbing the
      bridge of her nose. "Either Harry is my grandfather or somewhere in
      the range of fifty to a hundred percent female."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily chuckled at the simplicity of the summation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't say that," Gin disagreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got another theory?" Sarah looked up hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Gin said with a bright grin. "I just meant that it's not
      either-or. He could be both."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"I've been thinking."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I've been drinking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glared at his godfather. "Sirius, stop it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can drop it," Sirius agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry growled. "Do you really want me to set back your
      healing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Sirius pouted. "That prospect is not very appealing."
      Sirius saw he was quickly nearing the 'poke-in-the-eye' level of
      irritation. "Perhaps if you were more revealing? Stop concealing
      that feeling? Okay I'm done, don't hurt me." Sirius had his arms up
      to protect himself and added, "Or send me reeling through the
      ceiling."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby snickered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't laugh," Harry warned the elf. "We don't want to encourage
      this sort of behavior."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned at the amused elf. "I've been doing a little
      thinking too, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah?" Harry looked up. "What have you been thinking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," Sirius said. "I think most people don't really
      appreciate how much more complicated wiping is when you're dealing
      with a hairy bum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padfoot," Harry grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not kidding," Sirius continued. "Girls especially can't
      comprehend the dynamics necessary to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cut him off with a silencing charm. "Dobby, you can stay
      or go, but if you stay please turn invisible. Sirius can't seem to
      stop playing to an audience today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby smiled and snapped his fingers disappearing from view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had managed to break the silencing charm and pouted.
      "Fine, I've been thinking about the thing too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked emboldened. "And?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I think if we're going to do something, we're better off
      sooner than later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Me too. Albus will connect us with the burglaries
      real soon, if he hasn't already. Our options are just going to get
      more and more limited."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think?" Sirius wondered. "But we're always so slick about
      making the robberies all quiet and clever. You know, like the
      opposite of the loud, blunt, and obnoxious public image we've been
      cultivating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cultivating?" Harry repeated. "You've just been yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Myself?" Sirius said, choking back the tears. "You don't think
      I wish I could stop hiding? Treating it like a disease, just
      because I want to be a dancer?" Sirius did a pirouette and nearly
      lost his balance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked away tiredly. "Padfoot, Dobby's not even listening
      to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snickered. "Sure he is. I can hear him laughing in the
      corner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," the invisible elf's voice carried from the corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Invisible and silent, if you stay," Harry said loudly. A snap
      of elven fingers was the only response Harry received.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What'll Albus do when he figures it out?" Sirius asked
      returning to more earnest conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "Probably not much. He won't approve, but with a
      supposed greater good of checking Death Eater homes for horcruxes,
      he'll understand. I'm more concerned with the mystery note
      fucker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?" Sirius urged Harry to continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wanted us to get the note with the fake diary," Harry
      summarized. "Now he may think we got the note and aren't jumping to
      meet him but he'll probably have to assume that we didn't get it.
      In which case, he either will leave notes at other horcrux
      locations -locations we don't know- or he'll try and contact us
      another way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not thinking of actually going to the Shrieking
      Shack?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Definitely not," Harry said. "We both need to stay away from
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think we should just wait for him to contact us again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry bit his lip uncertainly. "Actually, I'm thinking we force
      him to come to us on our terms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius perked up. "You think he'll do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry warily argued, "I think he'll have to. He can't be certain
      we got the letter. And if he doesn't show, then it proves his
      claims of cooperation and an alliance were disingenuous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Drawbacks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let out a tired breath. "What I'm thinking will clearly
      alert the Dark Lord that his horcruxes aren't safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's probably heard about Malfoy's floor vault," Sirius pointed
      out. "And I doubt he missed the fires from Grindelwald's old bunker
      either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I mean I'm almost certain he knows," Harry agreed. "But
      this will move us up his 'to-kill-painfully' list."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you saying we should do exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's face was grim as he explained. "Set our own trap with
      live bait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Live? How live?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I say we hold a private auction, by invitation only for
      Ravenclaw's cube, Slytherin's locket, and Hufflepuff's cup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' eyes widened in shock. "And just who would we be
      inviting? I'm doubting an owl to That Fucker will reach him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head with a smirk. "We're not inviting a single
      person. We just want the people who'd be crashing this party."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Sirius agreed with a manic look in his eyes. "Yes,
      crashing this party… <em class="calibre8">of doom</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry was perturbed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius motioned exaggeratedly. "I thought we were trying to add
      a little flair to our conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "Dobby? You have to leave the room. I'm sorry. And
      Sirius? Stop playing to an audience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius realized Harry wasn't acting overdramatic, he simply was
      overdramatic. Sirius saw Harry looked pretty determined too. "So
      the only people who will understand what we're auctioning are
      Voldemort and our mystery fucker?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore will too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius couldn't think of any better ideas. "You know this may
      well mark the end of the Death Eater Bandits."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "With half the horcruxes, we have more to lose
      than we do to gain by continuing. The ward sets have been getting
      nastier because they know we're coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded having thought similar things. "But we can still
      make exceptions when opportunities present themselves, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely," Harry agreed. "And you know, someday in the
      future, there will be people, who desperately need to be robbed.
      And they may not have any tattoos on their arms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smiled happily, picturing a bright future. "Very well
      then," Sirius said as though coming to a grand conclusion. "Let's
      just see who is interested in," Sirius snapped his head to face
      Harry, "buying some of this dark bastard's soul!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh for Merlin's sake," Harry grumbled rubbing his temples as a
      headache formed. "You've got no audience! Why are you doing
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stood up challengingly. "You're my audience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's my idea," Harry pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah but," Sirius argued. "But you're not really saying it with
      any… panache."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched his godfather wiggle his hips and began to wonder
      if Sirius really did want to become a dancer. "You're an
      idiot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you're an idiot," Sirius petulantly retorted. "And a drama
      queen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up dangerously. "Excuse me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah-ha," Sirius exclaimed pointing at Harry. "See?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fought the urge to huff. "You're a poohead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, you're the poohead, poohead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped a beat unsure how to reply to that one. "Are we
      done now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, we're done," Sirius agreed. "Poohead."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
