<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s28" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 27</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: Big thanks to the guys that
      help me get these chapters right: IP, Chuck, Jim, Chris, Rob, JJ,
      Sean, and everyone else I'm forgetting.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't sure what an anxiety attack felt like, but guessed
      this would be as good a time as any to find out. He looked
      pleadingly at Dumbledore. "Uhh…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus shook his head negatively at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry uneasily met the shell-shocked gazes of all the Potters in
      the room and turned back to the Headmaster, silently begging him
      with wide unblinking eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Albus insisted firmly with a stern expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh… uh… uhh…" Harry stuttered before settling on a course of
      action.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, <em class="calibre8">no</em>!" Albus said wagging his finger at the
      younger man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was trying to come up with ways of interpreting 'no' into
      meaning 'yes' or at least 'alright, but just this once.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus Snape finally broke the suffocating tension with a loud
      gasp. "You're the Potter hellspawn in the prophecy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew exactly how to respond to that accusation.
      "<em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus deftly parried the memory charm and assumed a defensive
      position. "How dare you!" He sent back a disarming charm that Harry
      blocked with little effort. "Headmaster, are you just going to
      stand there and let him-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>," Albus regrettably cast, just as Severus
      turned his direction. The Potions Master flashed a shocked look of
      betrayal just before his eyes glazed over. He fell into a gentle
      sleep from a swish of Albus' wand. Albus frowned at Harry, showing
      how distasteful albeit necessary his actions were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Albus," Harry said, relaxing momentarily with a
      supremely grateful smile. "But you missed a whole lot of the
      others." He finished pointing towards everyone else in the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Albus scolded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WHAT THE BLOODY HELL IS GOING ON?" James finally exploded,
      holding his wand at the ready.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily was visibly shaken. She looked to be teetering on the brink
      of collapsing into tears. "Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the closest thing to his mum that he'd ever
      remembered and could find no words. "Blih…ber… bluh…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need some answers," James demanded, swinging his wand arm
      across the room. "Right <em class="calibre8">fucking</em> now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah was frowning. "You can't be grandpa if you're a
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" James snapped in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is this about the basilisk?" Jimmy wondered aloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" James snapped again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know about the basilisk?" Albus jerked in
      surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, not the basilisk," Jimmy meekly said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" Lily repeated unable to move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James suddenly put two and two together. His voice was as quiet
      this time as it had been loud before. "<em class="calibre8">Sirius</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop!" Harry shouted, attracting everyone's attention. "Stop!
      You've all got the wrong idea. Just give me a second here." He held
      his hand up and took a moment to collect himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One second turned into three, and three became five before Albus
      realized Harry was calculating. "Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry admitted, biting his bottom lip, still hoping to
      wake up from this emotional nightmare.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah could tell Harry was hesitant to tell them everything and
      decided to start small. "Just how closely are we related? Because I
      feel dirty already and if you're just a drifter pretending to be my
      dead older brother…" Sarah trailed off as everyone looked at her.
      "What? It could happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's trying to hide the fact that he's our brother," Jimmy said
      looking at his sister and trying to remember if she always had that
      freckle by her eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm <em class="calibre8">not</em> your brother. If anything I'm trying to hide
      the fact that I'm not… your… okay this is getting confusing." Harry
      said distractedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just tell them the truth, Harry. They need to hear this from
      you," Albus urged. "And you must know I will correct any and all
      falsities in your story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James turned to the Headmaster hostilely. "You knew about
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus took a step back at the vehemence suddenly directed his
      way. "So did Tonks," Albus pointed and sold out the auror
      subordinate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Tonks whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus held up his hands in a gentle and calming manner. "And
      please let Harry explain before you jump to the wrong
      conclusions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all turned to look at Harry, who turned to look at his
      godfather. "Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had thought it was hilarious to see how rattled his
      godson had become, especially since it had been Harry and not him
      who had messed this one up. But the sheer anger James was
      exhibiting coupled with how scared and fragile Lily looked made the
      situation a lot less amusing to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius opened his mouth to say something and stopped at the
      sight of his former best friend. He opened his mouth once more,
      managed to produce a slightly strangled sound before finally just
      saying, "Good luck, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius instantaneously popped into his animagus form and
      burrowed under Harry's hospital bed, letting out sad little warbled
      barking the whole way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James' wand fell from his hand the second he saw Sirius'
      transformation. His entire body deflated in defeat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Coward," Harry grumbled at the canine hiding out of sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily staggered forward and gripped onto Harry's arm franticly.
      "Please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's heart never stood a chance at that look and he gave up.
      "You're right. I'm sorry. You all deserve an explanation. And I'm
      going to give you one." He took a deep breath and let it out.
      "Right now." He nodded resolutely. "This very minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Albus cried while fighting the urge to strangle the
      young man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, okay," Harry said grabbing a hold of Lily's hand. "This
      may take a while, so you'll want to sit down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily wasn't going anywhere just yet, and kept a sweaty hold of
      Harry's hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry said as he uncertainly began. "Okay, I was born
      Harry Potter, son of James and Lily Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily gasped, quietly mouthing, "My baby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James was confused. "My son is a… blood purist?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not a blood purist!" Harry pleaded before remembering, "And
      I'm not your son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think your headache might be contagious," Jimmy said
      clenching his eyes in discomfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry quickly agreed. "Maybe we should take a few
      minutes to relax our Occlumency shields and look towards my
      wand-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Albus shouted pointing his wand at the young man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can they be your parents and you not be my brother?" Sarah
      logically questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Jimmy said thinking deeply. "I know I've heard this
      riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not my parents-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that's not it," Jimmy said dismissing Harry's help with the
      riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was getting irritated and shouted over everyone's
      questions. "My parents died Halloween, 1981. They gave their lives
      to save me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily painfully stared at Harry while the other Potters fell back
      in their respective seats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued when he realized they were paying attention. "My
      godfather, Sirius Black, was sent to Azkaban because people thought
      he was our secret keeper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pathetic whimpering came from under the bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not your son," Harry said, pleading with Lily to
      understand. "And you are not my parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily felt struck. She was being rejected and this impostor was
      just trying to hurt her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be a dick, Harry," Tonks said with a frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the way Lily was reacting and exclaimed, "It's nothing
      to do with you! It's me. Trust me. I-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Trust you? Because you've been so <em class="calibre8">honest</em> with us so
      far?" James bitterly reminded. He picked up his wand and pulled his
      distraught wife closer. "Who the hell are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius decided he'd had enough and crawled back out from under
      Harry's bed. He popped right back into place and grabbed a hold of
      Harry's collar. "I think I've heard all I need to from you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just looked at his godfather in confusion as Sirius pulled
      Harry up and slammed him down on the bed behind him. The cushioning
      charms ensured it looked worse than it was. "Sirius? What are
      you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius slapped Harry twice across the face and pointed an
      accusing finger at him. "You know what you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't give Sirius a chance before he'd tackled him to the
      ground. Both of them were rolling across the hospital room floor,
      mere meters from the exit when Albus caught on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flick of his wand and the door swung shut with a loud clap.
      "Don't even think about it," Albus warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry stopped their struggling and looked at the
      door. In unison they both exclaimed, "Bugger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged and said "Sorry, kid. I tried."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you call me?" Harry raged as he picked up and slammed
      his godfather into the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oww," Sirius weakly protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the door hadn't budged and he didn't recognize the
      locking charm Albus had used. "Damn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is enough!" Albus roared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was worth a shot," Harry mumbled, knowing he'd earned this
      chastisement. Harry looked at Sirius curiously. "That door wasn't
      open all along, was it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naw," Sirius said rubbing his sore shoulder. "I opened it while
      I was regrouping under the bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Regrouping?" Harry repeated doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James' patience was once more at its end. "You think this is
      funny? You think toying with us is amusing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, no," Sirius replied. "That was why we were trying to make
      a break for it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I appreciate the effort," Harry said while carefully
      maneuvering his godfather to stand in front of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're welcome," Sirius said, moving over to stand behind
      Tonks. "But you're still telling them your story. Not me. For the
      record though? I'd recommend starting with the dimension traveling
      rather than repeatedly breaking your mum's heart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's face was covered by his palm as he muttered to himself.
      "She's not my mum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dimension traveling?" Peter Potter spoke calmly for the first
      time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, dimension traveling," Harry repeated. "We come from a
      world where my parents died when I was one. So no brother or sister
      for me," Harry said nodding towards Jimmy, who'd moved over to sit
      next to Sarah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry figured he should try and get as many relevant details out
      as he could before curses started flying. "A little before I turned
      sixteen, this was about three years after this knucklehead broke
      out of Azkaban, he got pushed through a dimensional portal of sorts
      and stuck in limbo. Last April, I started studying the portal and
      he got spit out into this world after ten years of basically not
      existing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had to be poked three times before he took over and
      explained, "I woke up in a hospital bed and they asked me who to
      call. Last I knew, Harry'd walked into a Death Eater trap, and of
      course, I thought James Potter had been dead for over a decade, so
      I asked for Remus Lupin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remus knows?" James asked, feeling like the odd man out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks started chuckling. "He's going to be so upset he missed
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want me to go get him?" Harry offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" almost every voice shouted back at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Sirius snickered at Harry's pout. "So anyway, that's
      when I found out it was ten years later and I was in a new world.
      Remus was helping me, and that meant Tonks got to hear my story. I
      was excited and frightened to tell it to you," Sirius said nodding
      towards James. "But that was before I realized you were a
      prick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padfoot," Harry scolded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I wasn't the most understanding bloke," Sirius admitted
      with a roll of his eyes. "But come on. You insulted me, you told
      Jimmy how I was everything wrong, and you lost your bleeding sense
      of humor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James just stood there stupidly, while Lily was wrapped around
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You gotta admit that Prongs, the teenager who graduated
      Hogwarts and the only James Potter I ever knew, would have been
      appalled at what you've turned into."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Harry interrupted. "Stop it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged remorselessly but stayed quiet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I get why you've never grown up," Harry said, earnestly
      addressing his godfather. "I really do. And contrary to just about
      every other adult around, I think it's great. But I also get why
      this James Potter <em class="calibre8">did</em> grow up. And you need to get it as
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I get it… <em class="calibre8">now</em>," Sirius reluctantly admitted. "I might
      not have at first, but I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you?" Harry questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's you, you goofy retard," Sirius said as his eyes began to
      get glossy. "We both lost our best friends. But he lost you too, so
      he had to change. I still had you, so I had to try and be what I
      thought he'd want me to be… for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A smile began to grow, brighter and wider as Harry stood there
      listening to his godfather. He was just grinning proudly at him
      before he realized what was going on. "Oh shit," Harry said wiping
      his eyes. "My allergies are always flaring up this time of the
      year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it the hay fever?" Tonks asked with a grin. "Or maybe the
      bullshit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was rubbing his sleeve across his face too. "Whatever it
      is, it brought some bugs with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily had managed to detach from James and scurried over to
      Harry, wrapping her arms around him as her tears were flowing
      freely. "Oh Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A little help, guys?" Harry pleaded as Lily's body shook with
      sobs. "She's crying, guys. Like big honking tears. This isn't going
      to help my allergies." Harry said in between loud sniffles.
      "Please? Anyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone seemed content to let Harry struggle with the
      emotionally exhausted Lily Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There, there," Harry said, inside praying that she would stop
      crying. He awkwardly patted her back. "There, there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" Albus encouraged. "Perhaps you could continue with your
      story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just held on to Lily who had moved around and was now
      resting her head on his shoulder. He looked at her with
      suspiciously bright eyes and continued. "Right, okay. Well, about
      two months after I started working on the portal, I got sucked in
      it too. So it was around the start of June, that I ended up in this
      world. I looked up Moony in the muggle phone book and tracked down
      Sirius. Since then, I've been kinda playing catch up with a new
      history of the world as I know it and… yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Harry, for such a richly detailed account," Albus
      blandly retorted. "I suspect the Potters would like to know a
      little more about your life, your youth, your friends, your
      accomplishments."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily seemed to be getting a hold of herself but still wasn't
      letting go of Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter saw Harry looked uncomfortable. "Anywhere you'd care to
      start is fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to hear about that scar on your head," Sarah
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we died, then who saved you?" James inquired. "Who protected
      you when we couldn't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if Sirius was in Azkaban," Lily said looking up brightly.
      "Where'd you grow up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy was scratching his head. "Is anyone else getting a strong
      feeling of déjà vu?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh boy," Harry muttered to himself. He was trying to figure out
      which question would lead to the least unpleasant conversation.
      "Can we take a break or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still have a headache?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What headache?" Harry said before catching himself. "I mean
      yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want to release me from my oath?" Tonks asked, knowing a
      big chunk of Harry's secrets were out in the open now among the
      Potters. "I can help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius nodded at each other. "You're good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks turned to Sarah, then James, and then Lily in order. "It's
      from a reflected killing curse. You guys saved him. I think Lily
      did some sacrificial protection charm thing. And he grew up with
      the Dursleys." Tonks paused on Jimmy and looked back at Harry. "You
      did, didn't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had winced at every blunt answer and nodded guiltily to
      her question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James frowned and turned inquisitively to Albus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was having entirely too much fun and explained, "Why do
      you think I kept checking him for memory charms?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said moving over towards Jimmy and drawing his
      wand. "Let me go ahead and undo that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James jumped forward pointing his wand straight at Harry. "Step
      away from my son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just barely glanced over his shoulder, ripped the wand
      from James' hand, and pinned both of his arms to his sides.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a gentle tap, Harry broke the memory charm on Jimmy, who
      was staring cross-eyed at the wand between his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Jimmy said blinking away a split second of confusion.
      "Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a step back and his magical arms released their hold
      of James Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James was incensed at how easily he'd been dismissed as a threat
      but a part of him felt awfully proud thinking of the kind of wizard
      his first son would have become. He felt the vice like grip on his
      arms dissipate and plucked his floating wand out of the air. He
      strode over to his youngest. "You okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy nodded. "I saw the name Harry Potter on the-" Jimmy
      stopped suddenly. "Umm… thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you have the map," James assured him. "I told Remus to
      give it to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did?" Jimmy asked in surprise. "Why didn't you just give it
      to me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't want to set a bad example," James sheepishly admitted.
      "And I don't always like remembering those days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy knew his older brother and dad's best friend were
      difficult topics for his dad. "Harry told me about his world and
      then I told him to memory charm me." He was scratching his head.
      "Though that night is still a bit fuzzy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the alcohol," Harry explained. "Not a charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah stuck her arm into the air, waiting to be called on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sarah?" James asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we back it up a second? Because I could have sworn Tonks
      said reflected killing curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's my girl!" came the muffled exclamation from Madam
      Pomfrey's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone stopped and turned to the cracked open door at the end
      of the wing. They all remained silent and looked at the Headmaster.
      Albus tiredly nodded and walked towards the office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said that too loud, didn't I?" the question came clearly from
      the office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poppy," Albus greeted as he found her holding a cup up to her
      ear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster," Poppy said, still holding the cup.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You understand what I have to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey pulled the cup down and stated. "I have another
      option. I'll swear an oath. I just want to stay here and
      listen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked at the matron silently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professional curiosity," she explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus tilted his head, indicating she should try again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Pomfrey gave up the act and quietly confided, "This is
      better than my soaps on the Wizamundo Wireless. Please don't take
      this from me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked at Harry and saw no significant objection. "Let's
      figure out the wording for your oath." Albus stepped in the office
      and pulled the door closed behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James watched Harry as he asked, "Did you survive a killing
      curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was my mum's shield mostly, but yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Marked as an equal</em>," Sirius ominously said eliciting
      several gasps around the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, thank you, Sirius," Harry sarcastically chided. "I always
      love when the conversation inevitably gets to my preordained trip
      down murdering lane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You… beat him?" James asked, suddenly remembering the very
      public duel. "Of course you did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah was again hung up on the words. "Murdering is just a
      figure of speech, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's being a drama queen," Sirius replied with a nod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was about to poke Sirius in the eye when he got a better
      idea. "Since you seem so eager to answer questions, it's your turn,
      Padfoot." Harry picked his godfather up with invisible arms and
      plopped him right in the middle of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius gulped at being thrust into the limelight but stood there
      waiting patiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did he beat Voldemort?" James asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shifted his weight to the other foot. "That's a
      complicated-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry interrupted with a whine. "Ask him questions about
      him. This guy comes from a whole different world. Aren't you
      curious?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone remained silent until James shrugged and answered. "I
      knew a Sirius Black pretty well. I have only unfulfilled dreams for
      Harry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's jaw snapped shut with an audible click.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thing is," Sirius said, pondering a diplomatic answer. "Harry's
      not real big on talking about this kind of stuff. If it was
      anything that could help here, I know he'd be doing something about
      it. I haven't even heard all the details."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But," James was desperate. "If you did it once, you can do it
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said glancing at Lily Potter. "I can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You broke his neck," James pleaded. "He was paralyzed and if he
      hadn't had a portkey, he was done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not that simple," Harry said. "And don't underestimate
      Voldemort. That was a lot of luck because we had a lot of surprise
      on our side."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter cleared his throat and sounded almost cold for the first
      time. "I think you'll find we all know how seriously to take
      Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spoke apologetically. "I'm sorry, but I'm not your savior.
      I did what it took to beat my Dark Lord. And the closest thing to
      solace I have is the knowledge that I can't ever do that again.
      It's not an option."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the prophecy…" James begged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is about someone else," Harry finished for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter was able to see the larger picture more clearly than the
      other Potters. "It would have been nice if Voldemort was as certain
      as you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry flinched and stayed quiet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" James asked his uncle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter was watching Harry as he explained. "Have you not wondered
      just why Voldemort chose to attack Potters this morning? It wasn't
      because of any widely known Potters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all turned to Harry looking for an explanation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter felt a bit guilty but continued. "He obviously made the
      connection and targeted us for that reason. I doubt it's
      coincidence that tomorrow the Blacks are auctioning his ancestor's
      locket either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit," Harry said turning to Sirius. "We've got to prepare for
      the auction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, you don't," Lily said moving forward to grab onto
      Harry's arm. "We won't keep you all night, but we're not done
      talking yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked to Sirius for help. Sirius just grinned and
      scolded, "Be nice to your mother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's not my m- You're not my mother," Harry repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe not," Lily strained to agree. "But you and I need to have
      a private conversation before you leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to have one with both of you as well," James said in
      determination to Harry and Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh joy," Sirius said with a forced smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus had quietly emerged from the matron's office and made his
      presence known. "You are still going through with the auction?
      After today's events, you know it's going to be even worse
      tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax, Albus," Harry assured. "We are prepared for almost any
      eventuality. Even if the Dark Lord makes the mistake of dropping
      by."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will you at least then permit me to judge your preparations
      myself and assist you?" Albus inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See there's this thing called plausible deniability."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Albus said, as was becoming habit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought it over and suggested, "You may just want to stay
      away altogether."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to be there," Albus retorted with certainty. "Whether
      it's to help or keep an eye on you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned. "How much did you pay for your invitation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled thinly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The goblins know there's no chance we're going to accept any of
      the supposed offers," Harry explained. "Their cut is all of the
      bribe money they can get for invitations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might as well tell them," Peter advised the Headmaster. "I
      probably overpaid at 250 galleons for mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Potter?" Harry looked at the Peter curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you to call me PJ," Peter warmly reminded. "And I
      figured anything you two were neck deep in would be worth being
      ringside for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"PJ," a contrite Harry said. "I thought you'd be angrier over
      the whole… endangering-all-Potters thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am upset," Peter stoically assured. "But as it turns out
      you're a Potter by birth. And you both reacted immediately and
      effectively once you realized your mistake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we've got 250," Sirius said looking at the Headmaster. "Do I
      hear higher? Lower?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter glanced at Albus and answered. "He's not embarrassed
      enough. He didn't pay anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded at Lord Potter's powers of deduction. "I convinced
      Bloodthrust that I was working with you. And I had the magic of a
      brotherhood charm to prove it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cheater," Sirius grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noted the air had a 'calm after the storm' feel to it.
      After a few seconds of silence he asked, "So what now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, let's talk," Lily said jumping up and beginning to pull
      Harry with her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Albus said attracting the young man's attention. He
      gave him a significant look and nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew what Albus was intimating, but couldn't help himself.
      "You think I should?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded. "I think you need this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Harry agreed. "I'll memory charm this one while you
      take care of the rest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kidding," Harry defended. "Geez, take it easy, Albus. You're
      not that young anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let Lily pull him down to her private quarters where she
      quickly established privacy charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why Mrs. Potter, are you trying to seduce-" Harry stopped and
      agreed with the look on her face. "Yeah, creepy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The shield," Lily said turning to face Harry. "The shield that
      protected you. That's why I'm drawn to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kind of," Harry reluctantly answered. "But not really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it sounds like an idea I had." Lily was watching Harry
      closely. "That involved sacrificing my magic and tricking the
      attacker into sealing a new blood bond tying my soul into an
      eternal protection from that attacker specifically."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded woefully. "My mum didn't exactly leave me her spell
      notes, but that sounds about right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew it would be strong, but…" Lily shook her head in
      astonishment. "Reflecting a killing curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled weakly. "When he possessed a wizard my mere touch
      burned them. It was stronger than any protection I've ever heard
      of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily sat up in understanding. "So when you came into this world,
      the bond got transferred?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not exactly," Harry replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily thought she had figured out the affect Harry had on her.
      "Why not? How do you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know because the bond is gone. And it has been for a
      while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And actually the protection it offered has been gone even
      longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't understand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew he couldn't keep putting this off. "When I was
      fourteen, he used my blood in a rebirthing ritual that gave him a
      body again. With my blood running through his veins, it negated the
      protection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily was running through her theory. "It shouldn't have negated
      the protection. What probably happened was that it protected him
      from the adverse effects of the protection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded slowly, adding this piece of information to his
      understanding. "That actually makes a lot of sense and explains a
      few things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like what?" Lily was curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like why Albus was so insistent that I keep the blood wards
      active at Privet Drive after Voldemort's rebirth. And like my
      scar," Harry said tapping his forehead. "We all assumed it was the
      direct result of the killing curse. But all the curse did was to
      forge a link between my mind and Voldemort's."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no," Lily realized. "The protection fought the link, didn't
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced in agreement. "Any time Voldemort was close or
      using the link, my scar burned. A few times it'd split open and
      bleed. Until now, I never even considered that it was the
      protection that was hurting me, fighting Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," Lily said earnestly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't do anything," Harry assured her. "And it did save my
      life in the face of impossible odds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily nodded, frowning at the pain she knew Harry must have
      endured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the plus side it made it real hard for him to sneak up on
      me," Harry said trying to lighten the mood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily bit her lip. She softly suggested, "I could do it
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No," Harry snapped angrily that this woman would even
      consider such a thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This Voldemort would never see it coming. He'd-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't get it," Harry yelled, cutting her off. "You're not
      my mother. It wouldn't work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily frowned. "Maybe Jimmy could-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop, just shut up," Harry shouted. "If you knew what it would
      do to Jimmy, you'd never even consider it. You're not that cruel.
      Just… forget it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily quickly ascertained there was more going on than she knew.
      She could tell Harry wasn't going to be terribly forthcoming on the
      details without some careful prompting. She gave him a moment to
      collect himself before switching gears. "Since you didn't know it
      was the protection hurting you, then why did you break the
      bond?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes and avoided meeting Lily's gaze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily gasped. "He broke it, didn't he? Just to hurt you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." Harry looked up, as his eyes glistened. "Although now that
      you mention it, he probably knew full well what the protection was
      doing to me. He practically got off on the way his mere presence
      debilitated me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So <em class="calibre8">you</em> broke the bond?" Lily questioned warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sniffled a little as he took a deep breath and stared at
      his feet. "I didn't break the bond." His voice was just over a
      whisper. "I… I used it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily blinked in surprise. "You used it? What could you have used
      it… oh." Lily looked at Harry frightfully. "Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned back, his eyes shining as he stared up at the
      ceiling, unable to even look at Lily. "I destroyed my mother's soul
      so that I could destroy Voldemort's." Harry let out a shuddering
      breath. "I would've given my own in a second. I would've given
      almost anyone else's. But it doesn't work that way. He used my
      blood. Blood my mother was bonded to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily honestly wasn't sure how she felt about Harry's actions but
      she could tell when he needed a hug more than she needed to make up
      her mind. She quickly moved across the room and held him tightly.
      "You know she never would have blamed you, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well, I made sure she never could."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily finally realized just why Harry was so vehement in his
      insistence that she wasn't his mother. His mother sacrificed
      herself to save him and he sacrificed her to save everyone else.
      Pretending that Lily was his mother dishonored her memory and also
      made Harry vulnerable again. "I think it's safe to say I know how
      she would feel better than anyone else. And she would have been so
      proud of you, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hugged him tighter, urging him to believe her. "She would
      have been proud of your strength. So proud," Lily said unable to
      hold back her own tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't even care that his allergies were making water
      stream from his eyes. "I like to think so," Harry agreed, feeling
      like the load on his shoulders was getting just a little
      lighter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She would be," Lily said again. "She would be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, I get it," Harry said, hugging Lily back. "And I think
      I've figured out which side of the family my overdramatic streak
      comes from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily snorted in between her sniffles. "I'm not your mother,
      Harry. We both know that. But I just want you to know, that if you
      want to call me Mum, no one would blame you, least of all her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry patted Lily gently on the back. "Let's not go crazy just
      yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily groaned and squeezed Harry one last time as she pulled
      away. "Why do you have to be like that? We were having a moment
      there. We were connecting. Kind of like long lost mother-son but
      not really. And you ruined it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped back and pointed a finger. "You were trying to
      guilt me into it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily had the decency to blush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unbelievable," Harry said with a shake of his head. "I'm
      opening up to you. I'm vulnerable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily arched an eyebrow as she hooked an arm around Harry's elbow
      and proceeded to escort him back to the hospital wing. "And just
      how far do you think your apple's fallen from this tree?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mouth twitched in agreement. "True enough. I sometimes
      make Sirius feel guilty for not getting me Christmas presents when
      he was in Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," Lily said looking at Harry appraisingly. "That's
      low."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahem," Harry mockingly cleared his throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was entirely different," Lily said attempting to end the
      discussion. "So you grew up with Petunia?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was that as bad as I'm afraid it was?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It wasn't awful." Harry shrugged. "Roof over my head, secret
      blood protection I didn't know about, unfair split of household
      chores, enough second hand clothes and food to get by. The way I
      see it, it would've been about the same at an orphanage, only
      without the secret blood protection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily frowned and offered, "If you want we could go curse my
      sister sometime."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry bit back a snort. "I think I'd like that… Mum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily jerked her head to look at Harry in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry broke into a grin. "I'm just fucking with you, Lily."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cruel, callous bastard," Lily calmly said. "Just remember you
      got that from my side of the family too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry kept an eye on the devious woman walking next to him. "You
      know you can't tell anyone any of this, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily kept pace with Harry and just stayed quiet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll snap," Harry warned. "I'm not kidding. I'll go dark. I'll
      kill everybody. I'm damn good at it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily just patted Harry gently on the arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please? Lily?" Harry begged. "Mum?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They arrived back at the hospital wing and stopped at the door.
      Lily leaned forward onto the tips of her toes and kissed Harry
      gently on his cheek. "Just because I'm not your mother, Harry,
      doesn't mean you can stop me from acting like it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled back at Lily, figuring if nothing else, he could
      spend time with her under the guide of apprenticing in emotional
      manipulation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They opened the door and walked in, finding the hospital wing
      lively with conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Harry," Sirius beckoned. "Who else knows about us? I know
      there's Gin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gin Weasley?" Lily asked curiously. "She knows about you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "She's under oath not to say anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily chuckled. "She told me she thought you were a woman in
      disguise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She <em class="calibre8">what</em>?" Harry said in a higher voice than
      planned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A ghost popped into existence right next to Harry. "I told you
      that bitch was crazy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh boy," Harry grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy couldn't help himself. "Who is the hottie?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear god," Harry complained to no one in particular.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello," the ghostly Ginny said with a flirtatious wave. "You
      must be James, junior."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the ghost and his almost little brother were both
      smiling shyly. He resisted the urge to bang his head against the
      wall. "Everyone who's been gaping at me stupidly throughout the day
      and/or is still harboring doubts, this is the Ginny Weasley of our
      old world. She died. And she haunts me. Ginny, this is
      everyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily saw the tired look of resignation on Harry's face and
      started to laugh at the absurdity of it all. "I'm sorry," Lily said
      in between her giggling. "It's nice to meet you, Ginny." She just
      laughed louder, intermittently pointing at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know Ginny is Harry's soul mate," Sirius helpfully
      supplied, much to the amusement of Lily. "And how does Lily get
      Harry so easily? It usually takes people time before they realize
      Harry exists to entertain us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's not my soul mate," Harry insisted in a manner eerily
      similar to his claims that Lily wasn't his mother. He turned to his
      traitorous godfather. "And you're about a half step away from a
      midget detention, buddy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny floated over next to the highly amused Lily. "Harry's
      still not sure how to accept my love, Mum. You don't mind if I call
      you Mum, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all," Lily said, her wide grin shining. "I think you and
      I will get along famously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny, go," Harry pleaded as he was metaphysically pushing her
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny could tell she was about to disappear and shook her finger
      at Harry. "I told you that bitch was crazy," she reiterated just
      before disappearing with a pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wow," Jimmy said with a grin. "I mean… wow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over at Sirius. "We really need to get to work on
      the rest of the preparations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James shook his head and stepped forward. "Not yet. We need to
      talk." James Potter, family man, disappeared and was replaced with
      James Potter, Assistant Director of the DMLE. He strode out the
      door, confidently expecting the Lord Blacks to follow him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry exchanged a few uneasy looks as they were led
      into an empty classroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James sealed the door shut behind them and sent out several
      auror-level security spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over at Sirius, and they reached an unspoken
      agreement to wait on James.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James was standing uncomfortably, occasionally pacing and
      stopping. He looked up at them and began, "I'm in something of a
      quandary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can we help?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," James asserted. "You can. Let me explain my quandary.
      Hypothetically, let's say I'm investigating some robberies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius stood there, not responding in the
      slightest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And hypothetically, I made a huge break in the case. But the
      problem is I only caught the lead, because I observed a man's
      surprisingly competent actions as he was saving my life and
      rescuing me from torture."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's quite a quandary," Harry said while Sirius was fidgeting
      and swatting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oww," Sirius as he buckled away from a sharp poke in the side.
      "Stop it, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is," James agreed. "And it's even more complicated by the
      relationship between myself and my… leads."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let up on his invisible assault of Sirius and replied. "So
      how can we help you with your quandary?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hypothetically," James carefully pondered, "my job would be
      easier if there weren't any new cases to investigate. No further
      clues to follow up on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was swatting Sirius' hands, as he tried to poke Harry
      back. "You know, it's entirely possible the target of your
      hypothetical investigation has already retired."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" James said breaking from his cautious and careful
      wording.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No more new cases at all?" James slowly inquired. "Not even a
      little one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius exchanged smiles and looked at James.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hypothetically," Sirius jumped in. "Is there any particular
      place you regret not investigating?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James knew getting captured and tortured earlier left him
      feeling more vindictive than usual but didn't let that stop him.
      "Thing is," James explained. "These cases, they've been targeting
      Death Eaters. And I arrested this guy named Travers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peter or Michael?" Harry questioned. He saw James looked
      surprised. "Both are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant Peter," James answered. "Peter's twice managed to buy
      his freedom with an <em class="calibre8">Imperius</em> defense, a couple names, and
      carefully placed donations. If ever there were a Death Eater who
      should be separated from his money, it'd be Peter. I didn't know
      about Michael."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And this will help you with your quandary?" Sirius
      clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," James said, not wanting them to think he was blackmailing
      them. "My quandary's been resolved. This would just make me
      happy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Retirements can be flexible," Harry replied before looking at
      the older man curiously. "What gave it away?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James smiled and utilized the fine art of the back-handed
      compliment. "The least likely trait you'd expect from Sirius Black:
      he was smarter than he acted in public."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snickered at Sirius' conflicted feelings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James added, "He also managed to break into Malfoy Manor with a
      bit too much ease. He knew to avoid magic on Lucius, he wore
      specially charmed boots, a chameleon cloak, and carried illusory
      pins in his pocket."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head sadly at his godfather. "I knew you'd blow
      this for us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Says you," Sirius retorted hotly. "Mr. '<em class="calibre8">look at me, I'm
      Harry Potter</em>.' Oops."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least my way, we were able to control the situation," Harry
      said, clearly not remembering the last hour very well. "Your way we
      wouldn't have ever even known you'd blown it for us. And who knows
      what would've happened then. I probably saved our asses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius listened to Harry's rationalization with a smile. "A
      thousand galleons says you don't believe that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pouted quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James took down his privacy charms and led them back towards the
      hospital wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was groggy," Harry argued the earlier point. "You should have
      warned me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Didn't you see? I was flashing you the 'hey, Harry, don't
      forget we're in an alternate universe' sign."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James watched the two banter and bicker, and felt pangs of
      jealousy. He wished he'd had this rapport with Harry, but felt
      grateful that Harry at least had Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They arrived back to find Tonks and Jimmy regaling the others
      with stories of Harry's adventures at Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just remembered," James said turning to Sirius. "I've got a
      wand you could use."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stiffened and looked at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was the other Sirius Black's. Driftwood, twelve inches, I
      think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds, sounds about right," Sirius stumbled through the
      words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully stated, "In the interests of full disclosure, I
      should mention we kind of… already… got that wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You what?" the auror side of James asked dangerously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're sorry," Sirius yelped. "But it's my wand. And it was just
      sitting there in your safe. And you were about to give it to me
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James' stern face softened to a smirk. "I know." He turned and
      asked the others, "Where'd Albus go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just stared at James' back perplexed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry elbowed his godfather. "Padfoot? You just got skunked by
      bizarro Prongs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am going to break that little man," Sirius declared as Albus
      came up behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know the muggles have a pill for that now," Albus commented
      as he brushed past. He lifted his pensieve into the air. "Found
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's going on?" Harry asked as they joined the larger
      group.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seeing as you need to work on your preparations for the
      auction, I thought perhaps you could leave behind a number of
      memories, so that we all may get to know you better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Sirius worriedly before looking at all the
      others in the room. "That's a surprisingly good idea. How'd one of
      you come up with that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily, James, and Albus all began to defend themselves, but a
      voice from the matron's office could be heard clearly. "It was my
      idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Got it," Harry said in understanding. He turned to Sirius. "So
      what highlights should we give them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stuff like your birth," Sirius answered, "could easily be the
      exact same here, in which case it's just a painful reminder. I'm
      thinking we should give them both our perspectives of that night at
      the end of your third year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think that's a good idea?" Harry wondered. "I mean you bit
      Ron's leg hard enough to break it. And Moony bitch-slapped you
      right after he transformed into Captain Wolf-and-whine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a great night," Sirius argued thinking of its importance
      to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you were out of it for most of those dementors," Harry
      added. "There were a fuckload there. It was bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even still," Sirius insisted. "Are you going to show when they
      captured you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which one?" Harry said. "If you mean the second time, hell no.
      The first though? Where I was a main ingredient in the Voldemort
      rebirth soup? That one's not too bad. Cedric died and I got
      crucioed a few times, but it was alright."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James saw the other Potters were as horrified as he was. "What
      the-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fuck," Sarah finished for her father.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smiled brightly as they all got a glimpse of Harry's
      crap-ass life. "Are you going to show them the basilisk?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned at the looks on the Potters' faces. "That one
      seems to make people really nervous. I thought instead I'd show the
      end of first year, when I killed my first defense professor. That
      one's always a crowd-pleaser."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter wanted them to stop adding to his anxiety. "Why don't you
      just surprise us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surprise you," Sirius nodded eagerly. "I think we can do
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius took the pensieve over to a corner and
      proceeded to fill it with several memories, many of them triggered
      to play in a set order. It took them twenty minutes, but they had
      deposited several hours' worth of memories to peruse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You asked for a surprise, so the first few memories are queued
      up in order," Harry explained handing Peter the pensieve. "After
      that it's pick and choose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right away, Jimmy, Sarah, Tonks, Peter, James, and Lily lined up
      around each other and plunged into the memories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus held back as he watched Harry and Sirius. "You're going to
      be gone before they even come out, aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, slightly elated to have dodged the goodbye bullet.
      "We gotta do this thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh god. Oh god. Oh God." Tonks frightened shouts startled
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He saw she was still in the pensieve. "Can people talk from
      inside a memory?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In cases of extreme emotion, yes, but it is rare," Albus
      explained with a nod. He paused in reflection. "Just what memory
      did you show them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smiled innocently. "Well, it starts with Tonks
      pregnant…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Albus said intrigued. "Who's the lucky man?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his finger negatively. "We don't want to ruin the
      surprise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Five loud shouts of outrage and shock came from the group at the
      pensieve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus stumbled momentarily and began to look at the pensieve and
      memories contained warily. "I'm not going to like this, am I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There may be a few special highlight reels," Harry meekly
      admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We looped your 'I trust Severus Snape with my life' with
      Snape's 'Avada Kedavra' like twenty, thirty times in a row," Sirius
      explained. "And there's even a 'Sirius, we both know it's more
      important that he be alive than happy.' That one really got my
      goat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear," Albus mumbled, wondering how he'd not seen this
      coming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," Harry said motioning with his head. "We've got a lot
      of work to do tonight. Albus, perhaps we'll see you tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will be there," Albus assured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius walked out of Hogwarts and down to the edge of
      the wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You sure you're up for this?" Sirius asked. "We can postpone.
      It's been a long day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Naw, I'm ready. I'm juiced. These wards
      are going to take some work, but I've built up a lot of nervous
      energy just waiting for an outlet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I want to find out who this fucker is."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Harry patiently sat cross-legged on the floor of the small
      converted chapel within a clear cylindrical tube. The top was
      smoothly curved and it stretched all the way into the floor below,
      giving the tube an appearance that made Sirius giggle. He claimed
      it was the irony of the similarity to the After Dark Mark, but
      Harry wasn't convinced.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Floating behind Harry, at about eye level from his seated
      position, was a large shiny mirror laying parallel to the ground. A
      transparent film was being pulled and stretched from the surface of
      the mirror encompassing a crystalline display case. In the display
      case behind Harry's head were the three lots they were required by
      goblin law to present.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Enlisting the assistance and authority of the goblins to manage
      this auction meant a few extra risks but it was well worth the
      effort of earning the goblin stamp of approval, so all parties
      involved would know there was legitimate bait in the trap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were four rows of seats, four seats on each side of the
      aisle splitting the room in half, and every one of the seats was
      filled. Thirty-two middle-aged and older uninvited wizards and
      witches were all exchanging wary looks and inspecting the seemingly
      innocent meeting room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome, welcome," Sirius cheered emerging from a side door. "I
      see we have quite the packed house here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bloodthrust was the only goblin in the room. The pleasantly
      vicious creature nodded to Harry and Sirius and stood off to the
      side near the door Sirius had used. He was eagerly anticipating the
      results of this auction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It looks like everyone coming is already here, so let's seal
      the doors and see if we can't avoid interruptions." Sirius looked
      over the podium and touched his wand on a button that in actuality
      did nothing other than give the appearance of a control console.
      Heavy duty solid metal doors appeared with the sound of creaking
      and stressing. Suddenly, all the sets of doors slammed shut,
      blocking all the windows, both side doors and the door in the back
      blanketing the room in darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The interior lights gradually brightened, while everyone in the
      seats was getting a little restless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh don't fret," Sirius chided the nervous people. "Make sure
      you hang on to your invitations. You'll need them if we alter the
      customized Fidelius on the fly. Treat them like your safety blanket
      as it appears we may have a few uninvited guests."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"First things first," Sirius continued. "We certainly want to
      ensure the safety of all of our properly invited guests, and there
      were many protestations that it would be rude and way too easy on
      us to make you surrender your wands. So we found a middle ground.
      Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned his hands flat onto the stone floor and pushed down
      hard, feeding extra power into the wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With only a whoosh sound for warning, every guest's seat was
      surrounded with a clear cylindrical tube very similar to Harry's.
      Shouts of outrage and worry began to spread and a few attempts to
      portkey away failed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some of the people were testing the strength and knocking on the
      inside walls and top of their tubes, surprised to find it made no
      sound, but they could hear just fine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've got crashers," Harry warned Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Sirius explained to his literally captive audience.
      "It appears some people are intent on getting in the way of this
      auction. Let's hear their grievances and see if we can't resolve
      this peacefully." Another faked motion of touching his wand to the
      podium and the front door slid open, revealing two dozen masked
      Death Eaters. "Is there a problem, gentlemen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Death Eaters stormed into the room shouting war cries and
      thinking they'd overcome the wards. Many had stopped to look around
      the room curiously. Other than one goblin and Sirius, all the
      others were sitting down looking like a giant upside down rack of
      test tubes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man in the lead hesitated for only a moment before shouting
      "Die!" and launching a devastating blasting curse straight at Harry
      in his tube.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't even blink as the bluish-purple spell zipped
      towards him. The magic slowed to a crawl as it neared the
      reflective glass and could only slide across the curved surface of
      the giant tube. The spell completed its circuit of the tube,
      picking up speed at the end, and rocketed off right back at the
      surprised caster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The force of the spell had been magnified and the Death Eater's
      body was like a leaf in front of a cannon. The man was blown clear
      out of the building leaving only a pair of smoking boots behind.
      The thick metal doors slammed closed, crushing many thoughts of
      escape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is so freaking cool," Harry commented from inside his
      tube. "It's like I could feel the magic in here. It tickles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The more knowledgeable uninvited guests swore upon realization
      of the protective measures the Lord Blacks had taken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other Death Eaters had heard more than a few rumors about
      what happened yesterday, and it was no secret that a lot of their
      mates did not return from their missions. They had a fair idea of
      their Lord's expectations for success.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They watched the mission commander get roasted by a calmly
      seated Lord Black who was clearly more enamored to feel a tickling
      than he was bothered by the violent death. They spotted their
      inside men all looked nervous as hell and were making no motions to
      assist them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next Death Eater in line glanced over his shoulder before
      asking uncertainly, "Die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's tube flickered and flashed with magic as he narrowed his
      eyes at the masked men. He sensed their hesitancy and calmly
      asserted, "I will break you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oops!" the lead Death Eater said tossing his wand to the
      ground. "You got me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Coward!" a voice in the back of the group shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several more wands clattered to the ground and voices emerged.
      "Oops."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aww shucks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clumsy me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Curses, foiled again!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They all turned to the area from which the 'coward' exclamation
      had come. The lone Death Eater still holding his wand tossed it
      backwards over his shoulder. "Damn peer pressure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Smart move," Sirius commented as he walked over to a glistening
      anchor stone on the ground. His swished his wand over an edge of
      the stone and it rotated slightly. A purple beam of magic bled out
      the stone and connected with another glistening shaped rock. The
      line of magic streamed between the stones as they rose from the
      floor and stopped at the ceiling. Left in purple magic's wake was a
      solid black nothingness. "Why don't you guys walk on through there
      so that we can get on with our auction?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The freshly wandless Death Eaters all looked at the mysterious
      darkness and then back towards the Lord Blacks. "We'll just stand,
      if that's okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared down the lead man until he swallowed the lump in
      his throat. He turned towards the other Death Eaters and nodded,
      "Excuse me, gentlemen." He calmly walked straight into the black
      wall and disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can go," Sirius nodded towards the wall, while keeping his
      wand ready. "Or we can make you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Works for me," was the response as the lemmings began to follow
      each other into the black wall. A couple of them hesitated, caught
      Harry's eye, and then changed their minds, jumping to the front of
      the line leading towards the unknown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good luck, Uncle Andre."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The last was directed to Andre Romanov, who was suddenly
      fidgeting inside his giant test tube, unconsciously rubbing the
      tattoo he was really beginning to regret.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have you done to them?" Albus inquired from within his own
      transparent penis-shaped prison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing yet," Harry explained. He still hadn't stood up or made
      any ambulatory movement. "Why don't we give the Ministry workers
      here on undercover missions something to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius watched the last of the Death Eaters disappear, and saw
      on the quickie map he'd charmed that all twenty-three of them were
      accounted for and not moving. "That sounds excellent. Now I can see
      some of you have recognized our little protections around here and
      for those of you that haven't feel free to interpret your
      neighbor's look of fear and uncertainty as I explain this. We are
      on a Black property and here, for the next few hours, we've enacted
      some living wards. Only those genuinely invited are exempt from the
      negative effects of the wards, and most of those effects are
      currently being restrained by our unconventional use of a sentient
      anchor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see the looks of doubt from those of you with only a passing
      familiarity with the law, but living wards are only illegal if
      they're anchored to a property. Anchoring them to a person is a
      perfectly acceptable alternative, since then the wards do not
      develop their own personality or become uncontrollably dangerous.
      Now that we're clear on that point, let's just see who the Ministry
      chose to invite without our consent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again Harry placed his palms flat on the ground and pushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slowly, most of the seats, clear arched tube, stone floor, and
      all, lowered about a meter into the ground. Ten of the tubes
      remained firmly in place. The guests now seated with just their
      heads above the floor, all looked up at the people separated from
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without warning one of the tubes still even with the ground,
      shattered and the wizard within sent three quick spells towards the
      magical display case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius both watched impassively as the case and all
      its contents disappeared with a pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do believe we have an Unspeakable in the house," Sirius
      announced calmly as he saw the portkey on the case had worked
      exactly as planned. He mimicked pushing a button, and a solid wave
      of light magic erupted from the east wall. It slowly passed through
      everyone in the tubes without incident, but forcibly pushed the
      loose Unspeakable into the inky black wall on the other side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smiled at how effective the living wards were. "That was
      rude of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You attacked him!" another of the heavily cloaked individuals
      exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was uninvited and in an ancient Lord's home. I think it's
      safe to say the law is on our side in this one. Not to mention we
      now have a legitimate threat to our property from which we must
      protect." Sirius explained as he walked to the floating mirror and
      cast a spell at it. The surface of the mirror rippled like liquid
      and the crystalline display case floated up and out of the mirror.
      The same slight veil of magic covered it as before. "Now how many
      of the rest of you are aurors on the clock?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One hand went up, subtly glancing towards all the others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "The least you could have remembered is
      that you always work in pairs. Now, I should point out, aurors on
      the clock get to walk out the door and not pushed into the
      wall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Six hands went up among the remaining nine tubes at normal
      height. Twenty-two tubes were still submerged, guests stuck to
      their seats, with barely their head above ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Sirius cheered. "Because everyone going through
      that wall is getting splashed with a draught of living death and
      encased in solid rock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The six tubes all shattered at once and the aurors immediately
      took the opportunity to rise from their seats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You all still have your so-called invitations?" Sirius
      reminded, once he was sure they weren't going to attack him. "Read
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The aurors discovered another Fidelius secret that said simply,
      <em class="calibre8">The shed door is around back</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as they were done reading, the invitations burnt
      themselves until even the ash was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Help yourself to anyone out there," Sirius said as the front
      doors spun sideways one turn and the metal doors slid up and down
      rather than side to side. "The Death Eaters, the highly irritated
      Unspeakable, and any of the rest of these dangerous trespassers we
      send through the wall. Bit of advice? If I were you, I'd check
      their arms for tattoos <em class="calibre8">before</em> administering the
      antidote."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a tinkling sound of glass-breaking and suddenly a wave
      of force swept through the room. Harry and Sirius were unaffected,
      but everyone else in the room felt like they were being squeezed
      and compressed, tighter and tighter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you are good," Harry said looking towards the
      would-be-thief fading into view frozen in place. The room darkened
      and one of the three remaining tubes at normal height lost an
      illusory field and revealed a jagged hole and empty tube.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius walked over to the completely immobile wizard whose face
      was reddening and peered in the display case. "He got through the
      first wave but missed the muted collapsing." Sirius walked back
      over and tapped his wand to the podium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm impressed," Harry said nodding with respect to the man he
      expected was another Unspeakable. A ripple of white magic crossed
      the room, pushing the frozen wizard into the black wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the white curtain of magic passed through the people, they
      felt the pressure of their tubes lessen and their bodies relax.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the other two Ministry workers, measuring their
      worth. The two tubes shattered allowing them to stand from their
      seats.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can go out that door," Harry nodded towards the aurors who
      were leaving. "Or that one," he said with a motion towards the
      black wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man and the woman hurried out the front door and it sealed
      shut behind them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius began again. "Now I know some of you may wonder why you
      work for the Ministry but are still here. The answer to that I'm
      afraid lies in the tattoo on your arm." He made a show of tapping
      his wand three times on the podium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirteen more tubes began to grow up from the ground leaving
      nine people neck deep staring at the Death Eaters carted up to
      their fate. Three of the men began banging and punching the walls
      of their tubes. Spells reflected right back on them. One older
      woman was begging for sympathy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, we don't care," Sirius said, as another white wave of
      magic swept from the east wall. "Tell it to the aurors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, tubes and all were pushed across the room, breaking
      against the black wall and sending all the people in them away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then there were nine," Sirius pushed a button and then all
      the rest of the people still seated partly underground were raised
      back up to the proper height.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two tubes shattered as Harry greeted, "Albus, PJ. I don't recall
      your names on the guest list but I believe you may be able to help
      us out here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two older men moved over to stand next to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A portly gentlemen looked at the other six people sitting by him
      before asking, "Out of curiosity, just <em class="calibre8">who</em> was on the
      guest list?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just one name," Harry happily informed them nodding his head
      towards the goblin. "Bloodthrust."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The goblin standing off to the side smiled grotesquely looking
      much like his picture.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now I want to know," Harry asked, still seated on the floor
      facing towards them, "just who would turn themselves into uninvited
      trespassers of an Ancient and Noble Lord's home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was some noticeable shifting from the people realizing
      what they'd managed to walk into.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus? PJ?" Harry asked. "Do either of you recognize these
      people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"David Monroe," Albus said nodding to one of the two gentlemen
      in the back left row.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">David inclined his head. "It's been a while, Albus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Master Monroe," Albus explained, "is a world renowned mental
      healer and he's been in charge of Frank Longbottom's care. I do not
      know why he'd be interested in this auction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's Lord Charles Marbury," Peter Potter said pointing to a
      graying man with a shiny nose. "He's an alcoholic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Peter curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter shrugged. "I don't know what kind of details will help
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius called out in warning. He was looking through a
      charmed pair of omnioculars. "Harry, you might want to take a look
      at this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius walked over towards Harry and reached right through
      Harry's tube, handing him the omnioculars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry canceled the charm on his eyes and looked through the
      omnioculars. His first thought was to wonder why the hell Sirius
      had turned on the clothes-less feature in a room of old men. His
      next thoughts were all about the man sitting next to David Monroe
      with a very familiar tattoo on his arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Harry said, handing the omnioculars back to Sirius. He
      cast another magical sight spell on his eyes and recognized a line
      of magic around the Death Eater's neck. Both the man and David
      Monroe next to him were wearing necklaces that fooled magical
      sight. It was only because Harry had used the same thing when he
      traded for Dobby that he recognized the slight but unique
      effect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced over making sure Sirius was still alert and ready.
      He cocked his head staring at the two men. "How the hell did you
      manage to sneak a Dark Mark through there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">David Monroe stood up calmly from his seat and walked straight
      through the tube surrounding him. "I'm afraid that was my
      doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man with the Dark Mark also left his tube and moved to stand
      protectively at David Monroe's back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus stiffened and drew his wand while Peter took a step away
      from everyone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the remaining tubes shattered and the front doors opened.
      Harry just stared at David Monroe waiting for him to move. "I must
      humbly ask that everyone not invited to please leave now while I'm
      giving you a choice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus watched the others hurry out the front door and leaned
      over, "You don't mean me, do you, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw David Monroe give a slight shake of his head and
      answered, "I'll catch up with you later, Albus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned. "I'm afraid I'm going to-" He stopped suddenly as
      a wave of white magic crested out from the right wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Proving just how spry he still was, Albus galloped three brisk
      steps and dove headfirst out the front door, rather than allow the
      wave to push him through the black wall. The doors sealed shut
      behind him and Albus was stuck outside looking in. "Bugger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter just laughed at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inside the building remained only the two Lord Blacks, two
      necklace-charmed protected identities, and one bored looking
      goblin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to the goblin. "I don't mean to be rude,
      Bloodthrust, but would you-?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bah," Bloodthrust grumbled as he turned to stalk out the front
      door. "I expected more from you, wizard. One measly death?
      Bah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as Bloodthrust was gone, two more tubes appeared boxing
      in the two unknown men.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who are you?" Harry said to the one with the Dark Mark while
      keeping an eye on the other. "I recognize the magic of your
      necklaces. I know those aren't your true faces. So I'm asking you,
      who are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man with the Dark Mark was about to remove his necklace when
      the glass tube around David Monroe shattered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alan, wait," the supposed healer said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry immediately realized he was right in that it wasn't
      coincidence that Alan Weston had been in possession of a
      horcrux.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll be easier if I tell you my story," David Monroe
      explained, drawing Harry and Sirius' attention his way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can start by removing that necklace," Harry said wanting to
      see this guy's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">David Monroe frowned. "I think it may be easier-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Humor me," Harry urged strongly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," David Monroe agreed. He tilted his head down and
      pulled the charmed-necklace over the top of his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dark, messy hair was the first thing Harry could see. As the man
      lifted the necklace down his face, brilliant green eyes were
      staring back at Harry. The man's complexion got lighter and
      clearer. He was younger than David Monroe looked but it wasn't
      until the effect reached the superior smirk on his face that Harry
      recognized him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's brain processed it but his gearshift was stuck in
      neutral. He just stood there staring in shock. There were a million
      different things running through his mind. Each sudden insight led
      to another moment of clarity as another mystery unraveled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fuck," Harry swore in realization. "Neville's really gone,
      isn't he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man's pupils dilating were the only sign of surprise he
      showed. He had been startled at how quickly Harry reached that
      conclusion. "That's one way to put it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How else would you put it?" Harry snapped angrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man nearly looked humble. "Sometimes I prefer to think he
      lives on through me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" Sirius said jumped in, staring at the man in confusion.
      "Did Voldemort have a kid and never tell anyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry replied, watching the man's every move. "But he did
      have a diary."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
