<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER THIRTY, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s31" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 30</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <hr class="calibre11"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shiny?" Tom repeated. "I show you one of the most complicated
      prisons ever created and your first impression is shiny?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it is," Harry argued. "I just hope the bindings holding
      him in place are as good as the polishing charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's not going anywhere," Tom said with confidence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So was it a conscious choice to pass on concrete, steel bars,
      and the usual jailhouse classics in favor of the aquarium meets
      lava lamp art nouveau style?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked at his creation with a frown. "It's a prison for the
      unbound spirit not a physical manifestation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not contending the purpose," Harry agreed. "I'm just saying
      it looks like someone engorged an ugly vase your mother-in-law gave
      you. The kind of thing you have no choice but to keep on the mantle
      in case she drops by unexpectedly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom walked around the grandfather clock sized contraption. The
      top foot was a cylindrical copper seal trimmed in brass. It capped
      a two foot stretch of transparent material and sat on a copper base
      so that the aquarium aspects were at eye level. On two opposites
      sides ran a series of brass latches and locks. "I didn't consider
      aesthetics much when designing it, but you know if you really
      wanted we could-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry chided. "We're not putting Voldemort on display
      anywhere. As amusing as it might be, I try not to tempt fate if I
      can help it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast a charm over his eyes and was examining the spell
      work he recognized in the prison. A fingernail sized black knob
      inside a small brown bubble from within the opaque green tube was
      swirling with a sickly grey magic. "So what happened to the trap
      you told me about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom could tell Harry was trying to figure out the prison and
      answered, "Voldemort was feeling vulnerable after the loss of more
      than half his Death Eaters in only two days, nice job on that by
      the way. He needed some leverage and planned to kidnap among
      others, the Minister's daughter, a young woman who just happens to
      be a patient of mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A patient of yours?" Harry repeated. "How'd you manage to get
      the Minister's daughter as a patient?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smirked in a manner eerily reminiscent of the teenage diary
      Harry knew. "I am one of the foremost experts on healing the mind.
      My services are highly sought after."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's worrisome."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I should remind you that while I am not Voldemort, nor
      am I a Dark Lord, I am still Tom Riddle. And I've been exploring
      the boundaries of magic in relative secrecy for the last two
      decades."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suppressed a shiver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It started with Frank but I saw a genuine opportunity to gain
      allies and favors. Ones I intend to make full use of when the
      proper time comes. The Minister's daughter is not my patient by
      coincidence. It's worth noting that I've spent significant time
      inside the minds of eight different presidents, twelve prime
      ministers, and four kings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want to know," Harry shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I heard the Minister's daughter was a target, I moved her
      appointment up, passed the details on, and altered the plan to fit.
      Voldemort brought only four other Death Eaters with him, and three
      of them I'd already compromised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Compromised?" Harry asked warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was willing to explain this because he knew the charm of
      brotherhood would prevent Harry from telling anyone. "You know he's
      got compulsion charms, loyalty charms, and in some cases outright
      control charms running through the Dark Mark's connection to their
      soul?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he only ever checked that the charms were still in place
      and were his magic. More than half the Death Eaters, though mostly
      the weaker ones, see me as number one, and him number two. They
      still listen and follow him, unless the moment comes for me to
      belay an impulse and give them a different compulsion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked and showed Tom he wasn't too happy about this
      minor revelation. "You have your own Death Eater army."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom frowned. "It sounds worse when you put it like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remember when you said you weren't following Voldemort's
      path?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like they know about me," Tom argued. "And you know
      it's because I have 'my own Death Eater army' that it'll be so easy
      to capture them and all the others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not going to keep them out of prison or allow them to
      buy their way into your favor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Tom explained. "These people believe they are loyal to
      Voldemort. They don't remember me modifying their soul
      connections."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't particularly care, but was still getting a feel for
      Tom's sincerity. "And you're going to let them hang for the things
      you and he made them do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm not," Tom corrected. "They will be tried as both the
      criminals they are, and the victims of the Dark Lord. Even if by
      some miracle they managed to dismiss all their actions as unwilling
      puppets of the Dark Lord, they still have to confess to whatever
      crime they committed to earn their Dark Mark. I don't know if any
      will ever get released from Azkaban. Frankly, I'm more concerned
      with the Death Eater bandits having a shortage of targets and too
      much free time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Rumor is they hung up their ski masks and have gone legit,"
      Harry admitted with a grin. He pointed towards the impressive
      contraption he'd given up trying to unravel. "So how does this
      thing work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom's face lit up proudly as he explained, "There are three
      separate chambers surrounding the anchor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got up next to the clear aquarium section of the spiritual
      prison. There was a small knob surrounded by what looked like to a
      dark brown murky liquid. That brown bubble was inside a tall green
      tube that was held in place in the center. The rest of the round
      aquarium was filled with clear blue water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The inner chamber that looks brown?" Tom explained. "That's
      actually a bright red liquid crystal of my own design. It prevents
      every possible sensory input, including magic. The next chamber of
      green liquid surrounding that is more crystal. The green is
      actually the arithmantic opposite of the red. And they are both
      poisonous to body and soul. So if anyone managed to get through
      green would be completely vulnerable to the red, and vice
      versa."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was looking closer at the anchor in the middle of the
      magical prison. "And the blue liquid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Salt water," Tom answered happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Salt water?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm opposed to conjugal visits but there are times we may wish
      to…" Tom's voice trailed off as he drew his wand. "Allow me to
      demonstrate." He cast a spell into the smooth block of obsidian at
      the base of the front where the aquarium met the copper base.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The clear tube protecting the green liquid crystal split
      vertically and unfolded open. The green fluid spilled out into the
      water slowly dissolving into a greenish tinted cloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing?" Harry asked warily, feeling the hairs on
      the back of his neck rise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax," Tom quickly calmed and sent magic into the charm of
      brotherhood he shared with Harry. He tapped his wand on the
      obsidian and the water and green liquid began to swirl wildly in a
      tornado of fluid. Slowly the green liquid crystal separated from
      the water at the outer reaches of the sealed tube. Thick solid
      beads of green liquid crystal were sucked away leaving the clear
      blue water and a reddish table tennis sized ball remaining.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom cast another spell and the spherical bubble surrounding the
      red fluid slid back into itself, allowing the other liquid crystal
      to disperse in the water. Another whispered spell sent the mixture
      swirling in a whirlpool until the red liquid crystal separated and
      was also sucked away. "Have to remove the poisons or they die too
      quick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked curiously as Tom cast another spell into the
      obsidian. A jellyfish no more than three inches around and eight
      long appeared lazily contracting in place inside the salt
      water.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watch it," Tom pointed when Harry turned to look at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The jellyfish which had been calmly waving on the slightest
      currents suddenly froze up and darkened from a whitish pink to
      nearly grey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be on the safe side we don't want to do this with any
      creatures or weak-willed others around," Tom said as he slid two
      thin vertical panels of glass straight through the middle of the
      aquarium. He twisted a few latches and tightened a few flaps before
      suddenly swinging the prison open. The front half of the bisected
      cylinder was just water, but the back half housed the anchor and
      the possessed jellyfish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And now through this, we can use legilimency on the
      jellyfish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Tom look towards the jellyfish and silently aim his
      wand. Tom winced a little and explained, "It stings a little.
      Voldemort's not really aware enough for any higher thought
      processes. He's definitely angry and feels threatened, but his
      memories are easily viewed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom snapped his legilimency probe free and turned to Harry.
      "Anything you wanted to know about Voldemort?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was watching the barely moving jellyfish and recognized a
      slippery slope to nowhere good. He thought it over though and
      decided he should familiarize himself with the sensation.
      "<em class="calibre8">Legilimens</em>," Harry said softly, aiming towards what he
      hoped was the brain of the jellyfish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt the cold sting in his head and left Voldemort's mind
      quickly. "Huh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you see?" Tom asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Briefs," Harry answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom glanced away from the jellyfish and to Harry. "You have
      total access to the innermost recesses of one of the darkest minds
      in centuries and you sought out…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boxers or briefs," Harry nodded. "And I'm not the least bit
      surprised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't hold back his chuckle. "I should have expected
      something like that." He swung the two halves of the round aquarium
      into their closed position and latched the prison back
      together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is that?" Harry said pointing towards the two panels of
      glass Tom was leaning against the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These are just glass, charmed unbreakable. They have to let
      magic in and out for legilimency to work," Tom explained. He
      pointed to the aquarium. "All three chambers are dwarven wrought
      crystal. A diamond blade would chip before scratching it and every
      form of magic I've found just bounces off it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was impressed. He saw the jellyfish shake before it
      twisted around suddenly and floated lifelessly to collide with the
      aquarium wall. "Dead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Tom said. "They only last a few minutes. Now to get
      Voldemort back into his cell." He cast another spell into the
      obsidian and the little knoblike anchor flared bright white,
      glowing with life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahh," Harry hissed, grabbing at his most famous scar. "What the
      hell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had already sealed the first bubble-shaped chamber and
      filled it with the red liquid crystal as the button sized anchor
      darkened to its grey murky state. He turned to Harry warily, "Are
      you alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the fuck is that anchoring him?" Harry snapped, relieved
      to see his scar hadn't split open. It merely had startled him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is one of those things that sounds a lot worse than it
      really is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Riddlebottom," Harry warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom admitted sheepishly, "It's the skull of an unborn human
      fetus at about nine weeks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically nine seconds after nine minutes after nine hours
      after nine weeks since conception, but that's just kind of a
      mouthful and not really relevant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was it doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a cage for unbound souls," Tom explained. "If the two
      liquid crystals ever combine it creates a fire on the level of
      Fiendfyre, but it also activates the soul cage to ensnare and hold.
      When it's activated, I feel it twitter because of what I am, but I
      didn't think I'd need to warn you. Did you perhaps unsuccessfully
      dabble in some soul magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed, feeling the headache leaving as quickly as it
      came. "Nope. The scar used to be a link between my Voldemort and
      me. It's just been a while and feeling anything through it is
      usually a bad sign."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd imagine so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Soul magic scans have always gone a bit nutty on it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assure you I had no idea," Tom diplomatically offered. "I
      wasn't trying to test you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved him off. "Don't worry about it. But I got to say,
      I'm not big on the idea of you spending a lot of time digging into
      Voldemort's mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither am I," Tom explained. "But I'm not arrogant enough to
      believe he hasn't left a few traps of his own devising behind. And
      having access to his memories could prove infinitely valuable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got a plan," Harry stated firmly while watching Tom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom nodded as he engaged the second chamber and green liquid
      crystal. He vanished the dead jellyfish's body. "You don't know the
      spells to manipulate the chambers and I was thinking I wouldn't
      tell them to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is what the extra anchor stones are for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom nodded at how quickly Harry caught on. "Exactly. You put the
      latches, the doorway, the only way to access the prison under a
      Fidelius or something similar while leaving the rest of it visible.
      This way either of us could easily check the status of the prison,
      but it takes both of us working together to ever open it or attempt
      to communicate with Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Harry said, turning to look at Tom curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why protect it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I think I got that one. I meant why do you keep freely
      sharing your… control with me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom waved his wand and conjured a perfect but simple chair. He
      sat down, expecting this to be a long conversation. "I'm an
      excellent judge of potential, Harry. Even Voldemort was always
      cognizant of the power others held. Who was a threat, who had
      talents, who could be used and how. Admittedly there were a few
      blind spots…" he paused to allow Harry to chuckle. "But overall, he
      could watch someone and in a matter of minutes determine their
      worth with a scary amount of accuracy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you?" Harry said from his own conjured chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was not a modest man. "It takes me less than a minute. And
      do you know what I see when I look at you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several smart-ass remarks came to mind, but Harry was too
      curious to do anything other than shake his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An equal," Tom admitted looking Harry right in the eye.
      "Conveniently, one with very little interest in fame or glory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An equal?" Harry repeated skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have we not both defeated a Voldemort and fulfilled the same
      prophecy? We share brother wands from Dumbledore's phoenix. His
      familiar's blessing for the next leaders of the magical world,
      perhaps. There are too many similarities to call it
      coincidence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was slowly nodding in agreement as he got up. He moved the
      six extra anchor stones slightly. He began to feed power into them
      preparing a Fidelius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps it is still unreached potential," Tom softly joked.
      "Sirius told me that in addition to Black and Slytherin, you're
      well on your way to earning the title of the Lord of Ointment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry muttered. "Hearing that you and he were getting
      chummy just about made my weekend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom knew embarrassment and sarcasm were still the way to Harry's
      heart. "He told me there's even a rumor that the healing community
      may name this newly discovered strain the Seriously Hairy Black
      Bumps."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll give you three guesses on who started that rumor and the
      first two don't count." Harry grumbled remembering several rather
      unpleasant floo calls he'd made from the healer's office. With a
      whispered phrase, he activated and sealed the Fidelius charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oww," Tom said closing his eyes in pain. "Remind me not to be
      looking when you do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry plopped back down into his conjured chair. "No. It doesn't
      feel like enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was rubbing his aching head. "It hurts more than the
      legilimency did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that," Harry said. "You seeing me as an equal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would think the other reasons are obvious," Tom said waving
      towards Voldemort's liquid prison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt the brotherhood charm buzzing gently, hinting towards
      a more complicated answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom took a deep breath and explained, "I'm not going to live
      forever. And when I go, it's not guaranteed that I'll be pulling
      him with me. Someone has to make sure he is gone, and given the
      prophecy, it's possible you're the only person who could even do
      anything about it if he's not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not going to live forever?" Harry questioned. "You're certain
      about that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I plan to change the world and have a legacy that lasts the
      test of time, but I hold no illusions about the fragility of my
      existence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a Slytherin wrapped in Hufflepuff clothing, aren't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll take that as a compliment, Lord Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was watching Tom closely as he stated, "That was your
      sacrifice, wasn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom showed no surprise as he turned to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you've researched the balance. Mortality was your
      sacrifice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom's face betrayed no emotion. "What was yours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered it a moment and shook his head. "Not today.
      Maybe some other time I'll tell you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom inclined his head in understanding, before his eyes lit up.
      "Was coming here to this world, leaving your own behind, your
      cost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled darkly, shaking his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or do you not know yet?" Tom questioned. "My understanding is
      that some costs aren't realized for years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wore a pained smile. "My victory was hollow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom's eyes widened. "Your sacrifice was deemed sufficient?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom couldn't keep the look of sympathy off his face. He watched
      Harry for a few seconds. "My sacrifice was indeed mortality and a
      pledge to fix Voldemort's mistakes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistakes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't take responsibility for his victims, but his original
      goals, the admirable ones, are still worth striving for. And now
      that we know one way <em class="calibre8">not</em> to achieve them, it should be a
      bit easier, don't you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I don't suppose you know your cost yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom tried to hide his smile. "Not today, Harry. Maybe some other
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Harry agreed while taking note of Tom's curious
      response. "Where are we anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if you'd listened to me in the first place, you'd
      recognize this room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're at the Shrieking Shack?" Harry asked in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom nodded. "This cellar's been hidden since my days as a
      student. It's not a Fidelius but a Stavros modification. You were
      keyed in when I apparated us here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You plan to leave Voldemort this close to Hogwarts?" Harry said
      doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be honest, I'd prefer to put him in the Chamber of Secrets,
      but I think we should wait until Dumbledore's tenure as Headmaster
      is over."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just looked at Tom incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, the prison is stronger and causes Voldemort more pain
      based on the volume of magic nearby. Yes a remote cave or the North
      Pole would be harder to stumble across but the liquid crystals
      would weaken over time. And there's nowhere in Europe with ambient
      magic as strong as Hogwarts. I'm open to options, but it needs to
      be near a high concentration of magic, which means it'll need to be
      near wizards and witches. Hogsmeade is the only all wizarding
      village on the island."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Ministry," Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom shrugged. "Not nearly as strong. And while I believe it's
      impossible, if somehow Voldemort got out, he'd run for cover first.
      Not attack students or villagers. The only added danger is if
      someone found out he was still alive and where he was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could someone scry his location?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When we're trying to read his memories, yes," Tom admitted.
      "Behind Stavros wards it'd still take them days and we'll never
      leave him out that long. But as long as he's caged and surrounded
      by the red liquid crystal, nothing and I mean nothing can find him.
      No sensory input at all. No magic can find him. He certainly can't
      see, hear, or even sense us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the Chamber of Secrets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has plenty of experience having safely housed a 'monster' for
      centuries," Tom said with a smile at the supposed mystery. "I'd say
      let's sneak in and put him there now, but Dumbledore's had decades
      of being attuned to Hogwarts. Whenever the next Headmaster takes
      the job, we can slip him down there during the turnover, seal it
      off, and no one will be the wiser."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded getting used to the idea that Tom had a rational
      explanation for everything. "Is the basilisk in the woods behind
      Riddle Manor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom shook his head. "I helped him to the ocean and he went for a
      swim. In a few months he'll probably reach my place in Australia. I
      must admit I'm surprised you haven't pressed me to reveal myself to
      Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think he'd enjoy that?" Harry said unable to stop
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom realized his poor choice of words too late and didn't
      dignify Harry's question with a response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was snickering at the idea of Tom flashing Albus. "I know,
      I know. But truthfully, right now, I don't care much either way.
      Eventually Albus is going to figure you out. He's too smart not to.
      But it might not be a bad idea to let him see you accomplish some
      good things first before approaching him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you trust him," Tom felt the need to defend his
      position. "But ever since the moment he delivered my Hogwarts
      letter, he's looked at me with suspicion and fear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like I said, he's smart." Harry retorted with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He saw the magic I commanded even before I knew what magic was
      and he saw me as a threat to his power," Tom argued. "I could see
      he'd decided I was dark and evil before I'd even learned which end
      of the wand to hold."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to piss on your parade but he wasn't exactly wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom frowned in silent disagreement. "I was one of the younger
      kids in the orphanage and I had discovered a hidden power; I could
      bully the bullies. I could stop them from picking on me. Up until
      the moment Dumbledore met me, I cannot see how any eleven year old
      could have been any different."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And from that he made up his mind on me?" Tom shook his head.
      "It was easier for him to see me as another Grindelwald than
      anything else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, you don't have to sell me," Harry assured. "My Albus
      fucked me over almost as much as my Voldemort did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I think he may have cared too much in my case
      though. So while he made a shitload of mistakes, it was always what
      he believed to be in my best interests or for the so-called greater
      good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom furrowed his brow. "What did he-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry answered before Tom could finish the question. "He placed
      my freshly orphaned baby body on the door step of a family that
      hates magic and hated me for existing. He even admitted he knew I'd
      have a hard life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom just looked at Harry curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "When I feel like blaming someone, it's usually
      him. But the Dumbledore of this world has always treated me as an
      adult, as an equal, and there's no denying the man is brilliant.
      Personally, I think he'll understand and support you, but I also
      think it's worth waiting until you've got some more evidence that
      you're on the side of the angels beyond usurping a Death Eater
      army."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom inconclusively nodded. "You're going to tell him about the
      Slytherin name and some of our plans?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry said. "We're going to need his support on a
      few."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you underestimate us both, Harry. But it would be
      easier with Albus on our side. We can focus our initial agenda on
      areas of common ground."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was looking at Tom curiously. "You know inevitably someone
      else will notice your charmed necklace. The ministry will record
      and scan you. What happens if your true name and face come
      out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smiled proudly. "It was actually Alan who came up with this
      one. But if I'm ever unable to stick that one back in the jar, then
      I shall readily admit to being Tom Riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh-huh," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom put on a mask of a deadly serious scholar. "It was in my
      research on magical applications of mind healing techniques that I
      attempted to separate negative emotions like rage and
      jealousy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry shook his head, seeing where this was going.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I actually separated those pieces of wrong and evil, but in an
      attempt to remove them, they attached themselves to a piece of my
      soul, wrenched it free and formed a separate entity from
      myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom nodded, without any trace of a smile. "This evil twin
      spiraled way beyond my control. He was as powerful as me and
      infinitely more ruthless. I tried to hunt him down. I tried to
      contain him, but people saw his face and his deeds and attributed
      them to me. I had to hide while I worked to defeat this horrible,
      unfortunate, but accidental creation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enter That Fucker," Harry narrated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew I couldn't ever show my face, so I created a new
      identity. A different face and a new name I could use until the
      opportunity to finally end the madness presented itself. I was able
      to destroy Voldemort, but by that time Tom Riddle's legacy had been
      set in stone. It was not an easy decision but I felt I could help
      more people by remaining hidden under the only face and name I
      thought of myself as for the last two decades."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom's look of pained sincerity twisted into a smug victorious
      smile. "Now does that story seem more plausible or does it make
      more sense that I'm just a split piece of the former Dark Lord's
      soul who leeched Neville Longbottom's life before suddenly deciding
      the Dark Lord was a bad guy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was suitably impressed. "And of course if or when it
      breaks you'll also have years of accolades, community service, and
      countless influential people willing to speak of your high moral
      character."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope it never does break," Tom agreed. "But I do like to be
      prepared. Now if you'll excuse me, Alan's going to be getting
      officially released from custody, be declared a hero by the DMLE,
      answer a few questions for reporters, and then make the front page
      for being a close personal friend of mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, Albus is expecting me by now as well." Harry got up and
      vanished his own conjured chair. "If I come up with somewhere
      better for this, are you open to moving it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, if you come up with somewhere better, I'll want to move
      it just as much as you," Tom assured him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know we're going to have to make plans in case either of us
      dies," Harry commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom nodded slowly. "I've actually got a few ideas for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it's a situation a lot like Albus'," Tom explained. "We
      should put it off for a while. At least until we genuinely trust
      each other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought that one over and suspected it to involve soul
      magic. "Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good luck, Harry," Tom said as he apparated away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a breath to ready himself. "I'm only going to be
      indirectly threatening and blackmailing one of the most powerful
      and respected wizards of all time. What could I possibly need luck
      for?" He looked around the room and realized he was talking to
      himself again. He apparated to the edge of Hogwarts wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right away, the magic of Hogwarts was singing to him in a way it
      never had before. He used to feel like Hogwarts was his home away
      from home, but now it felt as natural as an extra layer of skin. He
      only thought about the reaction when his ring finger began to
      tingle happily. He twisted it around canceling its invisibility and
      saw the jewel in the Slytherin family ring was glittering
      wildly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew people said Hogwarts loved and took care of all her
      children. He grinned under the realization that she had a new
      favorite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cast an oculamagi spell over his eyes and looked at the wards
      as he walked. They looked no different, but Harry was certain they
      felt different. He began to theorize that the wards recognized his
      status too. He had barely considered the possibility before his
      ring finger was tingling in response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked both ways before throwing caution into the wind. He
      apparated up to the front steps of the castle with a soft pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't stop the smile splitting his face in half as he
      canceled the oculamagi spell. "We're going to keep this little
      tidbit to ourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When his finger tingled again, he couldn't help but wonder if
      the Hogwarts' wards had understood and agreed. He pressed his hand
      against the outer stone wall, closed his eyes in concentration, and
      thought about what he wanted to see. He opened his eyes and
      couldn't believe his luck. "Sweet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hopped up the stairs and began to walk through the castle
      with an extra skip in his step. He reached the gargoyle guarding
      the headmaster's office and began a staring match with it. A few
      seconds later the gargoyle silently slid out of the way and let
      Harry up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knocked on the door from the outer chamber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" Albus called out. "Come in, come in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is this a bad time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus stacked up the paperwork on his desk and shuffled it into
      one of his drawers. "Not at all. I've been expecting you in fact,
      as I'm sure you remember."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry said as he walked over to Fawkes perch and gave
      the partially sleeping bird a gentle rub on the back of its
      neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I know you can't tell me much, but I was hoping-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually Albus," Harry said, plopping down into the chair
      across from the Headmaster. "I'm not here to talk about David
      Monroe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Albus said in faint shock. "Still waiting on your Order
      member merit badge?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled. "No, the truth is I came here to talk about
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus got up from his seat behind the desk and moved to the
      chair next to Harry's. He turned it to face the younger man on
      equal ground. "Me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, you," Harry said. He hesitated only a second before
      jumping right into it. "Because the thing is, you've been spreading
      yourself too thin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus popped a lemon sherbet into his mouth and was surprisingly
      intrigued. He nodded at Harry, indicating he should continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Between running the Order, fighting a war for the past three
      decades, your duties as Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, Supreme
      Mugwump of the International Confederation, and undoubtedly
      countless more I'm unaware of, you have been only an adequate
      headmaster of Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Adequate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "The students look at you in awe and most of them
      are probably too intimidated to even approach you. I don't doubt
      you put their health and welfare first, but that is first on a long
      list of responsibilities."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was frowning. "I admit the times I've had to leave the
      school and defend innocents from attack, I've had similar worries.
      But with the defeat of Voldemort, I expect my schedule to
      lighten."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lightening is good," Harry agreed. "Lightening is very good. In
      fact I was thinking of helping you out with that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a good thing," Harry meekly argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus warily asked, "What do you want?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are a number of answers to that question," Harry said
      with a mischievous smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Albus tiredly urged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want you to become the greatest headmaster Hogwarts has ever
      had," Harry quickly answered. "I want your complete focus to be on
      the education of students now that fears of imminent attack will
      soon be a relic of the past."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus still wasn't sure what Harry was up to. "It's not that
      simple, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It can be," Harry said. "Anything you convince me is worth
      doing, I can help make happen. You want to introduce some new
      electives, hire more teachers, offer more specialized tuition, host
      weekend demonstrations, bring in more experts-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Albus interrupted. "I don't think you appreciate how
      complicated and limited my budget is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So let's increase it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Board of Governors would never-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here's a thought," Harry interjected. "You want to get rid of
      the board? It would certainly make major changes easier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned in confusion. "What's going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry helped himself to a glass of firewhiskey and left the
      bottle out in case Albus wanted some. "When the Wizengamot formally
      reconvenes in the fall, I will be wearing a declaration patch and
      Lord Black is going to nominate me for Chief Warlock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sat up straighter at the implied threat. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded happily. "Yup. And I'd appreciate it if you
      seconded the nomination. But if you want to settle it in the ring,
      I will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled at the idea. "And do you think you could take
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a fair fight?" Harry shrugged. "I have a few doubts. But I
      don't fight fair, Albus. I cheat and I cheat a lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Albus commented, silently finding himself agreeable to
      Harry's nomination but not willing to admit that aloud just
      yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should mention that Lord Black won't be nominating me as Lord
      Black," Harry said with a grin and a salute of his glass. "He's
      going to nominate me under my new title: Lord Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus wandlessly summoned the bottle of firewhiskey and poured
      himself a glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave Albus time to compose himself, inwardly relishing
      moments like these.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord," Albus had to force the name out, "Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry twisted the ring allowing it to be visible. The ring
      glittered and twinkled in the light. "Hogwarts loves me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Slytherin family ring accepted you," Albus stated, "and
      made you Lord Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't have kittens on me," Harry chided while twisting it back
      into invisibility. "The horcrux is gone. And really, did you think
      I just gave up those other horcruxes for nothing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus goggled at Harry unable to accept the idea of bartering
      pieces of the Dark Lord's soul for one of the most infamous and
      hated wizarding lines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly sipped his glass, waiting for the shock and
      surprise to leave Albus' face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus couldn't decide what question to ask first. "But you were
      a Gryffindor!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ironic, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, this is… this is…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, I know." Harry pointed towards the snoozing artifact on
      the shelf behind him. "But the Sorting Hat told me Slytherin would
      help me on the road to greatness. And you taught me all about
      second chances. Anyways, I'm telling you this now as a courtesy,
      and also so that you'll take me a bit more seriously when I say we
      can dismantle the Board of Governors. I can help get you anything
      you need to reestablish Hogwarts as the finest institute of magical
      learning in the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was silently watching Harry. "This is what you want? No
      offense Harry, but it sounds a little more… altruistic than
      usual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Order's disbanding, the war's over," Harry reminded.
      "You've had a great run Albus, and you've shouldered the hopes and
      dreams of several generations of wizards for an immensely long
      time. But a new world is forming and these metaphorical torches can
      be passed down smoothly… or I can cheat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was finding it oddly comforting to hear Harry's
      willingness to accept responsibility. "And where does David Monroe
      fit into all of this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's at the center of it," Harry said. "When I said he was the
      next Albus Dumbledore, I meant it. I'll tell you now that by next
      spring, he'll have turned his popularity into the Minster of Magic
      position."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Monroe as Minister and you as Chief Warlock?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Scary, huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sighed. "I find most prospects involving you to be scary,
      Harry. And the thought that there's another wizard with an even
      more mysterious past, as much power, and more ambition than you is
      even more worrisome."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For what it's worth," Harry said flaring magic into the charm
      of brotherhood he shared with Albus, "this is the weaker of the two
      charms of brotherhood I'm sustaining."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus responded with an equal push of magic. "I take it you
      trust him more now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got a mixed look on his face. "You know, every day he
      doesn't try to kill me, I trust him a little bit more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, he's a character."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus had already decided to accept Harry's suggestions and was
      looking forward to the weight of the world on others' shoulders.
      "I'm guessing that seeking a more active role in politics was not
      your idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grumbled. "Tell me about it. At first, David wanted me to
      run for Minister. I quickly disabused him of that notion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So most of this is his doing?" Albus questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could tell Albus was fishing but he had planned on
      explaining most of this anyway. "I shit you not. He's got a fifty
      year plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh my," Albus grinned at Harry's reticence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Step one is to cultivate the environment, alter public
      perception on things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus forewent the firewhiskey and poured himself a cup of tea.
      "Like what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Treatment of dark creatures, misconceptions of muggles and
      muggle things, power and prestige established by birthright rather
      than virtue, the usual," Harry explained indifferently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if I were to press you for some more details?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, here's one he's talked me into," Harry agreed sitting
      up straighter. "You know there are dark magics and then there are
      <em class="calibre8">dark</em> magics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus decided a dash of firewhiskey in his tea wouldn't be such
      a bad idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm referring to the more powerful aspects of magic that get
      classified as dark out of ignorance or potential for abuse. The
      idea that if it's something the average wizard cannot safely do,
      then it's something no one should do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you cannot base your understanding of wizards on men of
      our caliber."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not, but here's an example I didn't know," Harry suggested.
      "Blood magic and necromancy are not things you want just anyone to
      be able to study, but you can open a line of communication with the
      dead for just a couple minutes with a cost of two drops of blood
      and no other adverse affects. That's it. Two drops. Magical
      portraits require a remarkably similar procedure with the living
      but for them it's legal and acceptable. Why not allow a murder
      victim to identify his attacker in a carefully controlled courtroom
      environment? Why not allow families a safe way to say goodbye?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is never all those magics are used for," Albus pointed out
      for the sake of argument.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry admitted. "But that's the idea. No magic is
      forbidden if it doesn't impinge on others' freedoms or rights. I'm
      not advocating anarchy or a free for all, but merely governmental
      oversight and regulation. Setting up a system where a wizard like
      you or I can prove and establish that we have the capability to
      safely explore an arcane field of magic, and are then authorized to
      use it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would take a lot of work," Albus commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Right now the government's regulating just a
      few specific things like animagi registration or apparition
      licensing. We're saying instead of covering a few small exceptions,
      cover the broader areas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As proud as wizards are, you know they won't take kindly to
      being officially ranked by power and ability," Albus added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry said. "But that's because a bunch of pompous weak
      arses think the world is entitled to cater to them due to their
      birthright. All of this will undoubtedly be an ongoing debate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I find myself relaxing," Albus admitted. "And looking forward
      to focusing on Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am willing to second your nomination," Albus agreed. "In
      exchange for Lord Slytherin's assistance and hands off approach at
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An occasional pinkie here and there, but hands off," Harry
      agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded in acquiescence. "And I wouldn't mind getting a
      crack at that duel behind closed doors. It would give me an
      opportunity to teach you how to not waste so much energy so
      quickly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, yeah," Harry grumbled feeling slightly embarrassed over
      his reliance on pepper-up potions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was smiling and fighting his instinctual need to know
      everything. "A fifty year plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh lordy," Harry shook his head. "You wouldn't believe some of
      the things he wants to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do tell," Albus urged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered it and decided. "Okay, this one is probably…
      twenty years down the line and will require international
      assistance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus interjected, "The war with Voldemort has not earned us
      very good relations with the rest of the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably why it's twenty years away," Harry said. "But
      basically, he thinks that a few European Ministries working
      together can pitch in and… well, <em class="calibre8">buy</em> the ruins of Atlantis
      from the merfolk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus' eyes widened having only heard the rumor that the merfolk
      knew the location of Atlantis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry agreed. "He doesn't think the resources exist to
      recreate it, but that we could fix the island enough to get it back
      up into the sky. It comes from a time when they weren't any
      satellites or airplanes, so it'll be a warder's dream and a
      diplomatic nightmare. Especially if access is restricted to only
      the most powerful and intelligent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good lord," Albus blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged indifferent. "I'm still not completely convinced
      that he's not trying to build an army of super-wizards to conquer
      the world from the sky with that one. But hey, time will tell,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Albus pleaded as he cleaned his glasses out of habit.
      "Perhaps you should exercise more restraint in revealing the
      frightening details for the future you and your cohort have
      planned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps I should," Harry agreed, suspecting he'd already
      revealed more than Tom would have liked. "But I know it's not
      escaped your notice that our biggest obstacle is going to be
      overcoming the ignorance of people and the irrational cultural
      taboos. That fight begins here, in educating the students and
      turning Hogwarts into an institution where people don't just learn
      magic, but they learn to love magic and be challenged by it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't think we do that now?" Albus asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think," Harry considered his words carefully. "I think you've
      taught them how to survive in the face of war, stressing defense
      and its applications in all the other disciplines."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus inclined his head in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I think you have the rest of this year and most of summer
      to figure out exactly what changes you want to make. If it's
      significant, you may have to sell me on the idea, but we'll make it
      happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster! Headmaster!" the frantic voice of the Deputy
      Headmistress called out as she rushed up the stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus glanced at Harry worriedly. "Minerva, what is it? What's
      the matter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva glanced at Harry sitting there calmly and explained.
      "It's the castle. All of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Albus asked, sensing nothing through the wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's," she leaned forward and whispered in horror. "It's
      green."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus hurried to his window and peered around the edge to see
      the towers and walls had all changed to an unmistakable bright
      kelly green. "Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should go," Harry shouted as he ran down the steps. His first
      impulse had been to apparate away but he wasn't ready to reveal
      that one just yet. "I'll talk to you later, Albus!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry! Get back here!" Albus yelled. "Change it back, Harry.
      This isn't hands off!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mix of running away and walking nonchalantly had him
      determinedly power-walking to the entrance hall. He looked to his
      left as a familiar man came barreling up from the dungeons in a
      remarkably similar power-walk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Harry," Sirius said moving way too briskly to call it
      simply walking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smiled brightly. "It's possible I may have been watching
      an engorging ward in action that was secretly cast over Snivelly's
      office doorframe. What are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned in step with his godfather. "It's possible I may
      have turned Hogwarts green."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was you!" Sirius cheered before thinking it over. They
      both slowed to a walk when they reached open air. "Of course that
      was you. Hey, I was thinking of messing with Narcissa."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix says Narcissa won't answer her letters. I guess she's
      all snippy about her husband's many disgraces and the arrest of her
      son."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The nerve of some people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, well," Sirius grinned. "She's collecting a fat insurance
      settlement for the loss of their family safe. Tonks was thinking
      'Narcissa' could be spotted illegally selling items she claimed
      lost in the fire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's cold."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "Tonks has a bit of a mean streak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry nodded. "They install those at the auror
      academy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sent an invisible finger to poke Sirius in the eye but it
      crashed into an invisible ward that flickered in and out of
      view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ha-ha!" Sirius cheered. "Never again shall
      you-<em class="calibre8">aahh!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes at the futility of Sirius' attempts at
      protection and quickly pinched the back of Sirius' knees. He
      crumpled immediately, flopping backwards with an awkward yelp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on," Sirius shouted indignantly as he struggled to his
      feet. "How fair is that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I could've pounded my way through that little ward
      band, but if I'm not careful about when it collapses I might push
      your eyeball into your brain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would be bad," Sirius commented dusting his robe off.
      "Here's a thought to twist your pickle: if you hadn't saved Ginny
      in the Chamber of Secrets, you could've had teenage Tom Riddle
      easily clean up a bodiless Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Riddleasley?" Harry posited. "Can you even imagine how
      obsessed with me he would have been?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" an angry ghost appeared to defend herself. "Ooh! Are we
      going to the Hog's Head?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny," Harry whined as he made sure no one was looking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here dementor, dementor, dementor," Ginny called out. She
      covered her translucent mouth with her hands and proceeded to make
      a rasping noise that sounded vaguely like a strangled penguin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny, get outta here," Harry snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Make me," she pouted before turning towards the forest and
      making the same strange noise again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry growled slightly and Ginny's ghostly body disappeared from
      view with a pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Harry," Sirius wondered while glancing over his shoulder.
      "Was that really a dementor call?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a hypothetical question." Sirius was doing a poor job of
      concealing his concern. "How much justifiable jealousy is permitted
      before I turn into a woman?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry arched an eyebrow at his godfather. "If you have to ask,
      you're a woman. So spit it out already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't do our thing together anymore," Sirius said thinking
      the glory of their thieving days had passed. "You're magically
      bound to a pair of manipulative bastards-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you liked them," Harry interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do," Sirius asserted. "They're still manipulative bastards.
      Moony is a vindictive asshole and I like him well enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Harry conceded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it feels like we're not going to have nearly as much to do
      with each other," Sirius said, trying not to pout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padfoot, I'm not kicking you out of the new Slytherin ancestral
      home or anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oi!" Sirius shouted. "That's my house!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we've still got our gift."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The ointment will clear that up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that gift," Harry chided. "Alright, here's an idea. There's
      a dueling tournament in Rome in about a month. Top two spots get
      automatic invitations to the world championships."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd kill me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking the pairs division actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was intrigued. "That could be fun. But it's a little…
      civilized."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's always the rumors about the Vatican while we're
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now we're talking," Sirius agreed. "I was also considering some
      alternate outlets for our talents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "I know the vaults would be either impossible or
      more trouble than they're worth, but what would you think about
      breaking into the lowest levels of Gringotts-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Harry said tiredly in a manner reminiscent of
      Albus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-and stealing a dragon," Sirius finished. "Or two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "You know we're supposed to stay out of
      trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the one tantalizing me with rumors of the Catholic
      Church's secret stash," Sirius argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's out of the country," Harry argued. "It doesn't
      count."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you might say that," Sirius happily agreed. "And when
      I did a little dragon-snatching recon, I just happened to have made
      a copy of all of Gringotts planned future excavation projects in
      Greece and Egypt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want to go tomb raiding?" Harry asked. "You know
      curse-breaking isn't the same thing as bypassing modern wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's similar-ish," Sirius defended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what could be a lot of fun?" Harry rhetorically asked.
      "I was thinking we could grab a great big bag of gillyweed-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What kind of weed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Gilly</em>, Sirius," Harry said shaking his head. "Just
      take a whole bunch of it, a couple of kits, and then we could scour
      some hard to reach ocean floors for sunken ships and buried
      treasure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Booty?" Sirius asked excitedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It can be part of a worldwide tour of nudist beaches," Harry
      said with a smile. "And there are some pretty scary creatures if we
      go deep enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the ocean too," Sirius added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Padfoot," Harry agreed before noticing his godfather was
      still hesitating. "What's got sand in your vagina now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned before making a puppy dog face. "See it's nice
      that we still can do stuff together, but I was thinking there's
      this thing called a charm of brotherhood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not doing another of those," Harry insisted. "It's weird
      enough feeling both when I'm talking to one of them about the
      other. If they were ever in the same room with me, it'd feel like
      bad sex."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Sirius was still pouting. "But you know what we could
      do is to make an official blood tie between the Houses of Slytherin
      and Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that do?" Sirius asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For one, as the two family Lords, we would legally be blood
      brothers," Harry explained. "That's way more than any charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd arrived at the Hog's Head and Sirius held the door open
      for Harry. "I think I'd like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will that soothe your overdeveloped feminine side?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just smiled and nodded. He pulled Harry over to the side
      and turned him away from the bar. "Listen Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Sirius was still showing emotion and began to wonder
      if Moony had doused him with a potion or maybe estrogen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Things all around us are always going to be changing." Sirius
      put a comforting hand on Harry's shoulder and gently explained,
      "And I just want you to know…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had his back to the bar and no warning before the charm
      activated and a magical boot swung up into his twig and
      giggleberries with enough force to lift him off the ground. Harry
      caught a glimpse of James Potter's smiling face as his body went
      limp and he fell to the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shouted the victorious end of his sentence. "You got
      skunked by bizarro Prongs this time, <em class="calibre8">bitch</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Harry lowly moaned as he cupped his junk. A pair of
      invisible magical arms grabbed onto Sirius and slammed him
      headfirst into the bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' forehead hit the brass edge with a loud boink that sent
      him reeling backward. He crashed into a table and was squeezing his
      eyes shut while twitching on his back on the floor. "What the
      fuck!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James winced at the violent retaliation and began to question
      his role in this. He heard both Lord Blacks groaning on the floor
      and noticed no one else in the bar was even paying them much
      attention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A regular at the bar saw James' look of confusion. "They're
      always like that. No, what you gotta watch out for is when that one
      next to you gets some firewhiskey in him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" James gasped turning to his son in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moe," Jimmy snipped. "Shut it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moe just laughed and pointed at Jimmy. "I saw this one beat
      himself up. Punched his own face purple. Damnedest thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fucking hell, Harry. I think you knocked my brain loose,"
      Sirius said as he made his way back to his feet. "Are we cool?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was taking slow deliberate steps in an effort to walk it
      off. "Yeah, we're good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lovely," James said rubbing his hands together. "Because my
      dinner arrived while we were waiting under the invisibility
      cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, no, no," Harry said, shaking his head. "I'm not done
      with <em class="calibre8">you</em> yet, Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James saw the look in Harry's eyes and felt the eager glares of
      most everyone else in the room. "Right. You know I just remembered
      some paperwork I forgot to finish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad?" Jimmy said as he saw his father briskly heading for the
      door. "What about your food?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James just waved over his shoulder without turning around. "You
      can keep my sandwich!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry furrowed his brow and tilted his head in thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that turkey?" Sirius asked, grabbing half of James'
      sandwich.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm getting the weirdest feeling of déjà vu," Harry said,
      grabbing the other half of sandwich. He plopped down into a chair,
      sitting across from Sirius and Jimmy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any idea from what?" Sirius asked in between bites.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had the answer on the tip of his tongue, but he just
      couldn't quite get it. "No," he said with a resigned sigh. He
      chewed up another bite of his sandwich. "It's like I can hear those
      words, over and over: you can keep my sandwich."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With all the déjà vu, do you guys ever think that maybe we
      really did play the Obliviate game?" Jimmy wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at the little brother he never had. "We play it
      all the time. And yes Jimmy, you're horrible at it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's usually after a few rounds of the Gullibility game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay now you're just making fun of me," Jimmy insisted, before
      worriedly clarifying, "Right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why would you remember 'You can keep my sandwich?'" Sirius
      repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Harry pleaded. "If I did, it'd just be a memory,
      or with my luck a traumatic flashback."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a fucking retarded line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just saying it'd never make it onto a T-shirt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're still talking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But there's nothing memorable about that line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're only harping on it because I can't remember it and you
      know that frustrates the hell out of me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned. "And your point is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Jimmy interrupted. "I don't even know how to cast a
      memory charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's probably why you're so awful at the game," Harry
      retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmph," Jimmy grumbled. "And here I was going to tell you the
      significance of your line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on," Harry whined. "Tell me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy thrust a victorious fist into the air. He made the low
      rumbling sound of an approving crowd. "Ladies and gentlemen,
      there's a new leader in the Gullibility game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All because he can't remember the line 'You can keep my
      sandwich.'" Sirius happily reminded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of these days," Harry warned them both. "One of these days
      I'm just gonna snap, go dark, and kill you all. You realize that,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not today, Harry," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not today," Harry agreed. "But tomorrow's a distinct
      possibility."</p>
      <hr class="calibre11"/>
      <p class="calibre10"><strong class="calibre7">THE END</strong></p>
      <hr class="calibre11"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: I struggled a little,
      rewriting the last scene a number of times before finally realizing
      that after well over two hundred thousand words, I didn't have to
      end it with the perfect zinger as much as I had to end it. This fic
      has been a lot of work and in my mind will always be remembered as
      the story that was interrupted by my Mom kicking cancer's ass. It
      was intended to be different from the usual Harry Potter fanfiction
      because Voldemort was a minor sub-plot in a story about the
      relationship between Harry and Sirius. A relationship where instead
      of Sirius becoming the new James to Harry (father son), it was
      about Harry becoming the new James to Sirius (best
      friends).</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I think I accomplished my goal, but I'd love to hear any
      final comments, thoughts, or opinions you are willing to share.
      Whether you've been waiting on updates eagerly, or were one of the
      lucky ones to read the whole thing straight through without
      suffering the anguish of my cliffhangers, a little more feedback
      will make me feel loved, appreciated, grateful, stroke my ego, make
      me a better writer, or most likely, inspire me to write more. And
      feel free to thank the excellent alphas and betas helping me
      straighten out the mess of ideas that went into this fic: Jim, IP,
      Chuck, Chris, Rob, Sean, JJ, and the others I will edit in here as
      soon as I remember them.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Since I've been hearing the calls already, I shall say there
      are no plans for a sequel here and I'd mark it as 'unlikely' to
      ever have one. As for what's next for me, I will admit to being
      taken in by an idea for an original story in a universe of my own
      making. I'm going to give that a try for a while, but it is
      inevitable more fanfic bunnies will bug me until I write them.
      Could be a little while before I get to them as I want to give a
      fair shot to writing about my own characters, but I'll be back with
      a new story sometime. Thanks for all the reviews and actually
      reading this long ass author's note. Now about that one last review
      I asked for...<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
