<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER EIGHT, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: Two and a half weeks for a
      normal-sized chapter is undoubtedly too long for many of you. But
      oh well. I've been busy. And I've got a jump on the next chapter
      now. Expect the next one in less than two and a half weeks. Thanks
      for all the reviews. They make my day and make me write
      faster.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty eight thousand galleons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But <em class="calibre8">twenty eight thousand galleons</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Sirius, I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The furniture alone is worth that much. That was an original
      Van Eyk charmed boudoir in perfect condition. That's probably
      fifteen large on its own. And even in that shape, the Mage Cloak
      was still worth-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're looking at this the wrong way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're knowingly taking less than half of market price. How else
      am I supposed to look at it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Harry said making sure he had his attention. "We just
      made twenty eight thousand galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With Felix we may not get as much as we could elsewhere, but we
      can trust him. He can spread these things around to make them
      untraceable. He offered to let us obliviate him-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He only said that because he can break memory charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's symbolic. He gave us an Unbreakable Vow to never reveal
      anything about us. This wasn't just 'stuff' when we had it, it was
      evidence. And Sirius, I'll repeat it once more a little louder:
      <em class="calibre8">we are now twenty eight thousand galleons richer than we were
      yesterday afternoon.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True." Sirius was fighting a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a good thing," Harry said with a nod. "We may get less
      money but we get more peace of mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Sirius grumbled scuffing his shoes. "It's just-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what might make you feel better," Harry interrupted.
      "Why don't we go spend a few thousand galleons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay!" Sirius shouted excitedly. "Wait. Are we spending our own
      money or someone else's?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to think about the question. "I suppose we are
      spending our own money. But, and this is an important 'but,' but at
      least we didn't <em class="calibre8">earn</em> it through an honest day's work like
      a sucker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded slowly. "I can live with that."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"I'm not going to wear it," Sirius indignantly argued. "And
      you need to slow down before we go broke. Again."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Harry sighed. "What have I bought? Have you even been
      paying attention?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You spent three thousand galleons just to get a couple of
      trunks impenetrably charmed to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, urging for Sirius to continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You spent twelve hundred galleons on just anchor stones,
      including some that cost over a hundred galleons for one hunk of
      rock!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A pair of chameleon cloaks for each of us. I'll admit they're
      nice, but at 400 galleons each, I don't think we both need an extra
      cloak that'll just collect dust in the back of our closets."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do understand that with the chameleon cloak, we don't have
      to buy any muggle outfits… ever?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius ignored him. "And now you just spent seventeen hundred
      galleons on a couple of necklaces."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I like to think of it as <em class="calibre8">we</em> spent not
      just me, but yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're supposed to be for a husband and wife," Sirius
      bemoaned. "And they're ugly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "Okay, I'll admit they're… a bit gaudy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A bit?" Sirius questioned, unconsciously raising his voice.
      "Harry, inch thick gold chain is more than <em class="calibre8">a bit
      gaudy</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not that thick," Harry grumbled. "And you're a wizard,
      aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "It's the principle. You don't bang fat
      chicks just because they can cast a glamour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you even know what these necklaces are?" Harry said gripping
      a hold of the thick chain around his neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius grimaced. "They're an old traditional wedding
      gift used for the consummation of arranged marriages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose that's one use, but do you know what they do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They allow a shared mental connection between the two people
      wearing them. It's for the purpose of creating a feedback loop of
      pleasure to ease the tension of the wedding night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, I don't know what anyone told you about a godfather's
      duties, but-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please don't finish that thought," Harry said with a wince.
      "The point is that it opens a mental connection between us. They
      allow us to communicate completely silently across distances. Think
      like the magical mirrors but without anyone ever knowing we're
      talking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius thought about it. "That would've been great for pranking.
      And tests."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So instead of carrying a mirror like a Malfoy, we're gonna wear
      jewelry that even a blind goblin would find hideous?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everything I've bought for us is going to make our new hobby
      easier. That's more than you can say. Why did you buy a photo
      development kit anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snickered to himself. "I might have come across a
      wizarding camera last night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at him expectantly. "And?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I want to develop the pictures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "You're that curious what pictures are on
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I <em class="calibre8">know</em> one picture that's on it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry began to put two and two together. "And of course you took
      a picture of your privates and can't exactly drop those off at the
      Wiz-mart photo department."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head, inordinately proud of himself. "It's not
      a picture of my boys. But good idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope you didn't take any pictures that are going to be later
      described as the prosecution's exhibit A."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not exactly," Sirius mysteriously answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just looked at his godfather not wanting to indulge him at
      the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was waiting. "Aren't you gonna ask?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why should I when you're about to tell me anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius couldn't hold it and joyfully explained, "Fine. Don't get
      all pillock-like on me. So you know I grabbed all their toiletries,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "I assumed you were just too lazy to buy your own
      shampoo and toothpaste."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "I actually didn't clear out the
      <em class="calibre8">entire</em> bathroom." Sirius paused and couldn't have stopped
      smiling if he wanted to. "I left behind the Baron's
      toothbrush."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes. "Oh Merlin, Sirius. I've heard rumors
      about things like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," Sirius continued ignoring Harry. "I knew you'd throw a
      hissy-fit if I sent them a picture of my bum, because then they'd
      know I'm a wizard, white, and have an adorable arse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought hissy-fit wasn't the term he would've used but
      nodded silently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I just happened to walk past a perfectly good unconscious
      house elf, and I just happened to be carrying a wizarding camera,
      and I just happened to have the good Baron's toothbrush." Sirius
      shrugged helplessly. "So I did what any wizard would have
      done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was tempted to debate just what any wizard would have done
      but settled for silently pitying the poor elf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was like Fate herself was slapping her knee, pointing, and
      begging, 'Do it again! Do it again!'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt slightly ashamed that he was looking forward to the
      picture. "Let's go get the floo connected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Sirius mockingly agreed. "We should throw more money
      away, this time at the government." He shook his head grumbling
      "Why can't the Ministry close on Sundays like the whole muggle
      world does?"</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Ow!" The little man behind the counter whined rubbing his
      arm. "Did you just throw a sickle at me?"</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head trying to fight a chuckle. Partly because
      it was horribly cheesy that Harry took Sirius' words literally and
      just physically threw money at the government, and partly because
      Sirius wished he had thought of it first. "Could be worse. He
      could've thrown a sickle at you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stocky wizard was confused. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good afternoon," Harry greeted paying no attention to the coin
      he'd just thrown. "We would like to get our ancestral home
      reconnected to the floo system."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A reconnection? What's the address?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Number Twelve Grimmauld Place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The short man had pulled out a thick ledger and was flipping
      through it. "That's London?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Harry said while entertaining himself by using his
      magical arms to nudge Sirius' hair. Sirius kept swatting behind his
      head thinking a bug was landing in his hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah-ha! Number Twelve Grimmauld Place, the Noble and Most
      Ancient House of Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We prefer Ancientest," Harry corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?" the man asked in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry maintained his deadpan expression. "Most Ancient is a
      muggle phrase. We're the Noble and Ancientest House of Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Lord Black," Sirius introduced with a nod. "My associate,
      Lord Black, never finished his proper schooling and you know how
      dropouts are. So he overcompensates and tries to correct people for
      no real reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man had stopped flipping through the ledger and looked up at
      the two men. Completely flummoxed on how to respond, he just looked
      back down and went back to his search.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black and Lord Black," the man greeted while retrieving
      all the paperwork on Number Twelve Grimmauld Place. "I've heard
      about you two. I'm Greg Olson." He was looking through the file and
      snuck a glance up at the two Lord Blacks. "Do you mind if I ask you
      how the House of Black is going to vote tomorrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned towards Sirius wondering if he knew anything about
      this. Sirius shook his head and asked, "There's a Wizengamot vote
      tomorrow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The issue of Muggleborn Rights," Greg explained. "I was just
      wondering if you knew or were willing to share which way the House
      of Black is going to vote."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to do it," Harry said to Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, we can do it," Sirius agreed and clarified, "We're on
      the side that thinks muggleborns should have rights, aren't
      we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you are," Greg butted in, "then you're probably
      <em class="calibre8">against</em> the issue they're calling Muggleborn Rights this
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Harry asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This steaming pile of legislation supposedly empowers
      muggleborns over their muggle relatives, but it also empowers the
      Ministry over their muggle relatives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ugh," Sirius grumbled hearing the explanation and noticing
      Harry was listening intently. "Learning. Politics. Getting
      weaker..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned at Sirius and asked Greg, "What do you mean
      empowers over?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should research the issue if you're going to vote on it
      tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry agreed enjoying the frown on Sirius' face. "We
      definitely should."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is your fault," Sirius warned leaning towards Greg. "I may
      forget a face or two, but I never forget a name, Craig Olson."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greg," Harry corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greg," Sirius continued without blinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Greg fidgeted under Sirius' angry stare. "Let's get an
      appointment scheduled for you to get your floo reconnected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't you just turn it back on from here?" Sirius complained.
      "Do you really need to come to our fireplaces?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, we could," Greg nodded. "But we don't do that
      anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" Harry asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's policy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's policy, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not a reason," Sirius argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held up a hand, stopping Greg from responding. "Let's set
      up the appointment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Greg looked down at the calendar on the front desk. "Looks like
      we have some time tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've now got the Wizengamot vote tomorrow," Harry said. "How
      about the day after?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Greg was shaking his head and making quiet clicking sounds.
      "Sorry, no open dates the day after. Nor the next day, nor the
      next…" Greg was flipping the pages of the calendar quickly, just
      shaking his head. "Here we go. Our next open appointment is August
      18th."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"August 18th?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell you what, Harry," Sirius volunteered. "I'll stay home and
      handle the installation while you do the research and homework
      stuff Greg assigned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Greg cleared his throat and added, "For what it's worth, if you
      both wish to be able to augment your floo connections, then you'll
      both need to be present for the installation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guess we won't be able to get in and vote this time," Sirius
      said patting Harry on the back. "We'll do lots of fun research next
      time. Don't worry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"August 18th really is the next earliest we can do this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes sir," Greg answered. "But if I may point something
      out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded that Greg should continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We only do appointments during normal business hours, and the
      Wizengamot vote is an evening session. They won't overlap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry beamed a smile at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was half growling. "Your name is quickly moving up my
      list, Craig."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greg," Harry supplied again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Greg," Sirius corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Greg was beginning to wonder if Sirius was getting his name
      wrong purposefully. "So the appointment tomorrow, should I put you
      down for eight to noon or one to five?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One to five," Sirius answered immediately, while Harry
      responded, "Eight to noon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two Lord Blacks turned to each other and began to have a
      silent battle of wills.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," Greg interrupted them. "You misunderstood me. The
      appointment times have to be flexible. I was asking if I should put
      you down for tomorrow, yes or no. The appointment tomorrow is for
      eight to noon or one to five."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both times?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Greg nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "That's just cruel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's our policy, sir," Greg answered happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll take the appointment tomorrow," Harry said glancing at
      his watch. He looked at Sirius and said, "It's quarter past. You
      want to go bug Moony at work? We're going to need his help setting
      up some of our new toys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "I probably owe him a dinner or two. And now I
      can afford it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned towards Greg and asked, "Do we pay you now or when
      it gets turned on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have to pay at least your past due charges now," Greg
      assured them, finishing the paperwork. "And if you want it set up
      as joint custody, you both need to sign here and here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They signed the paperwork, while Sirius was obviously fretting
      over ways their new necklaces and 'joint custody' could easily be
      misconstrued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius walked back to the apparition point in the
      Ministry. Sirius knew the way to Remus' office and apparated away
      with Harry following on his trail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius led him out of the tube station and down the street a
      half block. They entered an office building and walked up to a
      suite on the second floor. "Is Mr. Lupin in his office?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman at the front desk just nodded without pausing in her
      phone conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius waved Harry to follow him and led him back through a
      small cubicle farm. He reached an office that said <em class="calibre8">Remus J.
      Lupin</em> across the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced at Harry and urged, "Do me a favor and close the
      door behind you." Sirius grabbed the handle to Remus' office and
      whipped it open, shouting out loud, "Scotland Yard! Get your hands
      up and face the wall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus looked up suddenly. "What are you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said face the wall!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh god."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grabbed a hold of Remus and spun him around before
      shoving him hard into the wall and rattling a framed poster of a
      kitten.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked both ways and saw almost everyone was looking
      towards Remus' office. He let no emotion show on his face as he
      stared them all down before sharply closing the door with him in
      the office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit Sirius," Remus grumbled easily breaking free from his
      grip. "I'm trying to work here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry peered at the computer screen. "That's a card game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't say I was succeeding at working, just trying to,"
      Remus haughtily retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what would your bosses have to say about this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus plopped back into his chair. "Who knows? They might give
      me another promotion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They gave you one already?" Harry inquired. "I thought you
      didn't know much about computers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus nodded. "A couple months ago there was a free seminar on
      our products for any employee who wished to take it. Everyone in my
      department wanted to go, including me. But the seminar was during
      the full moon, so I couldn't. When I got back to work on Thursday,
      I discovered everyone else knew a lot more than me about computers.
      And apparently for that reason, they promoted me to Senior
      Consultant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because you know <em class="calibre8">less</em> than the others," Sirius
      clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus shrugged. "I don't understand muggles any more than I
      understand wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced at Harry and back at Remus. "You ready to sneak
      out of here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus paused to consider the question while closing his computer
      game windows. He hopped up and opened his office door to address
      his gossip-loving colleagues. "I'm not in any trouble. These were
      just a couple of my friends playing around. Julie, is McAlister
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Julie looked up from her desk. "Is McAlister ever here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about Maddox?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Julie shook her head. "She went home over an hour ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, thanks," Remus said closing the door to his office
      again. He pulled on the cord that shut his blinds. "You got
      something fun for us to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need your help on a little project," Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius added, "And I wanna buy you dinner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You? Buy?" Remus asked in surprise. "Are you sure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smirked, "Well I am a little buy-curious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We came into a little money and need your help," Harry
      interjected. "Everybody wins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus nodded and waved the two men towards him away from the
      window in his office door. "We can just apparate out from
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked half-expecting they would need to kidnap Remus to
      get him to skip out on work. "Won't they notice you never left your
      office?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus shrugged. "I wouldn't be surprised if they think I'm just
      working late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius tapped his chin. "You know this whole work thing doesn't
      sound quite as bad as I'd expected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I prefer our new jobs," Harry argued with a smile at
      Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Remus said looking at the two grinning Lord Blacks.
      "You guys got jobs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry exchanged a glance just before they both
      apparated away. "Meet you back at Grimmauld Place."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"No way," Remus repeated for the sixth time, shaking his head
      in amazement. "They were just going to throw this stuff
      away?"</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hard to believe, isn't it?" Sirius grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is a really nice robe," Remus said enjoying the feel of
      acromantula silk. "I mean really, <em class="calibre8">really</em> nice. Normally,
      I'd refuse your generosity, but I can see you stumbled across
      plenty of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know!" Sirius cheered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You guys must be the luckiest blokes in the world," Remus
      commented while he and Sirius were arranging where to put all the
      new electronics. Remus was explaining the various parts while
      Sirius just nodded and didn't even try to pay attention.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit!" Harry swore as the ward stones flared up and died.
      "I'm still not doing this right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you following the instructions correctly?" Remus asked from
      behind a quickly growing mess of wires and cables.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry answered. "I'm doing the spell exactly the way the
      book says. But it's not working."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try your other wand," Sirius suggested with a shrug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus stuck his head out and glared at Sirius. "The wand he's
      using won't make any difference in the magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hot damn!" Harry cheered. "Sirius I could kiss you right now if
      that didn't mean I'd be admitting you were right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hah!" Sirius smirked at Remus. "I told you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus just went back behind the TV and ignored Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Since the spell was working, Harry cast sticking charms on the
      rest of the ward stones and affixed them to the four corners of the
      ceiling and the four corners of the floor. The four walls, the
      floor, and the ceiling all needed the spell cast on it, isolating
      this particular room off from the magic of the rest of the
      home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus came back around to the extra long couch and had three
      different remotes in his hands. "We're ready whenever you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had just finished casting the spell for a sixth time and
      was inspecting where the magical boundaries met. "I think we're
      good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here goes nothing," Remus said pointing the remote at giant
      television while the two other Lord Blacks collapsed into the couch
      on either side of him. The screen flickered to life and had warning
      text stating, 'Warming Up…'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No way," Remus cheered. "It works." He turned on the DVD player
      and saw it light up. "No way!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced at how excited Remus was and commented, "This
      isn't exactly the stimulating sort of show I was looking for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The screen had finished warming up and was a royal blue,
      exclaiming it was looking for an 'input signal.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If there's a disc in the player, it should have just started
      up," Remus explained. He looked down at the first remote for the
      television and began to fiddle with the buttons. "Maybe I need
      to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"AAH!" Sirius shrieked as blaring loud music came from all
      directions around him. All three men had their hands over their
      ears and yet continued to try and communicate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it supposed to be that loud?" Harry screamed over the
      noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus shrugged, fiddling with more buttons. "I think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe a silencing charm," Sirius was mumbling as he took out
      his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Remus snapped grabbing the wand from Sirius' hand. He
      chucked it out into the hallway. "Don't cast magic on the
      electronics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm pretty sure you can turn the volume down," Harry shouted
      over the orchestral song and movie's opening credits.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?" Remus shouted back, showing the remote to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at it. "Perhaps the arrow buttons labeled
      Volume?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh right," Remus agreed and quickly lowered the volume to a far
      more acceptable level. "Sorry about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shh!" Sirius scolded slapping Remus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?" Remus said when he saw Sirius hadn't even looked
      towards him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm trying to watch this, I don't want to miss it and you keep
      talking," Sirius explained while clearly enraptured by the
      screen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus hit pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No!" Sirius snapped. "You broke it. Fix it, Moony. Fix
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I paused it," Remus explained and hit play followed by pause
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius huffed and tried to grab the remote, but Remus pulled his
      hand away. Sirius whined, "Give me the wand. You don't know how to
      work it right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you think it's a wand, then it's clearly not safe in your
      hands," Remus retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus let out a slightly feminine shriek when he felt pokes on
      both the left and right sides of his belly. He dropped the remote
      in reflex as an invisible hand grabbed it and pulled it away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't I hold the remote, while you two children wrestle for
      it," Harry said keeping the remote up in the air and out of their
      reach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're on!" Sirius agreed, grabbing a hold of Remus and taking
      him by surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padfoot, he wasn't being sincere. He was calling you childish,"
      Remus complained despite being held in a half nelson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the talk of a loser if I ever heard one," Sirius
      grumbled as Remus' werewolf strength quickly turned the tables on
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just rolled his eyes and hit play on the remote.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two grown men, who were wrestling on the floor, stopped and
      just looked up at the giant screen. Neither had bothered to
      extricate themselves from the other's grip. They were both simply
      entranced at the wondrous technology of muggles and the tale
      unfolding before their eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was stifling his chuckles at the fact that Remus and
      Sirius were still holding each other and watching the movie. He
      summoned Sirius' camera and snapped a few shots when they gripped
      each other tightly in moments of fright and surprise. Before long
      Harry also got caught up in the movie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You guys here?" Tonks' voice came from the foyer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Upstairs," Harry called back suddenly realizing they'd been
      watching a movie for over twenty minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus and Sirius were still on the floor, neither even aware
      that Harry or Tonks had said anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Holy crap!" Tonks exclaimed at the sight of the giant
      telly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shh!" Remus and Sirius both shushed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hit pause on the movie.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Sirius whined. "What are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus suddenly realized his predicament. "Padfoot. Could you
      take your arm off my waist please?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's stuck between two pillows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't have any-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gah," Sirius said quickly pulling away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks looked at Harry. "Do I want to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled at Tonks. "I took pictures of the lovers' embrace
      on the floor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius plopped himself back on the couch and yelped, "Hey!
      That's my new camera, you thief."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You found a camera too?" Remus asked in surprise. "No way!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of thieves," Tonks grinned. "Last night someone
      cleaned house at Parkinson Manor. Potter's been moaning about it
      all day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Harry said without conviction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Sirius echoed innocently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I only mention because you just happened to find a camera
      around the same time someone stole a camera from the Parkinsons,
      along with the vast majority of their other earthly possessions,"
      Tonks said glancing at the massive muggle home entertainment
      center. "It's curious timing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This stuff is probably all stolen!" Remus suddenly realized. "I
      mean the odds of you guys just finding all this stuff in one place
      the same night as a major robbery have to be astronomical. You did
      say you found it all in the same place, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Sirius said before Harry poked him in the belly.
      "Oof."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Harry said with a wide smile. "Found all of it in the
      same place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks saw the nice robe her adoptive father was wearing and
      smirked. "And just what else did you find?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tons," Remus answered for them. "They got a whole…" He stopped
      and turned towards the two Lord Blacks who were inspecting their
      surroundings and whistling nonchalantly. "You didn't just find
      anything at all, did you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doubt it," Tonks said through her snickers. "Unless you count
      finding things around Parkinson Manor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry and asked, "How long are we supposed to
      act innocent?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry deflated and sighed. "Well you can stop acting now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You guys stole from the Parkinsons!" Remus yelled in
      outrage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius answered with a firm nod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't you ashamed of yourselves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry and shook his head. "No, not really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not so much that we wanted to quote-unquote <em class="calibre8">steal</em>
      from them, as it is that we wanted to remove some of the Death
      Eaters' resources," Harry feebly explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And reallocate them to our pockets," Sirius added with a grin.
      "Why are your panties in such a twist, Moony?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Remus said still unable to keep his voice down.
      "But it's wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we let things like 'right' and 'wrong' get in the way, then
      the terrorists have already won," Sirius sagely argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got the distinct feeling Sirius wasn't the most skilled
      debater before turning to face Tonks. "To be honest, I wasn't sure
      if they were even going to report it. Did they manage to dispel the
      calling card in the entryway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You guys took everything," Tonks added. "They <em class="calibre8">had</em> to
      report it. And no, the floating dildo was still there when we
      arrived, which by the way was getting a lot of discussion on what
      to call it. I think the frontrunner last I heard was the After-Dark
      Mark, though Rockwell was insisting that it should be called the
      Dirk Mark for some reason. Personally, I think-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tonks," Remus interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Tonks said as she realized a dildo discussion in front
      of her adopted father and the two dimension traveling knuckleheads
      couldn't possibly end well. "Anyways, they left it up for the
      investigators. The DoM captured the wand signature from the mark
      and it wasn't on file."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "Did you at least ask Baron Parkinson some
      uncomfortable questions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks shook her head. "He was away on <em class="calibre8">business</em>, or so
      we've been told. He left the missus to deal with the DMLE. Are you
      sure Parkinson is a Death Eater?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "As certain as I can be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was this a gut feeling or did you see the mark?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snakes can sense the serpent magic of the Dark Mark," Harry
      explained. "Parkinson had it. 'It leaves a stain on the soul' a
      particularly poetic cobra told me once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a useful trick," Tonks said with a low whistle,
      "detecting the Dark Mark."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't detect it," Harry clarified. "I'm just one of the few
      people in the world who can talk to the ones who can detect it. And
      before you even ask, you don't have to worry. We're not going to be
      reallocating from anyone until after we've confirmed they're
      branded Voldemort cattle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Remus jumped in. "You're going to do this
      <em class="calibre8">again</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We finally get new jobs and you're trying to get me to quit?"
      Sirius said shaking his head. "Moony, I'm disappointed in you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a not a job, it's a crime," Remus said looking over at
      Tonks. "And come to think of it, you've implicitly made us all
      accomplices, including a respected Auror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a good point boys," Tonks jumped in. "I can't just turn
      my head the other way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Remus nodded glad to have some support.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Certainly not when the old guy here gets himself such a fine
      silk robe and I've got nothing to wear to help you celebrate your
      new jobs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well we're going to have to do something about that," Sirius
      grinned back as Remus' head dropped in disappointment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come with me, Auror Tonks-Lupin," Harry said swinging an arm
      over her shoulder. "I think we can locate a wardrobe or two in your
      size. Or maybe some jewelry that befits a member of the Black
      family."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now we're talking," Tonks agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave her a playful squeeze of the bum, adding, "Who knows?
      We may even figure out a way to celebrate where having nothing to
      wear is the appropriate attire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus sighed as Tonks and Harry walked away. "We were good
      people before we met you two. Honest, hard-working magical
      citizens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius slung an arm over Moony's shoulder imitating Harry's
      earlier action. "Maybe, but you weren't having this much fun
      either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Remus admitted with a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why do you even care so much about us thieving from the
      folks you'd openly consider the enemy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus smirked. "I don't care. But someone needs to disagree with
      you two before you try to overthrow the government."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's tomorrow," Sirius assured him as he picked up the
      television remote. "Why don't you show me how to make the thing
      louder with this muggle wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus grinned. "You want to watch the rest of the movie?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "That and I figured you'd want to make sure to
      drown out any noise coming from Harry's room right about now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, that's it," Remus insisted. "You really need to learn a
      thing or two about fathers and their daughters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius could always tell when Remus was ripe for riling up.
      "Well I think your daughter may be the one learning a thing or
      two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus clenched his eyes shut. "It's about common courtesy and
      basic propriety. Things you just don't say, to certain people, even
      when they're obvious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know we picked up a whole lot of really old musty smelling
      books," Sirius teased when he saw Remus' eyes light up. "I only
      mention it because there's a chance that right now Harry and Tonks
      are having sex."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus growled softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At this very moment, his penis could be in her-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give me the muggle wand and shut up," Remus snapped, figuring
      if he couldn't beat him, he should join him. And make sure to beat
      him later much harder with a big stick.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
