<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>45. Hermione Granger and the Other Side-Effect - Hermione Granger and the Other Side-Effect Chapter 1: Side effects may include swelling, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="45. Hermione Granger and the Other Side-Effect"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Side Effects May Include Swelling</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The summer of 1992 had been a particularly busy-and
      productive!-one for both Harry and Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had delegated the construction of the Hospital to Mad-Eye
      Moody (Harry had offered to restore Moody's eye and leg, but the
      grizzled old war veteran had declined), had used the Philosopher's
      Stone to cure Remus Lupin of his lycanthropy, had introduced some
      minor legislation to the Wizengamot through Amelia Bones-which
      would pave the way for future "legal optimization"-and had
      successfully pushed through some critical changes to the Hogwarts
      curriculum to the Hogwarts Board of Governors through Headmistress
      McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had taken up residence in Harry's Tower, as it came to
      be called, seeing as her parents didn't yet know of her
      resurrection and she couldn't return to the Muggle world anyway as
      there was no way to explain away her reported death. After some
      preparation and training from Harry, she'd successfully undertaken
      and completed her first "quest"-notable as it resulted in the
      complete annihilation of all the dementors at Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's act of selfless heroism had earned her the loyalty of
      a phoenix, which she named Pyro. Neither Harry nor McGonagall could
      have been prouder upon finding the bird on Hermione's shoulder when
      she'd returned. Somehow the girl seemed to stand taller than
      before. Harry chalked it up to a boost in self-confidence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The quest had drained Hermione though, and she needed to rest.
      Even with her improved metabolism, the exposure to dementors had
      taken its toll. She spent a week in bed in the Hospital Wing (as
      the Philosopher's Stone would not be of any use to her mental
      recovery). Madam Pomfrey kept her supplied with chocolate, which
      Hermione was more than eager to accept.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hermione was released, however, she immediately noticed
      something...different...about herself. After speaking with Madam
      Pomfrey and having several diagnostic charms cast upon her, she
      sprinted up to Harry's Tower and knocked on his door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood up from his desk-he'd been industriously filling a
      journal full of ideas he wanted to pursue, pending Hermione's
      approval. Stepping to the door, he opened it, only to find himself
      looking at Hermione for the first time in a week. Correction:
      looking *up* at Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had been about an inch taller than Harry ever since
      they first met the prior September, but now Hermione was closer to
      *six* inches taller.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've...grown," Harry said, taking a step back to allow
      Hermione to enter. He looked down, noticing that Hermione wasn't
      wearing shoes. Her old ones probably didn't fit anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I noticed," Hermione replied, stepping inside. "Madam Pomfrey
      is as baffled as I am. Can you explain this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It only took a moment for Harry to realize what was happening,
      and he paled at the thought. Troll somatotropin. Hermione's troll
      physiology was producing the peptide hormone tST. She'd probably
      end up twelve feet tall by the time she was fully grown. Somehow he
      doubted the Philosopher's Stone would offer a permanent solution to
      Hermione's predicament.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ummm," Harry intoned. He found himself intrigued, as well as a
      little intimidated. "I have a hunch, but you have to learn
      occlumency before I tell you," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione raised an eyebrow at this. "You definitely know
      something," she accused. "Can you at least tell me how much more
      I'm likely to grow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ummm. Remember how you wanted to be the big heroine?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione did not look amused by the pun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er...Maybe you should sit down first," Harry offered.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
