<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>33. Nothing Left but Fire - Nothing Left but Fire Chapter 4, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="33. Nothing Left but Fire"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Well, thiss iss unexpected."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry whirled around at the sound of the voice behind him, then
      squeaked at an embarrassingly high pitch and fell over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just behind him was a giant serpent, coiled around the room, its
      head lowered towards the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mouth was still making involuntary noises, and the only
      words he could force out were somewhat incoherent.
      "What...but...how...but...what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Sspeak to me, Heir of Sslytherin. How did you come to be
      here?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, that was right, Basilisks would only be able to speak in
      Parseltongue, that had even been in Fantastic Beasts and Where to
      Find Them, it wasn't even uncommon knowledge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I sspoke to a ssnake Patronuss that referred to itsself as
      the emisssary of Sslyth-"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sharp hiss cut him off. <em class="calibre8">"I know the meanss by which thiss
      Chamber may be accesssed. But I did not expect any Heir to arrive
      so soon. The lasst Heir of Sslytherin came to Hogwarts a mere few
      decadess ago, there has not been time for another to
      arisse."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake raised its head, a pose that Harry instinctively
      parsed as <em class="calibre8">threatening</em>, like a dog showing its teeth.
      <em class="calibre8">"And I arrive to find that the lasst Heir was ssomehow both
      cunning enough to sslay Sslytherin'ss Monsster and foolissh enough
      to leave a messsage gloating about it. But more than that, I arrive
      to find another Heir. An Heir who sshould not be here, who sshould
      not even exisst."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The coils shifted position, slid over and around one another,
      and Harry saw <em class="calibre8">poised, ready to pounce, attack stance</em>.
      <em class="calibre8">"The next thought would, of coursse, be that you are ssomehow
      connected to the previous Heir. A creation of hiss, or a
      ssimulacrum, ssent here in an attempt to finissh the Chamber. And
      if there iss one time we may sstrike againsst an Heir, it iss when
      the continuation of the Chamber iss threatened. If there iss a good
      explanation for your pressence here, would be wisse to sspeak
      now."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gulped, then the words came flooding out. Honesty might or
      might not be a good general policy, but when you were speaking to a
      snake that could kill you literally with a blink, you were
      incapable of lying, and the snake thought you were the Dark Lord
      come back to somehow finish it off (though how it had escaped Lord
      Voldemort the first time was still beyond him), Harry couldn't see
      any better ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"There iss a good explanation. It iss ssomewhat complicated,
      pleasse allow me to finissh explaining before eating me."</em>
      Harry winced. He'd wanted to phrase that a bit differently, but
      somehow it hadn't worked. It seemed Parseltongue prevented even
      small lies for the sake of politics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he hadn't been eaten yet, so that was encouraging.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake listened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It asked questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry answered them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At length, Slytherin's Monster spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"That iss...the ssingle leasst plaussible sstory I have ever
      heard."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's heart sank, he wondered if he could reach for his wand,
      what would happen, how fast could the Monster kill him...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"But...I have heard it in Parsseltongue. And it iss not
      wisse to be hassty to judgement in ssuch circumsstances.
      Sso...Heir, you will casst the Anti-Confunduss Charm upon
      yoursself, now."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I do not know what that iss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">An exasperated hiss. <em class="calibre8">"Sspell iss not difficult to casst,
      sshould be within power even of firsst-year child. Gessturess and
      incantationss required are tricky, but if you have any chance of
      truly being Heir you sshould be able to learn them sswiftly. Follow
      my insstructionss precissely."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took Harry three tries, but at length he was able to manage a
      <em class="calibre8">Nullus Confundio</em>, and the black beam touched him and
      winked out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an expectant silence, and Harry realized that there
      was something he ought to be saying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"All that I have ssaid to you before, regarding my
      connection with the Dark Lord and my purpossess in being here, iss
      true."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This repeated with a couple other spells Harry didn't recognize.
      He listened, learned, and cast them almost on autopilot, while his
      brain worked in the background.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps the Dark Lord had failed to kill Slytherin's Monster -
      but it had seemed pretty decisively killed. Maybe it could come
      back to life, like a phoenix? No, that would be stupid, how would
      it even do that. Or maybe...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was pretty confident now, he thought that he knew what had
      happened. If you could create a Basilisk, teach it lore, and set it
      in Hogwarts to teach your descendants...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">..then why couldn't you create two?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or three? Or ten? Or, in fact, a whole population of Basilisks,
      living in a Chamber more secret still, breeding when necessary
      enough to survive even a maximal attrition rate of one per Heir,
      passing the lore to one another to ensure its survival...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One part of Harry's mind was coming up with arguments against
      this, and another was shooting them down. Basilisks didn't breed,
      they were born from chicken eggs hatched beneath toads...so you
      have populations of chickens and toads down there too, and have the
      Basilisks hatch new ones. The crowing of the rooster is fatal to a
      Basilisk...so you place a permanent Quieting Charm over the area
      where the chickens are kept. These Basilisks will need to eat
      something...so you take whatever your plan was for feeding one
      Basilisk for hundreds of years, and multiply it by ten.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some side part of Harry noticed that he was no longer being
      taught spells. He looked up, and saw Slytherin's Monster rocking
      back and forth, a pose Harry identified as <em class="calibre8">thought</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I cannot tesst for the pressence of Falsse Memory Charmss,
      but the length and detailss of the memoriess you have desscribed to
      me could not feassibly be created...my nature makess it imposssible
      to examine you for Legilimency, but that would not be enough to
      fool Ssalazar's cursse, no more than a perfect Occlumenss
      could.."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the serpent bowed its head, and some part of Harry said
      <em class="calibre8">respect</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"From what you have told me, it ssoundss that your time here
      is very limited. Given that, I sshall teach you what I can during
      thiss time, ssave only that, for the ssake of thiss Chamber,
      nothing sshall be revealed about how I ssurvived the Dark Lord'ss
      attack."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Thank you, but I have no idea what I sshould be
      learning."</em> Whether Harry was right or not about how this
      serpent had survived the Dark Lord's attack (that is, it had
      survived by not being here, and a different one of Slytherin's
      Monsters had died instead), it didn't seem like a good idea to ask.
      <em class="calibre8">"Need to attain, ssomehow, power ssufficient to defeat Dark
      Lord before he..."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Basilisk was laughing, a series of short sharp hisses.
      <em class="calibre8">"Foolisshnesss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"What?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Many lesssonss are left here by Ssalazar. Let thiss be the
      firsst, and heed it well, child. Sslytherinss may turn to evil far
      more often than any other Houssess, and yet we are far lesss
      dangerouss when we do."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's confusion must have shown on his face, for the monster
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Sshould a Gryffindor fall to darknesss, they will not be
      sstopped. Nothing sshort of their death will turn a true Gryffindor
      asside from their tassk, even if their tassk is an evil one. But a
      Sslytherin? To turn asside a Dark Lord of Sslytherin, you need not
      defeat him; you need only provide him with ssome
      incentive."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That...that was actually a really good point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the Muggle world Harry came from, a sufficiently rich, famous
      or powerful person could commit almost any crime and get away with
      it. Judges and juries would bend over backwards for them,
      prosecutors would settle out of court. And, in the worst case, they
      could find some reasonably nice country with no US extradition, and
      go hide out there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet, somehow, billionaires very rarely committed murders,
      even though if they killed someone and then jumped on the next
      plane to Dubai they would almost certainly get away with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To keep a billionaire from murdering people, you didn't need to
      defeat him - you didn't need to prevent him from committing the
      murder, or from escaping afterwards. You just needed to incentivize
      him not to commit the murder, to make committing it not his best
      course of action. Oh, a reasonably competent billionaire could kill
      someone and then get away; but he would need to leave the country,
      away from his massive mansion and his five-star chef and his social
      circle, and go live in another country, and he didn't want to do
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry didn't need to defeat Quirrell, he just needed to give
      Quirrell some incentive not to do evil things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was it, that was the problem. That was why Quirrell was
      such a terrifying Dark Lord. It wasn't just that he was the most
      powerful wizard alive, with a vicious cruelty and a Dark
      creativity. The Muggle world had people like that too, and most of
      them wound up being socially neutral at worst.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was that he was so powerful that the wizarding world could
      not impose incentive schemes on him. <em class="calibre8">'You have nothing to
      threaten me with and nothing to offer me'.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had some things he could imagine offering the Dark Lord,
      but they all seemed like bad ideas. Offering to give the Dark Lord
      even more power, in exchange for doing less evil with it...Harry
      wasn't even comfortable calling that Plan B, it needed a letter
      more like P or X.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But in that case...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry looked up at the Monster. <em class="calibre8">"What can you teach me
      of Transsfigurationss?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A flickering of the tongue that somehow managed to convey the
      dry sarcasm Harry more normally associated with Professor Quirrell.
      <em class="calibre8">"Of coursse. Transsfigurations."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"What?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Lissten to me, young Heir, mark my wordss well. I bear
      another messsage from Ssalazar. When firsst an Heir sspeakss to me,
      I am to ssee which magicss they sseek to learn, and sspeak to them
      bassed on that."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"If an Heir sseekss only ssimple sspells, trivialitiess of
      old timess, I am to leave them the reminder that ritualss can work
      far greater magicss, and direct them to ssome ssacrificial ritualss
      that are ssimple, ssafe, ssacrifice very little, and yet produce
      effectss beyond the reach of their magicss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fought back a laugh as he remembered a conversation he'd
      had once with Neville.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"To thosse who sseek immediately the mosst powerful ritualss
      and the Darkesst lore, I am to leave a warning that thesse ritualss
      are dangerouss beyond what they expect, and certain ssuggesstionss
      ass to when it iss truly necesssary to perform a ritual and when
      ssimpler magicss will ssuffice. To thosse who assk me of time, who
      sseek to ravel the ssecretss of Atlantiss and of Time-Turnerss, I
      am to leave insstructionss on how experimentss may ssafely be
      performed without rissking the dissassters that can occur when you
      Messs With Time."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"And to thosse who immediately assk of Transsfiguration, I
      am to leave a single word."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Beware."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He should, perhaps, have been paying more attention to the
      warning, but instead Harry's mind realized something else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If you were wizardborn, Mr. Potter, you would know to take
      it seriously, when a powerful magus tells you only to
      beware.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell had said that, and that was what had finally
      tipped Harry into realizing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Speaking to Slytherin's Monster was almost exactly like speaking
      to Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it was obvious why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell had spent seven years in Hogwarts, <em class="calibre8">surrounded by
      idiots</em> as he put it, with exactly one being he'd consider
      reasonably intelligent to talk to. He'd spent seven years speaking
      to his Basilisk, learning from it, acquiring mannerisms and
      patterns of thought from it, perhaps the closest thing he'd had to
      friendship during those days...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet <span>he had still killed Slytherin's
      Monster.</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some part of Harry had been making excuses for Quirrell,
      reminding Harry of all the times he'd felt contempt towards idiots.
      But when Harry had found someone who actually seemed
      <em class="calibre8">sentient</em>, someone who could actually think for herself,
      someone who could run alongside him, who could match her mind with
      his own, he would never have dreamed of <em class="calibre8">killing</em> her, the
      idea would simply never have crossed his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that just seemed to be the way Quirrell's mind operated. If
      you were intelligent enough to be worth talking to, you were
      intelligent enough to be a threat, and if you were intelligent
      enough to be a threat the way to deal with you was to kill you. Any
      meaningful relationship Quirrell could have, he would expect to be
      temporary, to end violently in the defeat of one side or the
      other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't understand it, didn't understand why, didn't
      understand how someone could think that way, but he knew, now, knew
      with a dawning certainty, that he was going to oppose Lord
      Voldemort, for those two different spirits could not exist in the
      same world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he thought he knew how he would go about it, too.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
