<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>11. The Fallacy of Division By Zero - The Fallacy of Division By Zero, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="11. The Fallacy of Division By Zero"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Title: The Fallacy of Division By Zero<br class="calibre4"/>
      Author: Endless-chan<br class="calibre4"/>
      Genre: Recursive Fanfiction; angst/fantasy.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Rating: PG/K+<br class="calibre4"/>
      Characters/Pairings: Harry-centric, touches on the Harry +
      Voldemort (Quirrel) dynamic.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Warnings: Brief mention of minor character death (Potter
      family).<br class="calibre4"/>
      Spoilers: oh yes - for the Patronus and the Azkaban incident, and
      I'm going with the conclusion that Quirrel=Voldemort, if anyone
      hasn't figured that out yet.<br class="calibre4"/>
      A/N: Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality fic. As for my
      fic, all I have to say is: THEME WHAT THEME. By the way, the math
      doesn't work. At all. That's why it's a fallacy.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Disclaimer: I do not own HP, JKR does; Harry Potter and the Methods
      of Rationality belongs entirely to Less Wrong.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>The Fallacy of Division By Zero</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(All numbers equal other numbers; i.e. 2=1.)</p>
      <span>It takes one to speak a prophecy.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">One seer to make it; one spy to leak it; one fated to carry out
      the end-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. That's not right.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter-Evans-Verres looks out of a telescope and out at
      the stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a second, he bends over a piece of parchment, dipping a
      quill into an inkwell, and starts to sketch out a diagram of the
      sky. Ink blots messily into stars, planets, and the moon; then it
      all gets distributed evenly across the page as the black starts to
      blend into words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Constellations form when Harry connects the celestial bodies
      together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Harry remembers slipping into the cupboard under the stairs
      when it's night, pulling the cord on the light bulb hanging from
      the low ceiling. He remembers stretching across old coats and
      jumpers and boxes and looking up at the dust motes swirling in the
      darkness. Brilliant and beautiful and perfect and so
      <em class="calibre8">distant</em>, just like real stars, and there's no light
      pollution down here to cloud his view and, best strangest worst
      thing of all, <em class="calibre8">you don't need magic for this.</em>)</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A green snake slips into the room, under the crack of the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sss...</em>" it hisses. "<em class="calibre8">Harry, sss...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looks up from his parchment. He says, "<em class="calibre8">Hello,
      Professsor.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake promises him the secrets of the universe: they'll find
      them all together.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It takes one human form of a Patronus to kill a Dementor
      (<em class="calibre8">Death</em>).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It takes that single Patronus humanoid to block the Killing
      Curse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Avada Kedavra: burst of green light brightening the darkness;
      green, the colour of Harry's eyes <em class="calibre8">- you have your mother's
      eyes-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Abracadabra: from the Aramaic language, meaning creation through
      speech - magic. To heal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Double-edged &amp; double-sided-)</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore believes the Azkaban was broken into by either
      Lord Voldemort or Harry Potter-Evans-Verres. In the end, he
      concludes the former. For freeing Bellatrix Black took cunning and
      ruthlessness and very powerful magic, most likely dark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even though the prison indicates traces of mercy as well as
      deception.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer is not one nor the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Who broke into Azkaban?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer is: both.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Rationality blurs into intelligence which blurs into plans which
      blurs into plots which blurs into manipulation which blurs into
      shadow which blurs into darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It's not a foreseen ending.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just a possibility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There are many possibilities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter-Evans-Verres could have grown up with abusive
      stepparents. He could have been less logical, less calculating, and
      could have been sorted into Gryffindor along with Hermoine Granger.
      He would be friends with people like Ron Weasley, making rivals
      with people like Draco Malfoy. He could have stuck to Dumbledore's
      side without a doubt or a protest, heroically fighting the forces
      of darkness. Lord Voldemort would be fought each and every time;
      each and every time, Harry would win-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No. That's not it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It's strange how everything seems to come in threes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Length, width, height. Sine, cosine, tangent. Beginning, middle,
      end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry scoffs and draws an imaginary pyramid with his wand
      (<em class="calibre8">Lumos</em>), trailing words of a non-linear story down its
      faces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Imperio, Crucio, and Avada Kedavra. Seer, spy, fated.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It takes one to speak a prophecy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One seer to make it; one spy to leak it; one fated to-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrel whispers a secret in Harry's ear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(The answer is: both.)</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">They shape the prophecy as gods shape the stars.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">End.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">End Notes: Many thanks to Less Wrong for allowing me to borrow
      his ficverse for this short piece! :)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fallacy basically states that since, say, 0x1=0 &amp; 0x2=0,
      shouldn't, when simplified, 1=2?</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
