<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key - Harry Potter and the cryptographic key Chapter 1: I feel a need for books, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: I feel a need for books</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">The restricted section of the Hogwarts library was,
      unsurprisingly, off limits to students. From under his cloak of
      invisibility Harry observed the fearsome barrier. A couple of poles
      and some half inch diameter rope suspended waist high.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was fearsome, of course, by convention. Because it was
      prohibited. Because Madam Pince, the librarian, may notice if you
      stepped over the rope there without having provided a note signed
      by a professor. Because you might get a severe talking to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was an expert at being reprimanded. He would prefer to
      avoid it, all other things being equal, but at least he was sure
      that even in the madness that was Hogwarts, there would be no
      mortal danger from some tripwire. There was, of course, mortal
      danger in the books, but that was different. Books were Harry's
      friends.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The big question was whether there was more serious security
      than a rope and wandering librarian. In the muggle world,
      blueprints of nuclear bombs had more protection than a piece of
      rope in a school library. And there were potentially magics
      described over there far more destructive than a critical mass of
      uranium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then, security at Hogwarts was a joke. And the true cloak of
      invisibility would bypass most detection charms – at least those
      aimed at detecting people, rather than the movement of books. More
      prosaic detection systems wouldn't be fooled by the cloak. Harry
      had weighed himself while wearing the cloak. Gravity was not fooled
      - the scales showed the same result regardless of whether the cloak
      was hiding him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To make a secure system, there are two approaches. For the
      correct approach, you need to clearly think about what you are
      trying to secure, and all possible attacks. The alternative, more
      popular approach, is to think of one possible attack, and defend
      carefully against that. That is a much simpler, more intuitive
      algorithm, and it leads to multiple strong locks on a door with
      hinges on the outside, or steel reinforced doors adjacent to thin
      glass windows. It leads to keeping Hermione at Hogwarts, for
      <em class="calibre7">safety</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed that his fists were clenched painfully. He
      consciously released them. Think clearly, Harry. You are going to
      do this. Nothing is going to stop you. Not Dumbledore, not whoever
      had killed Hermione, not even death itself. Nothing. Death was the
      enemy, and Harry refused to lose. Relax and think carefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Evidence</em>: Dumbledore's previous behaviour.
      <em class="calibre7">Conclusion</em>: Dumbledore would have taken the popular
      approach. Therefore there was almost certainly a way to bypass
      whatever security the headmaster had set up for the restricted
      section, assuming he could work out what it was he had to bypass.
      But Harry didn't know enough magic to detect what charms Dumbledore
      had used. He would have to guess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hypothesis: The security is aimed at people rather than
      books</em>. How could he test this, while maintaining plausible
      deniability? He could use minions, but that seemed unfair on them.
      Madam Pince was nowhere near. Harry took off his cloak of
      invisibility. Sure, he wore it routinely as a general security
      measure, but the use of it did unfairly prejudice observers if he
      had to protest his innocence. He waited until Madam Pince walked
      past, carrying a couple of books to reshelve. He waved his wand at
      a book he didn't recognise about two metres away in the
      unrestricted section of the library. <em class="calibre7">Accio Book</em>, he cast
      as quietly, as if avoiding disturbing other library patrons. Not
      that there were any at this hour. The book wafted gently over to
      him. Harry caught it – <em class="calibre7">99 popular uses of herbs</em> - in his
      hands, and pretended to read it until Madam Pince was out of sight.
      Then he turned towards the restricted section, chose a book in his
      mind, and cast <em class="calibre7">Accio Book</em> again, bracing for an alarm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The alarm did not come. Neither did the book. Harry sighed, and
      replaced <em class="calibre7">99 popular uses of herbs</em> in its proper spot, and
      put his invisibility cloak back on. That was his least desired
      outcome. If the book had come to him, with no alarms, he would have
      succeeded. If the book had come to him with alarms, then he could
      claim he had just mis-targeted his charm, and he would know more
      about the security system. But now all he knew was that at least
      one charm was blocked somehow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There weren't many other options for him now. He could ask
      Professor Quirrell for a blanket permission slip. But even if the
      defence professor cooperated, it was not clear that this would be a
      long term solution. The restricted section was big. It would take
      him a long time to read enough of them. There would be plenty of
      time for Professor McGonagall or Dumbledore to notice and ask
      questions, and put a stop to it. He could ask Professor Quirrell
      for specific books – or books on certain subjects. That request
      would probably be successful – the defence professor had promised
      to help, after all. But the help may be censored, and Harry would
      have no way of telling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of the books would have a resurrection spell in them. Harry
      was pretty sure about that. Such a spell would hardly be obscure,
      even if it was impractical for most situations. Actually, it was
      surprising that there weren't even any rumours of resurrection
      spells, even if they were no more credible than the philosopher's
      stone ought to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had identified four approaches to resurrecting
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Make up a resurrection spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Make up a "become god" spell, then use godlike power to make up
      a resurrection spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Find the Philosopher's stone, should it actually exist, and work
      out how to use it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All four required more information, which probably wasn't even
      in the restricted stacks, but trying them couldn't hurt. Well, that
      was not exactly true. Sometimes a fresh way of looking at things
      was helpful, whereas reading what other people did would just give
      him a cognitive bias towards the unsuccessful class of approaches
      described in them. Harry's mouth twitched upwards at one side. Not
      looking at things the same way everyone else does was one of his
      core competencies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time was passing, Hermione's brain would be very slowly losing
      coherence, and someone was targeting his friends. It was time to
      try a riskier approach. Harry picked five particularly boring books
      from the unrestricted section, and then checked that the cloak was
      covering him. It was. He poked a foot under the rope barrier. "I
      was just sitting down here to read this book, and moved to be
      comfortable and accidentally stuck my leg under the rope" was
      somewhat plausible, if not convincing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No alarm seemed to be going off. Harry waited there carefully
      for five minutes. Madam Pince did not come around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put the cloak back on, rolled his whole body through, and
      padded over to the bookcases. He skimmed over the titles – too
      many, too many – and chose five that may conceivably have something
      to do with spell creation. He replaced them with books of roughly
      the same size from the collection he had brought over from the
      unrestricted section. Lastly he padded back to the rope, under it,
      and back to the unrestricted side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The piercing sound of alarms did not fill the library. That was
      worryingly easy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat down to browse the first of his liberated books,
      "Magical Catastrophes"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Several minutes later, Harry had started on the fourth book,
      "Dark rituals for fun and profit". All three previous ones had
      passed the "worth studying in detail" test, although it was hard to
      tell for sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He jumped when he heard Professor McGonagall's voice a couple of
      metres behind him. "Mr. Potter. Please show me what you are
      reading. Now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still under the cloak, Harry quickly stuffed "Dark rituals for
      fun and profit" back into his pouch with the others, and pulled out
      "Magical Catastrophes". That would be easier to explain. Then he
      took off his cloak and turned around towards her. He held out the
      forbidden book. She glanced at the title, and coldly said "Please
      come back with me to my office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked in uncomfortable silence, Professor McGonagall
      holding the book. When they eventually arrived in her office, she
      indicated at the guest chair with her wand, and sat in her own. She
      fixed him with a sad stare that hurt Harry more than any reprimand
      could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The centaurs believe that I am going to unintentionally cause a
      catastrophe," he said before she could start the conversation
      elsewhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you decided to do it intentionally instead? Or were you
      just curious about how you would do it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Harry paused "Well, yes, of course I was curious, but that
      is entirely incidental. I want to know how not to cause a
      catastrophe. For that I need to know what not to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most people manage to get through their whole lives without
      causing a catastrophe. Most of them would even say that 'don't do
      things that are forbidden as they are dangerous' is a good first
      step to not causing a catastrophe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But most people do not already have the centaurs prophesising
      that they will cause a catastrophe. Professor Quirrell is
      independently worried. For me to avoid disaster, I need to actively
      do something different."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you think that obeying the carefully considered rules
      would count as different for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's… not a bad point." Harry shrunk back into his seat.
      <em class="calibre7">They may be carefully considered, but that doesn't mean they
      are sensible. But it also doesn't mean they are not. Why do I never
      think of the obvious, non-Harry-plan-centric view?</em> Then he
      realised, and sat back up. "Sorry, forget that. It is a bad point.
      That is the sort of thinking that got Hermione killed." Professor
      McGonagall flinched. "I <em class="calibre7">need</em> to be able to defend my
      friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More than you <em class="calibre7">need</em> to prevent a catastrophe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I know the road to hell is paved in good intentions, but…
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you are different?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! Yes! I am a scientist. I am rational. I understand that a
      small chance of disaster is not negligible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't make mistakes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time it was Harry who flinched. "The more information I
      have, the better decisions I can make."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think that is true, Harry. If you don't know how to
      destroy the world, then you generally can't effectually decide to
      do so. If you have the information on how to destroy the world,
      then you can make a really bad decision."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I already know how to destroy the world! That's easy!"
      Harry realized how bad that sounded. "I mean, not as such, but I am
      sure I could come up with a couple of avenues for exploration given
      some thought. Destruction is easy. I could create a paradox with my
      time turner somehow, for instance." Harry kicked himself when he
      saw Professor McGonagall staring pensively at his chest where his
      time turner lay. "Not that I would, of course. Remember how
      terrified I was of it when you first gave it to me. There are lots
      of other ways. I could transfigure a huge pile of nuclear weapons.
      Or antimatter. Destruction is easy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are not reassuring me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I would have to be insane to do any of those things!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many people in this school believe you to be sane,
      Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But they are all wrong. Sure, many people think that I am mad
      because I behave rationally rather than following a script, but
      that is actually evidence of sanity. The people who really know me
      know that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The people who really know you are concerned about how
      Hermione's death has affected you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh." Harry deflated. In his heart he knew that the hypothesis
      <em class="calibre7">Harry has gone insane</em> was not one he could categorically
      rule out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if you knew some powerful, dangerous magic, can you say
      with absolute certainty that you would not have used it in the
      battle against the troll, under time pressure, with your best
      friend bleeding to death in front of you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, we give <em class="calibre7">transfiguration</em> texts to first year
      students. The restricted books are <em class="calibre7">really dangerous</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence stretched on for a while. "Thank you," said Harry at
      last. "Thank you for not just telling me off for being a naughty
      boy. Thank you for going off script and trying to give me useful
      advice and reasonable arguments. Thank you for treating me as an
      adult. That means so much to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does that mean I have convinced you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Harry slowly. "No, I cannot say that I am convinced.
      But neither am I convinced of my own position any more. I need to
      think about this for a while. Ummm. I have something to ask your
      opinion on. About my sanity. I want to see if you agree with
      Professor Quirrell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to resurrect Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Impossible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, I phrased that incorrectly. I intend to resurrect
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Intention doesn't make it possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, I phrased that incorrectly. I will resurrect
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry – I understand what it is like to lose a friend. But
      many, many wise and powerful magi have tried and failed. It is not
      possible. Believing it is possible is not sanity. Has Professor
      Quirrell been encouraging you?" Her voice was much sharper for the
      last question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. He has been working hard to discourage me. He agrees with
      you that it is impossible, and I am mad to try. Actually, he thinks
      I am mad to want to do so, but that's just his issues showing. But
      not trying just because something is said to be impossible is
      wrong. Remember the partial transfiguration?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do. Whenever I feel insufficiently terrified, I solve that
      problem by thinking of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got so many things I <em class="calibre7">need</em> to do," said Harry in a
      steadily rising voice. I <em class="calibre7">need</em> to defend my friends against
      whoever is targeting them. I <em class="calibre7">need</em> to defeat you-know-who,
      should he still actually be alive. To do that I probably
      <em class="calibre7">need</em> to find out what power I have that the dark lord
      knows not. I <em class="calibre7">need</em> to destroy the blight that is Azkhaban.
      And I desperately <em class="calibre7">need</em> to not cause a catastrophe in the
      process. I <em class="calibre7">need</em> to save the world from lots of problems it
      generally is unaware it has. I <em class="calibre7">need</em> to not die before
      doing all these things. I <em class="calibre7">need</em> to not make any mistakes."
      His voice suddenly became quiet. "But there is just one thing that
      I <em class="calibre7">want</em>. I <em class="calibre7">want</em> to resurrect Hermione. Oh, and the
      defence professor too. Not that he is dead yet, but that should
      make fixing him easier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva looked at the first year with tenderness. So much we
      demand of him. So little we can offer him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know if there is anything I could do to help, I would. But
      there isn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But there is. I am going to get the power that the dark lord
      knows not. I am going to learn how to do the impossible – at least
      what he thinks is impossible. Everyone says that he is clever, so
      if he thinks something is inconceivable then probably most others
      do to. I have the power to conceive the inconceivable – yes, I
      understand that one could argue that is evidence that I am insane -
      but I need help. Concrete example: can I run any ideas that I come
      up with by you, as a sanity check?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And will you promise to take them seriously, and acknowledge
      the necessity of doing <em class="calibre7">something</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall paused. It was not that the request was
      unreasonable, she just wanted to convince herself that she would
      actually be able to follow through with it. She finally replied,
      "Yes, as long as you promise to take my warnings seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfectly fair. I so promise. By the way, Professor Quirrell
      also promised to help me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After trying hard to dissuade me from my resolve to resurrect
      Hermione, he offered to help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By getting me information, among other things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why didn't you get him to get you the restricted books?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't trust him. I don't trust him not to censor them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall paused, and said in a hesitating manner,
      "You have reason. I don't know if I should be saying this but… ten
      minutes ago it was he who told me you had gone into the restricted
      section of the library. He said it would be more effective for me
      to tell you off than him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What! Why is <em class="calibre7">he</em> doing security for the restricted
      section?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He recently added some of his own security. He is afraid of
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What</em>? Professor <em class="calibre7">Quirrell</em> is afraid of
      <em class="calibre7">me</em>? He is absurdly powerful and smart and creative and
      devious and paranoid. He shouldn't be afraid of
      <em class="calibre7">anyone</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, half the people who know you are afraid of you, and the
      other half are foolish. Or Griffindors." She paused, reflecting.
      "Foolish Griffindors. You successfully threatened some of the most
      powerful wizards in Britain at the Wizardgamot… and they had no
      idea of your true potential. Even dementors are scared of you. You
      calmly dismiss the threat of you know who. I, the head of
      Griffindor house, I am afraid of you, and I trust you to be well
      intentioned towards me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's face had grown steadily more horrified as she spoke.
      Minerva started speaking again. "Suppose you decided that you
      really wanted the defence professor dead. How long would he
      live?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Less than a day</em>, Harry thought as he considered the
      muggle materials he had got the Weasley twins to procure for him.
      "But I like him. I approve of life. I want to make the world a
      better place. I only want to destroy evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even so, would you ever think the ends justify the means?" It
      was obvious from Harry's expression what the answer was. She didn't
      wait for him to answer it. "But he is not, I think, worried about
      you actively going after him. He is worried about the mistakes you
      might make. Mistakes that humanity would not survive. Tell me
      Harry. Who scares you the most?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the floor. He wanted to say the person targeting
      Hogwarts students. But that was not true. They were a minor threat.
      Once identified, he was pretty confident he could neutralize them
      somehow… probably by telling Dumbledore who it was. Or the defence
      professor if it were Dumbledore. Look at it impartially - what
      would the sorting hat say. That didn't need much thought. There was
      only one person he truly feared. "Myself," he said in a small
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In your first few week at school you threatened myself,
      Professor Snape, and even the headmaster. They you started new
      research in transfiguration. Now you are searching the restricted
      section of the library. Am I wrong to be afraid of you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry suddenly straightened. She could see the self-confidence
      returning to him. "No, you are perfectly right to be afraid. So is
      Professor Quirrell. It is just that the idea of him being afraid is
      like the idea of Snape having a beloved pet bunny rabbit called
      Flopsy. I was distracted by the absurdity. You are correct to be
      afraid of me, but you should be even more afraid of a world without
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean because of you-know-who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, he is harmless compared to my real enemy. I mean death. It
      is not me you are scared of directly. It is not even what I might
      do. It is death you are scared of. Not for yourself, maybe, but for
      everyone. You are scared that I might cause everyone to die.
      Similarly, you are not scared of you know who. You are scared of
      the death and misery to many that he could bring. True?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but I don't think the distinction is anything other than
      pedantry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You fear death. That is the point. Consider that if I don't do
      something about it, you will die, as will everyone you know and
      care about. It may be an accident that gets them, or malice, or
      merely old age. But they will all die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused for rhetorical impact, but started again before
      Minerva could interject. "I do not <em class="calibre7">fear</em> death. I
      <em class="calibre7">hate</em> death. I consider death to be an enemy to be
      vanquished. That is why the dementors fear me. I may not succeed,
      but if I fail others like me – and just as scary as me - will
      continue the fight. Eventually one of us will win, and humanity
      will look back on the era of death as a dystopia of fear and
      misery. You are right to be scared of me, but you should be even
      more scared of that which I will fight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall stared at Harry for almost a minute. Then
      she smiled. "If Gryffindor himself were here, I believe he would
      applaud. I am not him." Suddenly fire burned in her eyes. "But I
      have just decided to do something very Griffindor. I am about to do
      something ridiculously brave and stupid because my heart says it is
      the right thing to do. I am going to give you free access to the
      restricted section of the library, as long as you solemnly promise
      to run anything you come up with as a result by me. Do you so
      promise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do. I swear by my love for humanity to sanity check any ideas
      I get from the restricted section by you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They talked for a while longer, about how to bypass Professor
      Quirrell's alarms. They settled on the obvious solution. Professor
      McGonagall would just get them for Harry, one bunch at a time.
      Harry requested ones related to disasters, healing, and the
      philosopher's stone. Minerva flinched slightly at the mention of
      the stone, but didn't say anything. Harry decided it was the wrong
      time to press.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked back to his dorm somewhat happily. Professor
      McGonagall was off script. The world was good. As long as he was
      sane, that is. If not… the world was in trouble.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
