<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key - Harry Potter and the cryptographic key Chapter 3: My Precious, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: My Precious</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Before playing with his new toy, Harry wanted to check that is
      was safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had briefly been concerned merely by the claimed function.
      This is a device that alters - ostensibly improves - how your
      <em class="calibre7">brain</em> works. Harry was quite proud of his brain, and was
      rather attached to it. The potential side effects were terrifying,
      let alone personality change. But, frankly, that wasn't going to
      stop him using it. Not if it could help him save Hermione. Besides,
      he hoped that Rowena Ravenclaw was wise enough on the occupational
      health and safety front, although the artefact <em class="calibre7">did</em> end up
      in a tree in Albania, if the defence professor could be
      trusted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What he was really concerned about was the possibility of dark
      magic being overlaid. Well, clearly there was some dark magic
      already there, possibly a Lord Voldemort Horcrux, but that could be
      a blind. The defence professor had shown strong evidence of wanting
      to manipulate Harry down a particular path. He presumably couldn't
      use direct mind control magic on Harry for the same reason their
      magic didn't seem to work on each other. If the defence professor
      were out to control Harry, then a subverted mind controlling
      artefact that would be irresistible to Harry would be difficult to
      top as a perfect trap. And that was ignoring the possibility of a
      genuine Lord Voldemort Horcrux on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The feeling of doom that Harry got around the artefact didn't
      help either. Actually, it did. Suppose that the defence professor
      was correct about the Horcrux. Suppose further that the feeling of
      doom was associated with the Horcrux. Suppose that the reason the
      feelings of doom were similar was because the defence professor
      also had – or was – a Lord Voldemort Horcrux. Possibly Quirinus
      Quirrell had triggered a Horcrux, and been possessed by Lord
      Voldemort, or at least partly so. That was a lot of suppositions –
      a stiff complexity penalty should be applied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What would the mixture of a maybe decent person and Lord
      Voldemort be? If the defence professor was correct about himself
      being part possessed by Lord Voldemort, then Harry was an example
      of the species. There were a lot of ways that could go. It
      certainly was not inconsistent with the defence professor's power,
      personality, and mysterious past.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook himself. Such speculation was important, but he had
      a shiny toy to play with. For all his misgivings, it took immense
      self control to not put it on <em class="calibre7">right now</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore would be the obvious person to ask about it, but
      Harry was somewhat leery of trusting him. Furthermore, Professor
      McGonagall deserved trust, and positive reinforcement. It was to
      her offices that he ran. After thirty seconds, he jumped on his
      broomstick. The less time he took to get to her office, the less
      time he had to resist putting it on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fortunately she was in his office, and called him in when he
      knocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry! Don't tell me you have finished that set already?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sorry. I can't read that fast. Let along absorb and think
      about it. No, the defence professor just gave me the most powerful
      magical artefact I have ever heard of... and I want you to check it
      for booby traps."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked up in shock. "He gave you the elder wand? Not the
      Philospher's Stone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, way beyond them." He brought out the diadem.
      "<em class="calibre7">Rowena</em>'s artefact. Mind magic has the greatest potential
      for ... umm... greatness." Harry couldn't understand why everyone
      else didn't see this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall accepted the proffered piece of jewellery.
      It did indeed look like the pictures, and a cursory scan indicated
      that it was indeed endowed with significant magic. "This will take
      some time. It would probably be better to take to the headmaster,
      you know. He could do a better job than me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I trust him 95%. I trust you 100%. Please go ahead, I'll
      wait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva was shocked at the effect of his offhand declaration of
      trust towards her. She had lost much of her never particularly high
      trust in herself over Hermione's death. She had come to trust many
      of Harry's judgements - at least the ones that were not
      self-centred - and it appeared that he trusted her. Unlike
      Dumbledore, Harry wouldn't say it just to make her feel better. For
      the first time in her life, she thought that she might actually
      make a decent headmistress when and if her time came. She snorted
      to herself. It was pretty pathetic that such validation should come
      from a first year student.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She focussed on her work. First task was to determine if it were
      genuine. That was relatively easy. After only a minute and a half
      she looked up and informed him that she was quite sure it was the
      true diadem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Searching for booby traps was more difficult. First a simple
      search for dark magic. Oh. "I have some bad news. There is some
      very powerful dark charm on the diadem. It is not part of the
      original enchantment. I will attempt to determine what it is." She
      spent another ten minutes, trying test after test. "The bad news is
      that I can't identify it for sure. It doesn't seem to <em class="calibre7">do</em>
      anything. I suspect that it may be a Horcrux. We should really take
      this to the headmaster. He has more knowledge of Horcruxes than
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought you might say that. The defence professor warned me
      that he thought it had a you-know-who Horcrux on it. He claimed
      that it was unlikely to ensnare me. I didn't want to prejudice your
      examination by telling you in advance. Although if it looked as if
      you were about to put it on, I would have stopped you, of
      course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Despite this, you are still considering it? Can you imagine how
      terrible it would be if you were to become his host? Possibly that
      is what the prophecy meant by '<em class="calibre7">EITHER MUST DESTROY ALL BUT A
      REMNANT OF THE OTHER.'</em> Could its power possibly be worth the
      risk?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know. That is why I am asking you about it. It depends
      how big the risk it, versus the potential gain of giving me a
      significant advantage in a later confrontation with
      you-know-who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva considered it carefully. "This is beyond my area of
      expertise. I strongly recommend that we go to see the
      headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am happy to go to Professor Dumbledore then. Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't finished yet. I've checked for dark magic, but not
      for superficially harmless charms that could have less innocent
      uses. Give me a few more minutes." Before returning to the task she
      asked a witch in a painting behind her to see if the headmaster was
      in and free. She continued experimenting. By the time the witch had
      returned to her painting she had finished. There were no other
      charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The headmaster was indeed available, so they proceeded directly
      to his office. The door to the spiral staircase opened as they
      approached, the stairs twisting upwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed when he saw the two of them. "It is a bad sign
      when the two of you show up in my office," he greeted them.
      "Historically, at least. What has happened this time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall replied, "Actually, it is quite good news."
      One of Dumbledore's eyebrows rose. "Harry was given Rowena's diadem
      by the defence professor. He asked me to check it for traps. I am
      convinced that it is genuine, but it has a strong black charm on
      it. I have suspicions as to its nature, but I would like your
      opinion too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva handed the diadem to the headmaster. She watched him
      study it, noting many of the same spells she had used.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is a Horcrux. Almost certainly Voldemort's," he finally
      concluded. "This <em class="calibre7">is</em> excellent news. We can destroy it, and
      that will be one step closer to his end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," interjected Harry in alarm. "At least not until we have
      considered the alternatives. Unless - are you talking about just
      destroying the Horcrux, or the whole artefact?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The whole artefact, I am afraid, Harry. A Horcrux is too
      powerful to do otherwise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Ravenclaw's diadem is the most useful item known to
      humanity!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Disposing of one of Voldemort's Horcruxes is of immense use to
      humanity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could we hold off for a little, please? Does the Horcrux pose a
      direct threat to the wearer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not believe it does. But Voldemort only has a small number
      of Horcruxes. The destruction of a single one would be valuable.
      Voldemort will only be genuinely dead when all are destroyed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It doesn't make sense," interjected Harry suddenly. "The diadem
      is a dumb place for a Horcrux."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why so?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it is easy to notice and destroy, and hard to safeguard.
      More importantly, it is such a useful artefact that the possessor
      would want to wear it. A Horcrux, on the other hand, should be
      stored far away from its creator for redundancy purposes. It just
      doesn't make sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the contrary, it makes perfect sense," said the headmaster.
      "A Horcrux can be a trap. An unwary person might find a diadem, and
      put it on. This could trigger the Horcrux to take over their mind.
      So it makes sense to put it on a powerful artefact as it is a
      greater temptation to put it on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at his precious with some trepidation. "Is that an
      automatic property of a Horcrux, or does it need some other
      trigger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It needs some other trigger. I couldn't find any traces of such
      a trigger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So it is a stupid place," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," suggested Minerva, "Maybe the other ones are in
      sensible places, and this one is in a stupid place to confuse us?
      Or maybe there was such a trigger, but the defence professor
      removed it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Albus nodded weakly, acknowledging plausibility
      without being totally convinced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was meanwhile thinking about the Voyager spacecraft, and
      what an ideal Horcrux it would make, assuming some alien could
      trigger it. And Professor Quirrell had almost owned up to doing so,
      assuming of course that he was also a Voldemort mixture. "So there
      is little point destroying this one until we have found the
      others?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Destroying this one now would prevent us ever losing it," said
      Minerva pensively. "But there are alternatives. Albus, could you
      put a charm on it that would enable us to find it later if it were
      stolen?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably," allowed the headmaster dubiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, is your magic powerful enough to reach the planet
      Mars," asked Harry suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," said Albus, looking strangely at Harry. "Not even the
      moon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think any other wizard has magic that could reach that
      far?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would be exceedingly surprised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know the muggles have had several spacecraft fly far beyond
      Mars. Ones that are never coming back. Ones that are unlikely to
      encounter anything as big as a speck of dust for the next billion
      years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The headmaster and deputy stared at Harry in horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am sorry, Harry," said the headmaster finally. "If Voldemort
      is unkillable, and the prophecy says one of you and he are doomed
      to die, and the signs are showing that the battle is
      imminent..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be defeatist," said Professor McGonagall briskly.
      "Firstly, if all of you know who is destroyed other than one
      Horcrux in deep space, then maybe that counts as `all but a remnant
      of'. In fact, that may fit the prophecy more than anything likely
      to happen to Harry. Furthermore, even if he keeps living, if his
      presence is with the spacecraft, it will be a long way away from
      anywhere he could do harm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't like that idea. It was an argument for the
      destruction of the diadem. "There are other interpretations. I
      could be left in a coma, in a vegetable state. That could be
      construed as `all but a remnant of.' Furthermore, I could always go
      and bring the spacecraft back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other two looked at him in astonishment. "How would you
      propose to do that," asked the headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know. But it is physically possible. I can't think of
      any particularly moral ways of doing it off hand - I could always
      imperious the muggle leaders of various countries and get them to
      mount a retrieval operation. But the cost would be stupendous. Even
      ignoring the unforgivable nature of the imperious charm, it would
      cost trillions of pounds - much more than the entire wealth of
      magical Britain. That money, spent on hospitals, would save the
      life of hundreds of thousands of people. That is not an acceptable
      solution. But maybe given time," <em class="calibre7">and the diadem</em>, "I can
      come up with a better solution. I'm just saying it is hard but not
      impossible. In the mean time, we should use whatever weapons we
      have, and my best weapon is my mind." He nodded towards the diadem.
      <em class="calibre7">And there is my precious</em>. I haven't even put it on, and
      still the power it may give me is irresistible, despite the clear
      danger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The headmaster stared at him intently for several seconds.
      "Harry, can you imagine any reason why you would want to tear apart
      the very stars in heaven?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For energy," said Harry promptly. "Possibly for building
      materials. Most of the universe's accessible mass is probably in
      stars. Eventually humanity will want to use that mass more
      productively than just fusing it and radiating it indiscriminately.
      But that would be spread over billions of years at the
      earliest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How about ending the world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a little harder. We could want to use the mass to build
      a Dyson sphere. That is, a huge sphere surrounding the sun with
      radius similar to the earth's orbit. It would have a surface area
      absurdly larger than the earth - lots of room for vast numbers of
      humans. It would make all the sun's output accessible. We will need
      that room and energy for the population explosion after I conquer
      death." He paused, and frowned. "But we would not have to make it
      exactly in earth's orbit, probably. A little outside, and we could
      adjust albedos so that the temperature was fine. Then we could use
      other planets, and keep the earth as a place to live on while we
      are making it. I would quite like to keep the earth afterwards
      anyway, as a souvenir of our ancestry. Maybe we would have to
      dismantle it to make the system stable. I don't know the maths of
      that offhand. Whatever, it is probably negligible compared to other
      structural problems involved in cosmic engineering, and vastly
      simpler than tearing the stars apart." <em class="calibre7">Even the Pak only built
      a ringworld</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva stared at him. It was the matter of fact way he said it
      that unnerved her, as if he were describing a change of room for
      some class. Albus was still watching him dubiously. <em class="calibre7">What made
      him ask</em>, she wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think that Harry should be able to make the most use of his
      weapon," she said. "In fact, I think it appropriate than he should
      put the diadem on now, while we are here watching and capable of
      responding appropriately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry needed no more urging. He held out his hand, the
      headmaster handed it to him somewhat reluctantly, he closed his
      eyes and put it on his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing much seemed to happen. But Harry was short of input at
      the moment. He opened his eyes. At first everything seemed normal.
      He turned around and then he realised that he now remembered
      perfectly everything he had seen since putting the diadem on.
      Furthermore, as he gazed at the weird and wonderful contraptions
      around the headmaster's office, he guessed the functionality of two
      that had stumped him on prior visits.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It works," said Harry, with a grin. The headmaster cast a few
      more charms on Harry - they seemed to be for sensing, and Harry
      could now remember in enough detail that he could probably
      reproduce them, although he had no idea how to interpret the
      results. Presumably the headmaster was checking that the dark charm
      had not activated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The dark charm seems quiet," said the headmaster. "You may not
      be able to see, but the diadem gave off a faint reddish glow when
      you put it on. I expect that is a result of its ordinary operation.
      Apparently when Rowena was wearing it there was a bright blue
      glow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So it did not work quite as well for him as it did for the
      person whom it was designed for. Maybe it would improve with
      practice. Regardless, anything that improved his ability to think
      was priceless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an obvious experiment to do. Harry took off the
      diadem. His flawless memory vanished as he did so. He still had
      some sense of what had passed while he was wearing the diadem, in
      fact it seemed a little better than he would normally remember.
      Harry smiled. "It is a wonderful device. Could you please add the
      locating charm, headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He handed the diadem back to the headmaster, who waved his wand
      over it, then over a gem taken out of a drawer on the side of his
      desk. "I have made a bond to this gem. While I have the gem, I will
      be able to track the diadem. But please try not to lose it, Harry.
      We <em class="calibre7">will</em> have to destroy it at some point." He handed the
      diadem back to Harry, who instantly put it on his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," said Harry, "I need to think for a while."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
