<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key - Harry Potter and the cryptographic key Chapter 6: Lack of experience, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Lack of experience</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Elsewhen</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom mastered his instinctive nausea as Myrtle fell down, slain
      by the Basilisk. Slain by the will, if not the hand of Tom Riddle,
      precocious and very ambitious student. He hadn't planned this
      sufficiently in advance. He could think of two rituals to power
      with her death. Creating a Horcrux, say into his diary was the
      obvious choice – first get immortality, then he will have time for
      everything else. But. But it was important to get the Horcruxes
      perfect, and he wasn't absolutely sure about it. He needed more
      knowledge, more intelligence first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So it would have to be the other way round. Knowledge and
      intelligence first. He used her death to summon the largest nearby
      intelligence of the dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It came from somewhere unrecognisable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was <em class="calibre7">strong</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Present</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The defence professor felt the power flowing into him. The
      missing part of Tom Riddle that had been lodged in Harry
      bifurcated. The smaller part went back in time; the larger part
      flowed directly to the defence professor in the present. He felt
      <em class="calibre7">strong</em>. The fragment had flourished in Harry's fertile
      mind and was far greater than the amount lost when his Lord
      Voldemort puppet burned in the Harry Potter fiasco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The small amount of decency that the venal Quirinus Quirrell had
      provided was swamped by the strength of Tom's reascending
      personality. Even thirty seconds ago, the defence professor had
      been unsure if he could fully go through with his plan. Those
      doubts were gone. His fondness for the child at his feet was
      swamped by the anger at people who had not looked up to David
      Monroe. People who thought more highly of a baby saved by a time
      loop than of a grown man actively putting himself in harm's way
      again and again to protect the ungrateful wretches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fell forward, unconscious. The professor cast
      <em class="calibre7">enervate</em> at him. It worked. Harry crawled to his knees.
      The professor had been fairly sure that the time loop would be
      fully resolved now, and that the immunity Harry had possessed to
      his magic would be gone, but it was a relief to have it actually
      shown correct. He smiled. In minutes he would be in Harry's body -
      the body of the popular hero that the Monroe puppet never was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just in case, Tom, as he now thought of himself, cast a powerful
      <em class="calibre7">finite incantatem</em> at Harry. There was a tiny chance the
      boy would retain enough sentience to repeat a previous trick. The
      gem on Harry's ring rapidly grew into the large rock it was
      naturally. As he suspected, but had not been sure of, the ring
      itself turned into Hermione's half eaten corpse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a bang and a flash, and Dumbledore was there,
      McGonagall by his side. The wards had been triggered. Tom smiled.
      All part of the plan. There would be a big battle; Dumbledore would
      kill the new Lord Voldemort and Bellatrix Black, cementing his
      reputation and power. McGonagall would be witness. Unknown to her,
      the real Tom Riddle would now be inside Harry Potter. Then Harry
      and Dumbledore together would rule Britain with strength.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom hesitated a fraction of a second. It had taken him a long
      time to persuade Dumbledore that this was the best possible outcome
      for the world. Ironically it had been easier to persuade Harry of
      the necessity for his sacrifice to stabilize the time loop than it
      was for Dumbledore. Hermione's death had almost put Dumbledore off
      script too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had taken letting Dumbledore freely root through his brain to
      persuade him that it was all true, and that his intention was to
      honour the agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Tom was no longer as conscience bound as the entity
      Dumbledore had read the brain of. The thing was, Tom didn't
      absolutely need Dumbledore. And he would be much safer in a
      Dumbledore free world. While Dumbledore and McGonagall were raising
      their wands, Tom cast <em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em> at Dumbledore in half
      the time that Lord Voldemort had ever publically demonstrated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's hand had reappeared, having presumably been under his
      invisibility cloak. It was holding an artefact of vast power. The
      philosopher's stone, it must be. Not a threat. His lips were
      whispering something. Not important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall though had reacted faster than Tom had anticipated.
      Half a second was all that was needed for the transfiguration
      expert to convert Tom's wand into a pumpkin. Tom didn't waste time
      castigating himself. He physically punched her, hard, and she went
      down, winded. Tom fell with her, pinning her wand arm and
      preventing a follow through. On the ground near Harry he grabbed
      the wand, twin to his original, from Harry's unresisting hand.
      Harry was saying something like "Becomus" Tom turned back to the
      somewhat stunned Minerva. He needed her to survive, to be a witness
      to Lord Voldemort losing to Harry Potter again. But he couldn't
      have her interfering. With Harry's wand he cast a binding spell on
      her from point blank range.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom spun back around to Harry, who had just finished saying
      something like "Goddus". The philosopher's stone beeped and
      announced "Insufficient experience points error." Harry screamed
      "No!" in horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The philosopher's stone wasn't totally finished. A beam shone
      out to each of the people – or bodies – around it. Tom tried to
      defend, but it went through all his shields. Then he stopped
      worrying. He felt great! All the accumulated damage from a lifetime
      of black rituals had vanished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Study later. Fight now. He cast an absurdly strong
      <em class="calibre7">Imperius</em> on Harry before further things went wrong, and
      looked around. Bellatrix was standing tall. He smiled to see it.
      McGonagall had recovered from her binding spell and had started
      some invocation. No problem. He bound her again, faster than he
      could have even five seconds ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To his bigger surprise, Dumbledore and Hermione were also
      recovering from their death. Dumbledore was not fast enough,
      though. Before he had picked up his wand, Tom killed him again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom turned to Harry. Hermione living again was a great
      opportunity for Tom to crush what remained of Harry's mind. It
      would make taking over his body easy. "Kill Hermione," he
      ordered.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
