<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key - Harry Potter and the cryptographic key Chapter 8: The end of the world, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="32. Harry Potter and the cryptographic key"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: The end of the world</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Nicolas Flamel looked at his watch. If his memory was correct,
      the battle should be over by now. At last the heartbreaking
      millennia of limited intervention were over; the children were
      safely gone and he did not have to be paranoid about paradoxes, at
      least from them. If all went well there would be just one more big
      time trip, creating magic. He realised he was procrastinating, and
      waved a very old wand over the watch; it turned into a blood red
      gem with an array of imperfections in the middle. "Becomus Goddus,"
      he whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stone immediately beeped. "Invalid hairstyle error," it
      announced in the voice of his childhood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What!" exclaimed the wise old mage, losing his equanimity for
      the first time in centuries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, as he still thought of her, laughed. "You must have
      forgotten how obnoxious you can be." There was no barb in her
      voice… she knew he did nothing but mean well. She waved her wand at
      her husband, and his hairstyle changed to that he wore when he
      first met her on the train to Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just kidding!" Added the stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sun dimmed for seven minutes, and then the new deity looked
      up and smiled. Destroying death would take huge magical resources,
      but enough would be freed by a new interdict stopping time travel.
      This would have the side benefit of preventing the universe from
      vanishing in a paradox.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The centaurs were the first to notice the change. They looked up
      at points of light in the sky with horror. There was no information
      travelling back in time through them; they were no longer stars as
      far as prophecy was concerned. They were merely far off masses of
      fusing plasma.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seven human seers suddenly broke off in the middle of their
      prophecy of an imminent end of the world. They were left with a
      puzzled feeling that their world <em class="calibre7">had</em> actually ended,
      although it certainly seemed to be still present when they looked
      with their prosaic eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the Hall of Prophecy, shelves full of glowing orbs
      darkened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But there was light too. In Azkaban it was the brightest, and
      when it dimmed, there were no dementors left.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Authors note:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Technically the title should be "Harry Potter and the
      Cryptographic Quality Key", as there is no actual cryptography
      involved; just a key that has many of the properties of many
      cryptographic keys. But that sounds clumsy, as does "Harry Potter
      and the eight thousand random bits".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you like this I have some original fiction at fictionpress, a
      hard Sci-Fi novel called "Artie", with mostly rational
      characters.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
