<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TEN, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: Another chapter for your
      reading and reviewing pleasure. Thanks for all the reviews and keep
      the feedback coming.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The two Blacks and two Bones all exchanged looks. The guests
      looked mortified while the hosts were doing everything in their
      power not to laugh or give in to the temptation to high-five each
      other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius caught Harry's eye and shrugged. "After your accusations
      of robbing the cradle, can you blame me for shagging such a
      vivacious cougar?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced and translated, "I'm sure that was meant as a
      compliment, Madame Bones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia had been taking it as a compliment until Harry had called
      her Madame and shattered her illusions that the cougar reference
      didn't have anything to do with her age. She addressed her niece.
      "This shouldn't be awkward, Susan. You're a grown woman."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have to tell me twice," Harry agreed before he could
      stop himself. "Sorry. My mind's been in the gutter since Susan
      asked for my pants sausage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Susan exclaimed while checking out Sirius and resisting
      the impulse to flash her auntie a big thumbs up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See? I did it again." Harry said happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia found herself fighting a smile. "You did that on purpose,
      Lord Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, call me Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amy is fine casually, Harry, but if I ever find out you hurt
      Susan, I'd prefer that you remember me as the Director of Magical
      Law Enforcement," she said while calmly flipping through the Daily
      Prophet. She saw Harry was hesitant to respond. "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amy, I, umm…" Harry kept his eyes pointed upward. "Susan, you
      want to tackle this one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your boobs are coming out, Auntie."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have to tell me twice," Sirius exclaimed sitting down
      at the table while Amelia hastily covered up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The four proceeded to have stilted conversation, awkward
      silences, and mocking playful barbs back and forth. It started when
      Sirius passed on the juice and exclaimed he was suddenly in the
      mood for milk. Amelia then got a cup of coffee and when asked how
      she took her coffee replied anything but black. Because apparently
      she tried black and found it unsatisfactory. Harry then passed his
      eggs and bacon to Sirius deciding it felt like a fresh melon kind
      of morning. Susan took a second helping of sausage because
      sometimes one just isn't enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius tried a bite of Harry's melon and indicated it was too
      ripe for him. He claimed he didn't like his melon so freshly
      plucked, preferring it a bit aged, once it's softer and more
      flavorful. This was when the tension broke due to the fact that
      Sirius' mouth was a step ahead of his brain and he kept using the
      word <em class="calibre8">breast</em> instead of <em class="calibre8">melon</em> among others.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia couldn't take it when Sirius asked her to pass the bacon
      and the penis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A couple of frenzied, goodbye shags later and the two Lord
      Blacks were alone at Grimmauld Place. Harry was giving Sirius an
      earful in the muggle room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What were you thinking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padfoot! We have lots of stolen goods, including talkative
      portraits bound to their frames. And you invited the Director of
      Magical Law Enforcement to spend the night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well you invited her niece."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who was a classmate of mine and isn't responsible for arresting
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A classmate?" Sirius grinned. "Did you and her ever…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the old world?" Harry said. "Nope. I never really had the
      opportunity as she got killed about a year after her aunt, who
      incidentally got killed about a month after you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you wanted to, with her, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled as he fondly recalled, "She was the first girl in
      my school year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The first what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The first girl to sprout," Harry took a deep breath and proudly
      finished, "jubblies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sarah Morales," Sirius replied instinctively. "She was the
      first in my year. You never forget your first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So in answer to your question, yes," Harry agreed. "I had a bit
      of a crush on Susan. There were four or five girls in the DA that I
      may have been watching a bit closer than the other kids. She was
      definitely one of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was Ginny one of them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny was a friend I was watching close anyway. But that
      reminds me," Harry said turning towards Sirius. "Just this morning
      I was able to shove Ginny's head through the mattress. It was kinda
      moist and cold but she was solid to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Further proof we're meant to be together," Ginny said appearing
      just behind Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry said turning to her. "And here I thought it was
      so that I could actually smack you all those times I wanted to
      smack you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny floated through the couch and rested herself as if she
      were leaning on Harry's shoulder. "Our little tiffs just make
      making up that much more fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was trying to poke and push Ginny but his hand just passed
      straight through as normal. "How'd I do that earlier?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shrugged. "Accidental necromancy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no such thing as accidental necromancy," Harry
      grumbled. "Don't be ridiculous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Says the Soul-Mate-Who-Lived," Sirius added with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood up from the couch and grumbled. "I'm going to take a
      shower. Try not to seduce any high ranking law enforcement
      officials while I'm gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny stayed there on the couch as Harry walked back towards his
      room. She grinned at Sirius. "He just needs to wash all that Susan
      off of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've not seen you in a while Ginny," Sirius replied settling
      down in the recliner across from her. "Last time we talked you
      promised me a good story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Ginny said shifting her body to lie down on the couch.
      "A good story. Anything in particular?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "I remember you mentioning something about a
      <em class="calibre8">Dennis</em>-slash-<em class="calibre8">Denise</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh! That <em class="calibre8">is</em> a good story," Ginny smiled thinking back
      to that day. "This was after Voldemort was killed. Harry had been
      trying to recreate some of the magic in the Exit and sort of unmade
      all of his loose ward stones from existence. So he went to Diagon
      Alley to pick up a bunch of new ward stones and was coming back
      through the Leaky Cauldron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He walked in through the back door and headed for the muggle
      side when a woman got up from the bar and stood in front of him
      blocking his path. She leant forward and whispered into his ear
      that she wanted to ravish him, right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny snickered. "Harry examined this dark-haired smoldering
      woman who he didn't know, realized she was practically in heat, and
      quickly agreed. She suggested his place, but Harry said no. He
      turned right around and got a room from Tom there in the Leaky
      Cauldron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny repositioned herself and continued. "Those two went at
      each other like Pureblood Princess Parpie and her betrothed Heir
      Cleangood, <em class="calibre8">if you know what I mean</em>. Forty-five wet, sticky
      minutes later they were both exhausted and just lying there on the
      bed. You know that sweaty time afterwards, where you keep your
      distance and cool off. Well the woman still hadn't given her name,
      but it was clear she recognized who Harry was. So while they're
      just lying there, the alarm on her watch starts beeping and they
      turn to each other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The look of horror on Harry's face was priceless," Ginny
      preempted. "Because when that watch beeped, it signified it had
      been an hour and Dennis Creevey's polyjuice was wearing off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was quickly cataloging all the different ways to
      eternally mock Harry for this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But even funnier," Ginny said through laughter, "was the look
      of horror on Dennis' face when Harry Potter didn't turn into his
      boyfriend Terry Boot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I got the whole story from Dennis later on because all he could
      do right then was to keep apologizing over and over to Harry. Now
      stick with me on this tale," Ginny assured him, "because it gets
      even better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius briefly considered taking notes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what happened was that Dennis and Terry were looking to
      spice up their relationship and managed to buy a few Harry Potter
      hairs off the black market. They were actually at the Leaky
      Cauldron to do a little role-playing. They went into separate
      bathrooms and while Terry drank a glass of Harry-juice, Dennis
      downed a glass of a woman who was supposed to be a surprise to
      Terry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unfortunately when Terry chugged his brew, he turned into a
      Harry Potter that was lacking a lightning bolt scar. That's why it
      took him a couple minutes longer in the bathroom. And while Dennis,
      polyjuiced to look like the waitress who took their picture on
      their first date, was waiting at the bar, the real Harry Potter
      just happened to walk in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A couple minutes later while Dennis and Harry are putting up
      silencing charms in the room they rented, Terry has put the
      finishing touches on a glamour charmed scar for his forehead and is
      walking out of the bathroom. He looked towards the bar and didn't
      see any woman who caught his eye. But wouldn't you know it, right
      then, Terry's aunt walked into the Leaky Cauldron."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh sweet Merlin," Sirius gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was giggling happily. "Terry, who everyone can plainly see
      is Harry Potter, walked right up to the woman he assumed was Dennis
      and said he wanted to ravish her, right then. She didn't want to go
      back to her place, so Terry went up to Tom and asked for a room.
      From what I'm told Tom was very impressed and rented 'Harry'
      another room, just a minute or two after the first one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Less than an hour later, Terry's aunt had fallen asleep with
      the widest, most content smile on her face. Terry's polyjuice then
      wore off and when his aunt, stayed his aunt, he flipped out. He
      grabbed all of his stuff and ran out of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right in the hallway, Terry's there with his clothes in his
      arms and he sees Dennis come sprinting out of the room next door.
      They look at each other and shriek at the same time: <em class="calibre8">I had sex
      with my aunt! I had sex with Harry Potter!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Terry and Dennis agreed to never play polyjuice games again,"
      Ginny finished gleefully. "And not two days later, the Quibbler ran
      a special front page article written by Betty Boot entitled
      <em class="calibre8">Harry Potter: Greatest Lover Ever.</em> There were enough juicy
      details to sell-out three re-printings of that issue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That could only happen to Harry," Sirius said shaking his head.
      "But what I don't get is if Dennis and Terry wanted to pretend with
      Harry polyjuice, why'd they have to complicate things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny smiled brightly. "Actually it was at Dennis' insistence.
      Because, and I quote, 'Harry Potter is the antithesis of gay. He
      practically oozes heterosexuality.' Which, considering Dennis is
      the one who had sex with him, is especially ironic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I've autographed that issue more than the one
      proclaiming Voldemort's defeat," Harry said from the doorway. He
      was only wearing flannel pajama bottoms and was towel drying his
      hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius didn't even know where to start rubbing this one in
      Harry's face. "So is this the real reason you wanted to live with
      me when you were thirteen? To take advantage of my sexy prison-fed
      body?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a knock at the front door and Harry turned to go
      answer it. He reminded Sirius, "Don't forget I can kick your
      ass."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry draped the towel around his neck and opened the front
      door. "Hello," Harry curiously greeted two people he was not
      expecting to see. "Can I help you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black," Peter Potter greeted. "I was hoping to get some
      opinions on a few political issues, if you or the other Lord Black
      had any time to talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stepped back inviting them in. "Ahh sure. And call me
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"PJ," the Potter Lord reminded. "And this is my great nephew,
      James."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jimmy," Harry greeted shaking the hand of the little brother he
      never had. "I think that's what Tonks said she calls you when your
      Dad's not around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I just say that calling the Ministry a bunch of stupid
      muggles was beautiful," James Jr. cheered. "It made my week. I saw
      Weasleys' Wheezes already had some t-shirts for sale with
      quotes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter put a calming hand on James' shoulder. "If this is a bad
      time, Harry, we can talk later. Perhaps we could buy you lunch. The
      other Lord Black too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down and saw he was shirtless. "Oh no it's fine. I
      just got out of the shower a couple minutes ago. My cloak's going
      to be soaking in potion for another hour or so. I'm in no
      hurry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Morning Harry," was the call coming from the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tonks?" Harry asked back. "Is that you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Err… I'm not interrupting you, am I?" Tonks asked quietly when
      shirtless Harry walked up to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naw, you're fine. Come on in," Harry smirked. "Say hi to the
      Potters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh boy," Tonks said as her eyes widened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax," Harry assured her. "Your boss isn't one of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks looked over Harry's shoulder and to the front entryway.
      "Jimmy? What are you doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uncle PJ managed to convince Mum it'd be educational," James
      Jr. said, clearly indicating he couldn't care less if it was
      educational.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Harry yelled up the stairs. "Get down here and say hi
      to the Potters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief pause before a voice yelled back, "What the
      hell is up with your luck today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry firmly believed fate was a fickle bitch just begging to be
      tempted and wisely said nothing. He turned towards Tonks, James
      Jr., and Lord Peter Potter and opened his mouth when there was a
      knock at the front door. "Excuse me," Harry said to them and
      carefully peered around the door. "Amy. Long time, no see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you start with me, Harry," Amelia said as she moved
      forward to be let inside. "I got one Lord Black notch in my bedpost
      already this morning. I don't need another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't quite know what to say, as he was certain everyone
      behind him had heard her clearly. Harry moved out of the way,
      revealing Peter Potter smiling brightly. Harry's eyes glimmered in
      amusement. "Come on in, Amy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones realized it was not just Harry present, but in fact
      Lord Potter, her Assistant Director's son, and Auror Tonks were all
      staring at her with grins. Amelia looked resigned as she smiled
      weakly back. "Oh this is fantastic. Actually, I think I'm beyond
      caring right now." Amelia just walked past the four others with her
      head held high. "If you'll excuse me, I need to go find my
      bra."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay, Amy," Sirius said from the top of the stairs.
      "Kreacher!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The elf appeared as called.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madame Bones is looking for her-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll get it, Master," Kreacher replied, disappearing with a
      pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I met you," James Jr. said as he recognized Sirius. "You're
      Lord Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wasn't when we met," Sirius replied. "But I am now. PJ?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter shook Sirius' hand and nodded. "I was hoping not to
      interrupt you guys, but it seems pretty busy around here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia found herself agreeing and asked, "What are you doing
      here, Auror Tonks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks stopped smiling at the walk of shame and was reminded this
      scarlet woman was her boss. "I, kind of, ditched Harry last night.
      I wanted to apologize and find out how his evening went."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia opened her mouth to respond when suddenly there was
      another knock at the front door. "Lovely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me," Harry said, turning back to answer the door. He
      once again slowly opened the door, identified the visitor, and
      greeted loudly, "Susan. Long time, no see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen Harry," Susan just started explaining. "I don't care if
      you did bite all the way through. Those are my lucky panties and I
      want them back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on in, Susan," Harry echoed his earlier words and moved
      out of the way to show five more people than she was expecting to
      see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Susan," Harry cleared his throat and introduced, "You remember
      Sirius, and this is Tonks, and Lord Potter, and Lord Potter's great
      nephew Jimmy, and of course-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Susan reddened. "Hi Auntie."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good to see you again, Susan," Amelia grinned mirthlessly with
      a complexion almost as rosy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not awkward at all, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a pop, Kreacher appeared with a bright blue lacy brassiere.
      "Your bra, Madame Bones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia proudly accepted her bra from the house elf. "This is
      exactly how I pictured my day was going to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks smirked at Harry. "So your night, it went okay, it sounds
      like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" a voice called out, knocking on the open front door.
      "Anybody home?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter was impressed his second encounter with the Lords Black
      was proving to be even more entertaining than the first.
      "James?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The latest unexpected visitor stopped in surprise. "Uncle
      Peter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad!" James Jr. greeted happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Boss!" Tonks chimed in just because.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Assistant Director Potter," Harry said evenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You," Sirius greeted coolly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh stuff it, Sirius," Harry scolded and turned towards the
      front door. "Something I can help you with, Assistant
      Director?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James saw his uncle was smiling brightly, his son was in good
      spirits, Tonks looked a bit nervous, and his boss was holding a bra
      and avoiding eye contact. "Have I come at a bad time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not particularly, no," Harry said before ordering, "Kreacher,
      fetch Susan's lucky panties please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Susan just reddened furthered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Master," the elf agreed, happy to be helping the pureblood
      women.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James looked at his uncle and son, asking, "Did you clear this
      with Lily?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter and James Jr. nodded with certainty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James glanced over all the faces again and decided to try and
      coax some information out of Sirius later. He was thinking perhaps
      when he wouldn't have his family and boss as an audience. "I'll
      come back some other time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned to leave and was blinded by a sudden magical
      flash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" A voice from the front steps called out. "Don't waste
      film. That's not a Lord Black. That's just Potter, an auror."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The press," Amelia announced, maintaining her unconvincing
      smile. "This is… this is <em class="calibre8">great</em>. You know, Sirius, you are
      quickly becoming the biggest mistake of my life that involved
      multiple orgasms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Auntie!" Susan eeped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amelia!" James scolded. "My son is here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks sucked in a breath knowing exactly how true that was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black!" A woman called out as she walked in, pushing past
      James Potter. "I was hoping to interview both or either Lord
      Black." She looked around the room at all the smiling faces while
      her photographer followed her in. "Have I come at a bad time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Rita, Bozo," Harry said through clenched teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rita Skeeter had just licked the tip of a quill and was
      surprised that not only was she recognized, but also her
      photographer. "Lord Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher suddenly appeared with some shiny black torn material.
      "Your lucky panties, Miss Bones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another flash indicated a picture had been taken. Only instead
      of wasting film on an auror, this time Bozo managed a shot of a
      shirtless Harry standing by Susan Bones holding her torn black silk
      panties, while in the background Sirius stood by Amelia Bones
      holding her bright blue lacy bra.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, that's it," Harry said taking charge of the situation.
      "Rita, take your photographer and go before I let the Manor's magic
      decide what to do with you. Owl us questions or to ask for a time
      to meet and we'll answer. But never come here uninvited. Assistant
      Director Potter, I guess we'll see you some other time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Having achieved a minor reduction in numbers, Harry turned back
      towards the Bones women. "Might I suggest a floo call in the
      future?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia and Susan bid the others goodbye and left through the
      Blacks' fireplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter saw Tonks, the two Lord Blacks. and his great nephew were
      all that remained. "Are your mornings typically this fun?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More often than you'd think," Tonks answered for them. "So you
      knuckleheads going to kick me out too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged and turned towards Lord Potter. "You're the one
      who wanted to talk politics. Any objections?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please," Peter said, waving his hand. "Nothing so formal,
      anyone you'd like to join us is welcome. I was merely very
      intrigued after your unique introductions to the Wizengamot
      yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I hate to disappoint you PJ," Sirius grinned. "But we're
      really not very intriguing. Shall we adjourn to the muggle
      room?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter didn't move as he turned to Harry and warily asked, "You
      have a room you keep your muggles in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doesn't everyone?" Harry chuckled. "But that's not the room
      he's talking about. We just picked up a new muggle home
      entertainment center and Sirius likes to waste away in front of the
      telly." Harry noticed Tonks had run quickly after Sirius heading
      towards the warded room. "Tonks too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter and James Jr. were both impressed by the setup and amused
      at the way Tonks and Sirius had already turned everything on,
      hypnotized by the screen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher brought them all beverages while Lord Potter inquired
      about Sirius and Harry's opinions on a variety of issues. Peter
      informed them his older brother Chuck had married Dorea Black while
      Sirius and Harry deftly avoided questions about exactly which
      branch of the family they came from or how the two of them were
      related. When the conversation turned towards old family history,
      it was clear Sirius and Harry weren't particularly proud of the
      Black legacy. Peter recounted some of the more shameful aspects of
      the Potter line while Sirius named every old Black he could think
      of that was worthy of their respect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Tonks and James Jr. were as clueless as he was and
      asked, "You're pretty quiet there, Jimmy. Alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Jr. nodded. "I don't know much of the history of the
      Potters. And my Dad's not all that big on tradition or old family
      politics either, so Uncle PJ's been trying to teach me all the
      things he doesn't think my Dad will."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Traditions were made to be broken," Harry said. "Or was that
      records?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you used that same argument about hymens the other
      day," Tonks interjected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well," Harry considered. "I think I tried it with the
      spirit of weak-willed morons too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I ask you something kinda personal, Harry?" James Jr.
      cautiously inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Tonks to see if she'd been giving anything away
      and answered. "Ask anything you want. No guarantees on whether I'll
      answer though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Jr. nodded immediately and saw his great uncle and Sirius
      were deep in conversation. "I can't help but notice you've got a
      few scars on your body. And I was curious where you got them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had forgotten he was shirtless still and looked at the
      scars on his arms and shoulder. "Yeah, the disfiguring ones you
      want to heal, but if they just look cool and have a decent story
      behind them, I'll wear 'em proudly. You want to trade some scar
      stories?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know how much I've got to trade. Wait!" James Jr.
      pulled up his pant leg. "I got this one from when I flew into a
      tree but that's about it. And… well… I pretty much just told you
      the story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got a few," Tonks grinned, tilting her head and showing
      one she kept hidden on the back of her neck. "But I've been meaning
      to ask about that shoulder one you got Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over at his rough right shoulder and grinned. "You
      picked a fun one to start. That one's got a happier memory than
      some. Let's see… this was over a year ago. There's this magical
      school, a lot like Hogwarts, and the seventh years had a ditch day
      where a couple dozen of the most troublesome miscreants were all
      involved in a scavenger hunt. One of the tasks was to locate…
      someone and get them to do something on the list. A younger brother
      of a good friend of mine led two of his classmates to my place
      figuring I'd be good for their hunt. Well, I made them work for it,
      teasing them with opportunities to win a drink, and when they
      failed, I'd down the shot of firewhiskey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh this bodes well," Tonks grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My tolerance for alcohol wavers every once in a while and
      before I realized it, I was quite drunk with three kids your age,"
      Harry continued remembering needing a pensieve the next morning to
      get answers. "Anyways, Hogwarts was a well-known school to those
      kids and somehow I came up with one of my less than brilliant
      ideas. I suppose I should add that when I get bored and drunk, my
      judgment may stray into unhealthy territory. I think I was dared
      but I might have dared myself, either way the point is, I wanted to
      test the Hogwarts motto."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">May</em> stray into unhealthy territory?" Peter questioned
      with a smile, as he and Sirius had stopped to listen to Harry's
      tale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Refresh my memory please," Tonks asked. "Just what is the
      Hogwarts motto?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Draco dormiens nunquam titillandus</em>," Harry answered
      just as assuredly as if Hermione was quizzing him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In English?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never tickle a sleeping dragon." James Jr. was looking at
      Harry's shoulder reverently. "That's a dragon bite?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, not a bite," Harry said running his fingers over the
      two valleys that had been gashes. "Just a little tail swipe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You took students with you to tickle a dragon?" Peter clarified
      warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced a little. "I was careful. I fitted them all with
      portkey trigger-buttons. If their thumb let up off the button, the
      portkey would've taken them away. And besides it was a mammoth old
      fat dragon anyway." Harry paused and saw that his precautions
      hadn't earned him any sympathy. "Or at least I'd thought it
      was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was it?" James Jr. asked enthralled by the story.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I mean it looked like four rolls of belly fat underneath
      this snoozing overgrown lizard," Harry explained. "Until I actually
      flew up to it and began to tickle it. My blurry vision got a lot
      less blurry and it turned out the four rolls of belly fat were
      actually four little two meter baby dragons. And one large,
      perfectly fit, very angry mother dragon nursing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I flew out of there, dodging her fireblasts until one of the
      little guys bit down and managed to get a firm hold of my
      cape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Sirius interrupted. " Cape?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Well I looked silly with only a codpiece and a
      helmet on. The cape made all the difference."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw everyone else looked as lost as him. "Continue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyways, it was the little bugger pulling me down off my broom,
      and angry mama dragon's tail just glanced off my shoulder sending
      my flailing into the tree. Before I could hit it, I triggered my
      own portkey, which triggered all three of the boys' portkeys
      too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled rubbing his shoulder again. "That's how I got a
      cool scar and that's how those kids won their scavenger hunt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah?" Tonks smirked, up for a challenge. She showed off her
      right shin. "That's from a goblin's scimitar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't want to play this game with me," Harry argued. "You
      can cheat and make up all the ones you want. My truth is stranger
      than your fiction." Harry tapped his forehead, subtly indicating
      his unbeatable trump card in any game of scar one-upmanship.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks didn't think that one should count. "I wouldn't cheat,"
      Tonks said hefting her elbow in the air. " Griffin paw raked me,
      right here. What do you got?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jumped up and bent over, revealing a butt cheek. "Muggle
      shot me three times after a little dark artifact hunting
      accidentally burned down a thousand acres of cartel owned
      land."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggles," Tonks mocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry showed her the back of his right arm and pointed to a
      centimeter sized ring. "Basilisk fang."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no way that tiny thing is from a basilisk fang," Tonks
      insisted. "Unless it was about a half meter long and still
      teething."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his arm over showing the much larger scarred ring.
      "That side was the exit wound, and it was about twenty meters and
      several centuries old."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter's eyes widened knowing how poisonous the serpents were in
      addition to their fatal stare. "You should be dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks gulped, misinterpreting his meaning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry poked Tonks with an invisible arm and answered, "A phoenix
      cried several tears, healing it while I was dizzy from the
      poison."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's bloody awesome!" James Jr. cheered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry agreed before pouting. "But I've still never even
      seen a nundu."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw one," Tonks triumphantly announced. She weakly added,
      "Course it was in a cage." She deflated further. "And dying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the others. "Anyone want to go for a nundu
      hunt?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter saw how excited his great nephew was and wisely decided,
      "I think perhaps we've taken up enough of your time, Sirius,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's probably a good idea," Sirius said shaking Peter's hand
      again. "I may need to put Harry down for his nap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Lord Potter," Harry formally apologized. "I can only
      stomach so many reminders of our nation's corrupt wizarding history
      before I want to go… well, tickle a sleeping dragon. It gives me
      fresh memories of how exciting and fun the magical world really
      is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No apology necessary, Lord Black," Peter assured him. "I may
      have had a few flings with a vampire princess in my youth as
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uncle PJ!" James Jr. exclaimed in shock. He started to smile,
      "Got any pictures?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter steered his great nephew away. "Good day, Lords Black,
      Miss Tonks-Lupin. We should do this again some time."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>They had spent two long days scouting, planning, and settling
      on a course of action for their next job. The decision had been
      made and they'd already started the ball rolling with a hidden
      slow-acting ward-eater. Lord Simmons lived alone and was going to
      be out of the country for eight days. In Harry's estimation, the
      primary outer wards would be weak enough by the day after tomorrow
      to crumble without incident.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">With all of their preliminary work done, the two Lord Blacks
      were wandering Diagon Alley, when they encountered a small but
      familiar establishment entitled <em class="calibre8">Weasleys' Wizarding
      Wheezes</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smiled at the window display and walked in first. "How
      could you not want a custom charmed shirt to say <em class="calibre8">Fuck you all
      very much</em>? It's my new catchphrase!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Sirius," Harry assured him while looking at the
      magic interwoven into the expensive t-shirt. He smiled to see
      '<em class="calibre8">and your mother twice</em>' on the back of the shirt. "But
      you're far too old for a catchphrase."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not," Sirius pouted. "You're just jealous my catchphrase
      is better than yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I consider it my civic duty to piss you off</em> is much
      too long for a catchphrase, but let's find out which one has been
      selling better." Harry took Sirius' shirt from him and they walked
      up to the counter where a Weasley twin was cashing out a customer
      and wearing a nametag that helpfully said, 'Weasley.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the customer finished, Harry and Sirius stepped up. Harry
      greeted, "Weasley?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man looked up as his twin came out from the back room with a
      sandwich in his hand. Recognition flashed in his eyes as he
      retorted, "Lord Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weasley," Sirius greeted the other twin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weasley."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As much fun as it might be to continue, Fred, George, this is
      Sirius, and I'm Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is indeed very serious," one of the twins agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other continued, "And I can recommend a good barber if you
      like." He closed an eye to examine Harry's unruly black hair.
      "Maybe some landscapers too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have a question for you, Fred," Harry said looking at the
      twin manning the register.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How'd you know I'm Fred?" He said with a frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. "I didn't because you're not. You're George, and
      I know <em class="calibre8">that</em> because you would never give up the
      opportunity to switch places so quickly as to admit to being
      Fred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George turned towards Fred who was still eating his sandwich.
      "He's a slippery one alright."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred shrugged and swallowed the bite in his mouth. "Well we are
      selling shirts off of their quotes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that's what we wanted to ask you about," Sirius jumped in.
      "Just how much better is <em class="calibre8">Fuck you all very much</em> selling
      versus that other one that's not really a catchphrase?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're about even as most people buy both. Ten galleons for
      the pair, six galleons for just one," George answered. "You Lords
      here to demand a piece of the action?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry exchanged a glance and both shook their
      heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was wondering," Harry inquired. "Just what sort of magic is
      on them to justify the cost of six galleons at your limited time
      only sale price?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're expensive because we had to create our own spell and
      security on them," Fred answered. "It's based off of muggle charms,
      where muggles look at magic buildings and see ruins. The spell
      makes it so people who'd get really offended by the words see only
      what they'd expect to see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is usually just a plain t-shirt," George added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius let out a low whistle. "That's a tasty piece of
      magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not quite foolproof though," George answered pointing
      towards the front of the store.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small girl was tugging on her mother's sleeve and asked,
      "Mummy? Why does that say…" The little girl pulled her mother
      closer and whispered in her ear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I never!" the mother huffed and grabbed her daughter
      leaving the store quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius turned back around to face the brightly smiling
      Weasley twins.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're obviously doing something right," Sirius grinned. "But
      with the ability to manufacture clothes like that in addition to
      all your other wheezes, I'd have thought you'd need a bigger
      store."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred smiled sadly. "Unfortunately we don't have the capital to
      expand and Gringotts' unsecured loan rates hover right around…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your firstborn and your soul," George finished. "Why? Do the
      Lords Black have ten thousand galleons they want to loan us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry looked at each other for a moment
      intermittently smiling and shrugging. Harry turned back,
      "Maybe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George both stiffened and stood a little straighter.
      "Are you serious?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slapped a hand over Sirius' widely smiling mouth. "First
      thing is you never ask that question around this guy. And second…"
      Harry let go of Sirius' mouth and turned to him. "What's
      second?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Second," Sirius grinned. "I can assure you that we are at a
      minimum, half-serious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred and George were smiling brightly at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah crap," Harry realized and grumbled. "I'm about to be
      outnumbered and he's got a new catchphrase."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give us a few days," George said. "We'll work up a proper
      business presentation and proposal for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have to do that," Harry said waving them off. "We
      wouldn't even appreciate a proper business presentation. Tell you
      what. Give him his t-shirt free, set me up with a few pairs of
      extendable ears, and we'll buy you guys drinks tonight. We can talk
      about it then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll warn you right now," Sirius jumped in. "I'm thinking more
      along the lines of an investment or partnership than a simple loan.
      We don't want to buy you out or force our opinions on you, but I
      think giving us a stake in helping <em class="calibre8">your</em> business to
      improve will benefit us both."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The shirt's yours," George quickly agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred added, "And I know where we can go and get the drinks for
      free."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins looked at each other and said in unison, "But what are
      extendable ears?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked having not even considered that they might not
      have been invented here. "Oops."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius came to Harry's rescue and added, "We'll probably give
      you some invention ideas even if we don't reach an accord. Now
      where's this place with free drinks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred corrected, "They're not free for everybody, but if you're
      with us, you should be fine. We'll close up a little early and meet
      you at the Hog's Head in an hour?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's in Hogsmeade," George clarified. "Near the edge of
      town."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We know it. See you soon, gentlemen," Sirius agreed and steered
      Harry on out of the store.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two men hadn't even gone thirty paces when they were
      interrupted by one of the slimiest sounding voices around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, well, well. If it isn't both the Lords Black," Lucius
      Malfoy drawled, while his wife just stood next to him with a stoic
      expression. "Two people claiming the same Lordship. That's a
      bastardization of magic and nobility not seen since the blood
      traitor to the Black name was… <em class="calibre8">purified</em> twenty-five years
      ago."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius knew Lucius was just trying to get a rise out of them.
      "I'm sorry. Am I supposed to know you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Harry happily interrupted when Lucius was about to
      respond. "The over-compensating cane, the hair that has to look
      more feminine than his wife's, you know this guy. This is that
      registered sex offender the other Lords kept joking about, Shoeless
      Towel-boy or something like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius was seething but kept up his mask of indifference. "You
      poor misguided plebeians. You don't have to hide behind such a faux
      rebellious attitude just to get your names in the paper. After all,
      the Blacks and Malfoys have been allies for centuries."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry got the feeling he detected amusement in Narcissa's eyes.
      "Allies? Don't you Malfoys consider the word <em class="calibre8">allies</em> a
      synonym for the people you haven't gotten around to stabbing in the
      back <em class="calibre8">yet</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius jumped in and explained to Harry. "He's referring to the
      part of the Black legacy where you devote yourselves blindly to
      terrorist organizations. There's nothing like propagating
      intolerance and bigotry to bring glory and honor to a proud
      family."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius narrowed his eyes but wasn't going to lose his cool. "If
      you have no interest in improving the state of affairs and
      restoring our nation to greatness, perhaps you should go back to
      whatever hole you two crawled out of," Lucius warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Restoring our nation to greatness?" Sirius retorted. He turned
      to Harry and asked, "Does he actually mean ideals as dated as that
      hideous outfit he's wearing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be nice, Sirius," Harry sarcastically scolded. "You can see the
      wrinkles on his face, the grey coming in to his hair. At least he
      can still fit into an old costume like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' eyes flared at the mention of grey hair but held his
      tongue. "I see tradition and loyalty has truly become lost to the
      Black family."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"On the contrary, Lord Towel-boy," Sirius retorted happily. "The
      Blacks will protect their own. It saddens us to think of the
      horrors Narcissa Black has endured over the years, though it is a
      comfort to know that you can't teach ignorance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No matter how hard your daddy and his wand probably tried,"
      Harry added with a grin while fighting the impulse to smack the
      smug look off Lucius' face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius just smiled dangerously. "I was asked some <em class="calibre8">very</em>
      interesting questions about you, Sirius Black," Lucius said with a
      knowing grin. "And I suspect you were asked similar questions about
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You suspect?" Harry interjected. "He suspects, Sirius. Do you
      suspect anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suspect his crotch is so rotten that even the crabs committed
      suicide," Sirius answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius shook his head. "Boys, boys. Tsk, tsk. Always so quick to
      hide behind sarcasm. Quite a bit like a Sirius Black I used to
      know. He died on Halloween begging for mercy from what I hear. It'd
      be a <em class="calibre8">crying</em> shame for history to repeat itself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Says the man who brought up that point once already," Sirius
      retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I noticed you sent a representative to the Wizengamot," Harry
      commented. "You should come yourself. I'd love to see if we
      couldn't try and resolve our differences with an audience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius sighed. "I suppose it was a vain hope that either of you
      could engage in any intelligent conversation." He grabbed
      Narcissa's hand. "Let us take our leave from the travesty your
      former family has become."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We mean it, Narcissa," Sirius called out as they walked away.
      "We will protect a Black. It requires renouncing any other name or
      Master, and declaring loyalty to the family. Think about it the
      next time he curses you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed once the Malfoys were out of earshot. "God I hate
      that fucker."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "You know growing up, she was only mean
      to me when she was forced to. Not exactly a bucket of compassion,
      but her heart wasn't in it. Not sure her heart has ever been in
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked. "She's as bad as Molly Weasley at being a doting
      mother."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could see that." Sirius agreed and turned to Harry. He made
      sure he was looking him in the eye, pleading, "After this job, I
      want to rob that fucker blind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and sighed. "Me too, but don't set your heart on it
      just yet. If it's anything like our old world, the wards are
      tighter than everything this side of Gringotts and Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I figured," Sirius admitted. "Let's go get drunk now. Get a
      head start on those Weasley twins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pair apparated to Hogsmeade and walked right into the dingy
      pub, the Hog's Head. A quick glance showed a woman behind the bar
      and not the Headmaster's brother that Harry had been expecting. His
      attention was drawn to a smiling blonde woman waving him over to
      her table. Sirius walked up to the bar while Harry approached the
      attractive familiar face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been expecting you," Luna Lovegood greeted Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around briefly and saw Sirius was still trying to
      get the attention of the bartender. "Are you sure it's me you've
      been expecting?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna shook her head. "No, but I think it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why were you expecting me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna tilted her head in the exact same way the Luna of Harry's
      old dimension did. "You know me, but I don't know you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," Harry commented, unsure how he felt about an
      alternate Luna but having never doubted the loyalty of the first
      one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luna tilted her back up and earnestly asked, "Perhaps we could
      discuss it over libations as we collectively contemplate the
      possibility of intercourse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. Then he took a moment to process her meaning and
      smiled at her. "Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Sirius wheezed out. "Harry help! Man down!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry whipped around and saw Sirius on the floor, with his hands
      over his crotch. He didn't see any threats but a few that looked
      like regulars around the bar were chuckling. He ran up to his
      godfather and asked, "What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took one of his hands off his private bits and pointed
      straight towards the bar and bartender.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jerked up and immediately began to assess the threat. The
      bartender was a bit short, had a rag tied up covering her black
      cropped pixie-like hair. A decent chest accentuated by a halter-top
      and half-folded down apron showed a toned stomach. The most
      fetching aspect was the pair of thong straps riding up her bare
      hips. She had more piercings than just about any witch Harry had
      ever seen, but the twinkle in her eye was way too familiar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Holy crap!" Harry blurted out, leaning forward to look closer
      at her face. "Ginny?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bartender's smirk turned into a frown and she slapped her
      hand down on the bar directly in front of Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wondered what the hell happened to Ginny Weasley and why
      she was slapping the bar when he felt a steel-toed boot fly up
      between his legs and slam into his soft tissue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry crumpled to the floor, grabbing his livelihood, and
      assuming a nearly identical position as Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was now laughing in pain but making no move to get up off
      the floor yet. "That kick lifted you off the ground. That was
      great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could only groan, as the bartender walked around the bar
      and right up to the two men on the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both rolled onto their backs to look up at her, catching a
      nice view of some skintight leather shorts. A small kitten tattoo
      was partially visible on an inside upper thigh that Harry was
      confident was completely bare on the original Ginny.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was perfectly aware where both men were staring as she
      smirked down on them. "The name is Gin and you'd do well to
      remember that."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
