<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER NINETEEN, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 19</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: Big thanks to IP, Chuck,
      Jim, Draco, and all the folks who help me straighten out my
      chapters as their input greatly improved this one. You may think
      this chapter is filler, but I prefer to think of it more like an
      interlude. And I realized we're closer to the end of this fic than
      I first thought. Not completely sure but there's probably somewhere
      between seven and a dozen chapters to go. Thanks for all the
      reviews. I do read and appreciate every one. And I try to answer
      any legitimate questions asked (that means I won't tell you who
      That Fucker is. But if you guess it exactly right and back it up
      with reasons properly I may tell you to shush...).<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know putting Grimmauld under a Fidelius isn't that bad of
      an idea even if we do move Bellatrix into her own place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If?" Sirius squeaked. "What do you mean <em class="calibre8">if</em>? And you've
      got a problem Harry. Your solution to everything is putting it
      under Fidelius. It's not healthy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a fantastic charm," Harry indignantly argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if we put it over our place that would mean no more
      bringing muggles home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I know. But we made the decision against it
      before we publicly kicked Voldemort's ass."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our gift though, Harry," Sirius pleaded. "We should use our
      gift. We owe it to sex. You know we do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry always had trouble arguing against sex.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And don't give me that hotels or their places bollocks," Sirius
      said shaking his finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Harry said. "I'm not saying we have to. But give it some
      consideration."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They arrived at the entrance to the newest branch of Weasleys'
      Wizard Wheezes located in Hogsmeade. Harry opened the door and let
      Sirius in first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Attention shoppers," Sirius yelled loudly. "There is an
      extremely irritable werewolf in here. Do not antagonize him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Remus called out from behind the cash register wincing
      at the sudden yelling. He rubbed his ears, grateful that the store
      was currently empty. "I'm not above jinxing your eyebrows into
      thinking they're foreskin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius blinked. "That would make my head look really odd. Both
      of them, come to think of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You feeling okay, Moony?" Harry asked as he leaned on the
      counter next to Remus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus half-heartedly grunted positively. "Considering last
      night, yeah, about normal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was still walking through the aisles looking at the
      goodies for sale. "I bet you'd be feeling better if you just let me
      keep you company, instead of you know who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort?" Harry inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus turned to Harry. "You think I spend the full moon with
      Voldemort?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius laughed as he picked up a product, smelled it, and set it
      back down. "I'd forgotten about all those nicknames like
      You-Know-Who."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bleh," Harry said sticking out his tongue. "Easy for you to
      forget them. You never even got one after breaking out of
      prison."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should have gotten one," Sirius realized and began to
      daydream aloud. "He-Who-Could-Not-Be-Contained."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twelve years," Remus reminded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For-Too-Long," Sirius added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided not to crush his godfather's hopes of being
      nickname worthy. "I swear if I heard Hermione's spiel about 'fear
      of a name increases fear of the thing itself' one more time, I was
      going find You-Know-Who and jam my You-Know-What You-Know-How into
      his You-Know-Where… hole."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus tiredly looked at Sirius messing up one of the displays.
      "This has been great guys. I'm so glad you dropped by."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry Moony," Harry apologized. "Aren't you closing soon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus nodded. "Officially we're open until ten." He waved his
      wand towards the front turning the sign off and locking the door.
      "But it's close enough for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice work ethic," Sirius nodded. "Tonks would approve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jumped in with a smile. "We've got some good news, some
      bad news, and some great news."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus looked up curiously. "Give me the bad news."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry firmly retorted. "I wasn't asking what you wanted
      first. The good news is we're kicking Bellatrix out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Remus asked worriedly. "Kicking her out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She doesn't know yet," Sirius commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Remus said looking at Harry and Sirius in
      disappointment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that ties into the bad news," Harry said with a clap of
      his hands. "See, the reason we're kicking her out is that we've got
      a new house rule: no pregnant chicks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems a bit harsh," Remus said before stopping in sudden
      realization of what Harry had just implied. "You mean she's…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Carrying your furry half-breed beast," Sirius agreed.
      "Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's…" Remus was struggling for words. He straightened up and
      defiantly whined, "That's not bad news."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry in confusion. "I guess it depends on how
      you look at it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus frowned. "So then what's the great news?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned brightly. "We've submitted an offer for the flat
      next to yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus took a moment before connecting the good news and bad news
      with the great news. He closed his eyes and sighed. "She's always
      going to be at my place, isn't she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm really not sure," Sirius said walking up to the counter
      where Harry and Remus were. "But just in case, let me be the first
      to say… <em class="calibre8">ha-hah</em>!" Sirius laughed while childishly
      pointing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ha-hah</em>," Harry echoed and pointed at Remus.
      "Second."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is…" Remus was still processing the situation. "This is
      big. Where is she? I should talk to her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was at Grimmauld Place," Harry said checking with
      Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "I think she was planning on a night in. I
      remember something about drowning herself in the bathtub."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever," Harry said waving Sirius off. "We're going to the
      Hog's Head, Moony. Care to join us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Remus said shaking his head. He started locking up the
      register and shutting down everything else. "I'm going to go see
      her. This is… wow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Congratulations," Harry said finally realizing how much Remus
      was smiling. "Forgot about that part. Way to impregnate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Remus agreed patting Harry on the back and urging them
      out of the store. "Come on, come on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry were pushed out the front door and Remus
      activated the store's lockdown wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Slow down," Harry argued as Remus was frantically locking
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See you later guys," Remus snapped and apparated away with a
      loud crack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not like you don't have eight and half months or so,"
      Harry mumbled towards the empty air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry walked through the wizarding village and down
      to the familiar dingy pub.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grab us a pitcher of draft," Sirius said. "I'm going to hit the
      loo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully walked up to the bar and saw Gin smirking at
      him. "Please don't nut me. You know Sirius is waiting in the
      bathroom just hoping to see the pictures change."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's in it for-" Gin began when a group at a back booth
      called out for her. She pasted a clearly mocking smile on her face.
      "I'll be with you in a minute, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to his left and saw a very cute redhead watching
      him unabashedly. Harry looked away and tried to smother his grin.
      He walked over to her cataloguing just which parts of her form
      fitting robes were pulled taut. "You know an attractive young woman
      like yourself stands out quite a bit in a place like this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As does as a Lord Black," the redhead playfully retorted. She
      turned forward to face the bar, looking away from Harry
      finally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was mesmerized by the nape of her neck and her profile
      when she looked away. "So what is it that brings an attractive
      young woman like yourself into a place like this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you flirting with me, Lord Black?" she asked with a small
      grin distinctly lacking in innocence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, call me Harry," Harry said noticing his godfather walk
      up. Harry had been waving Sirius off the whole way but the older
      man barged right up to him anyway. Harry warned, "I hope there's an
      emergency."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not exactly," Sirius replied. He glanced at the redhead
      wearing a sultry grin. "Sorry to interrupt you. I just need to
      speak to Harry for a second."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The young woman was seductively pulling the cherry stem from her
      mouth as she swallowed the fruit that had been on the bottom of her
      drink. "I can wait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry irritably asked his godfather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, Harry, you remember when you gave me a hard time for
      hitting on that nineteen year old installing the floo?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was eighteen," Harry corrected and glanced at the redhead
      again, guessing her to be early twenties.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, about that…" Sirius said before reaching over and tapping
      the redhead on the shoulder. "What's your last name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She glanced at Sirius oddly and answered. "Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See ya, Harry," Sirius cheerfully said, slapping Harry on the
      back as he walked away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's entire body froze in shock, suddenly realizing why the
      young woman had seemed familiar. He turned to look at her closer.
      He wasn't saying anything just staring at her in abject horror and
      fascination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She blushed slightly under the intense scrutiny. "Don't tell me
      my parents have managed to scare you that badly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're Sarah Potter," Harry said in a calm dulcet tone. "Sarah…
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sarah agreed. "And you're Lord Harry Black. My little
      brother's hero."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…" Harry stuttered, becoming disgusted with himself for having
      entertained certain thoughts. "I…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Want to buy me a drink?" Sarah suggested with a smile, shaking
      the ice in her empty glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius came up from behind Harry and saw he was struggling.
      "Listen, Miss Potter. I'm sorry but I'm going to have to take Harry
      here. A situation has come up that requires our immediate
      attention."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice meeting you," Sarah said tipping her glass back so she
      could chew up her ice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wanted to smile seeing his 'sort of' sister was such an
      understanding genial person, but he knew how smiling at her would
      look. He was stuck in a loop of inaction as Sirius turned him
      around and led him back towards the other side of the bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sat Harry down on a stool and spun him around, attracting
      his full attention. "I wasn't lying, Harry. A situation has come up
      that I think we need to address."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's up?" Harry asked, acting more alert than he felt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just met a young woman who was drowning herself in
      butterbeer," Sirius explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Butterbeer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm guessing she has a low tolerance," Sirius assured him.
      "Anyways, she has had what she calls an unfortunately boring life.
      Bemoaning the fact that she never got into a fight in school, never
      went on an adventure, and claims to have never done anything
      spontaneous on a lark."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Harry said not sure where Sirius was going with
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I heard this, I knew immediately it was up to us to
      correct this oversight," Sirius continued. "We need to make an
      adventure. Just go somewhere random, find something fun to do, and
      take her with us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was a bit skeptical but shrugged. "Alright."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius turned Harry around towards the corner of the bar where a
      brunette was lackadaisically resting her chin on the bar. "Harry,
      I'd like you to meet Hermione Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione?" Harry said unable to believe his eyes. "Your hair
      looks great."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not going to sleep with you," she mumbled, still hunched
      over the bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's just," Harry commented. "Your hair is so straight and
      wavy… It's not frizzy at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm still not going to sleep with you." She finally lifted her
      head up and saw Sirius Black smiling widely at her. "Please tell me
      you're not still on this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sat down right beside and swung his arm over her
      shoulder. "You were not meant to live an unfortunately boring
      life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was the butterbeer talking," Hermione said shaking her
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've earned an adventure and we're here to give it to you,"
      Sirius insisted. "You know it'll do you some good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's face curled up in a pout as she pondered the best
      response. "Fine," she conceded. "I suppose you could be right. So
      when were you thinking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no," Sirius assured her, grabbing her drink and downing the
      rest of it. "We're doing it now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now?" Hermione squeaked in surprise. She looked at her watch.
      "But it's already past ten."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head in disappointment. "Oh, Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fact that you're concerned that it's already past ten just
      further proves how important it is that we do this immediately,"
      Sirius assured. "And besides, it's not ten everywhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry checked that he had his satchel with him. "I've got some
      energizing potions. And I can't help but notice it's about 8 in the
      morning on the Sydney beaches."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking New Zealand waterfalls maybe," Sirius
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "It's two in the afternoon in Vegas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "Since when has time ever mattered in
      Vegas?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione saw the two Lord Blacks conversing back and forth and
      couldn't take it. "You can not just up and go anywhere you
      want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked at one of his first friends. "Are you a witch or
      not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione resisted the urge to huff. "You still need permits for
      international travel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius unceremoniously lifted Hermione up off her bar stool.
      "Come along Miss Granger. You're traveling with two noble
      Lords."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does that matter?" Hermione questioned curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" Sirius prompted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When in service of matters pertaining to an ancient and noble
      family, a Lord is not restricted by such pedestrian laws," Harry
      happily recited. "Before you ask, it is up to the Lord's
      discretion. And I say this is a family matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't even know me," Hermione argued but didn't resist in
      the slightest as she was led out the front of the Hog's Head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what makes it spontaneous and random," Harry argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where do we start?" Sirius asked, wrapping an arm around
      Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snaked his arm around Hermione from the other side. "I'm
      thinking let's start in Egypt. Just to take a peek."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Egypt?" Hermione asked excitedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius turned to Harry. "I'll help, but you're pulling us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and began to focus on the target for a long
      distance apparition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why Egypt?" Hermione quietly asked Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius leaned towards her and whispered, "He still wants to ride
      on the back of a nundu."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes widened fearfully. "Ride on what-" She was cut
      off as she felt the squeezing sensation and loud sound accompanied
      with disapparition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The group of three slammed into place on the muddy bank of a
      river. Harry and Sirius were trying to hold Hermione steady but
      they all fell backwards onto their bums.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione screamed and scrambled away from them. "What do you
      think you're doing? Oh god. I think I'm going to be sick." Hermione
      was on her hands and knees trying to catch her breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jumped up and was brushing off his robes. "How much did
      you have to drink?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not drunk," Hermione snapped without even looking up. "I'm
      just not used to being forcefully apparated and kidnapped."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I told you she needs our help," Sirius assured Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reached into his satchel and found a bottle of water. He
      held it out for Hermione, "Water?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione accepted the bottle and eagerly drank it up. "This is a
      bad idea. Take me home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry Hermione," Harry said shaking his head. "I have an old
      friend who would be very disappointed in me if I did that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You really <em class="calibre8">are</em> kidnapping me," Hermione said with a
      frown as she sipped the chilled beverage. "I don't know who you
      think you're dealing with-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione Jean Granger, only daughter of Samuel and Delilah
      Granger," Harry recounted. "Both muggles and both dentists. How am
      I doing so far?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had her wand out in an instant and was pointing it at
      Harry and then Sirius intermittently. She was slightly worried that
      neither seemed concerned nor had they drawn their wands even. "What
      do you want from me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully withdrew his wand and nodded at Sirius to do the
      same. "I swear on my magic, I mean you no harm, no ill will, and
      only wish to break the monotony of your so-called unfortunately
      boring life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius made the same pledge and they both tucked their wands
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Happy?" Harry asked while digging into his satchel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's wand arm lowered and she looked at the two Lord
      Blacks curiously. "Oaths can be broken."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh brother," Sirius grumbled. "Why don't you cut loose for
      once? We're here to have some fun. Midnight skinny-dipping?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Hermione insisted angrily knowing all too well the
      reputations of both Lord Blacks. "Where are we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're in denial," Sirius replied unable to help himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned, pinching the bridge of his nose. "Feel free to
      curse him for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione asked in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the Nile," Harry said pointing towards the river. "He
      was making a punny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione giggled unable to help herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Hermione laugh and turned to Sirius. "It's worse than
      we thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we need skinny-dipping," Sirius said lifting his robe
      off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop!" Hermione said abruptly turning around. "I won't go along
      with this insanity unless you both stay fully clothed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned and pulled his robe back on. "At least she didn't
      say anything-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me too!" Hermione quickly added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nuts," Sirius sighed. "Fine. Fully clothed adventure. That
      sounds just… wild."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast a few location charms and decided, "We're a couple
      kilometers south of where we want to be. You guys feel up to some
      hiking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's float," Sirius suggested digging into his pocket. He
      withdrew a small yellow packet that he tore in half. The packet
      quickly expanded into a full-size octagonal raft that he dragged
      down to the river's edge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You carry an inflatable raft with you?" Hermione asked in
      confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course." Sirius nodded. "In case of emergencies or sudden
      pool parties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry climbed into the raft and held out a hand to help Hermione
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sudden pool parties?" Hermione questioned while delicately
      stepping into the raft.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The parties aren't sudden. The pools are," Sirius added pushing
      the raft off the bank and hopping in himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't ask," Harry interrupted Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione saw them drifting out into the river and looked around.
      "Don't we need oars?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naw," Sirius said. "That's what we keep Harry around for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had extended his invisible magical arms and was slowly
      paddling them downstream.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's right! Your magical appendages," Hermione brightened as
      the scholar inside her shined through. "I'd love to study them
      sometime. See what they can really do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius exchanged looks, both highly amused. Harry
      nodded at his godfather. "Go ahead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All of his magical appendages?" Sirius asked with a snicker.
      "Or just the invisible ones?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione blushed as she realized what she had said. "I didn't
      mean it like <em class="calibre8">that</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're just giving you a hard time," Harry assured her while his
      arms continued to break the stillness of the water with small
      gentle splashes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's cheeks were still pink as she replied, "Yeah I get
      the feeling that's exactly what you both want to give me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius gasped and turned to Harry. "A lewd joke! We're making
      progress already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You two are shameless," Hermione admitted with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pretty much," Sirius agreed digging out a bottle of
      firewhiskey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was leaning back looking up at the expansive sky. "That's
      a bright moon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was full last night," Sirius reminded thinking of Remus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took a moment to appreciate her surroundings, the
      crystal clear reflection on the river's surface, the nighttime
      sounds of frogs and insects, the gentle breeze of the comfortably
      cool night. "It's beautiful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And just think," Harry added. "If we hadn't kidnapped you, can
      you ever see yourself going for a float down the Nile on the spur
      of the moment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is crazy," Hermione half-heartedly complained. "You're
      just lucky it's a nice night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So tell us about yourself," Harry stated. "Why is it that you
      think you've had an unfortunately boring life?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said it once," Hermione chided. "You don't need to keep using
      that phrase."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry accepted the bottle from Sirius and took a swig of the
      firewhiskey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of my life," Hermione turned towards Harry accusingly.
      "Just why do you know so much about me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winked at her and offered the bottle. "That's classified,
      I'm afraid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Declassify it," Hermione ordered taking the bottle and knocking
      back a big gulp. She quickly began to cough as she swallowed the
      harsh liquid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was biting his lip and glanced at Sirius. Sirius just
      shrugged and supplied, "In another life, I bet you and Harry were
      best friends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was wiping her face after the minor coughing fit and
      handed the bottle to Sirius. "What does that mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't do this, Hermione," Harry instructed. "Don't try to
      analyze things, don't break it down until everything has an
      explanation and you understand it all. Tonight is about you cutting
      loose and having some fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not stalking me, are you?" Hermione warily asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I'm not stalking you," Harry assured her. "Don't you trust
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was closely watching Harry looking for any clue to his
      mystery. "I don't know why, but for some reason I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled brightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to Sirius, "You, not so much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good instincts," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Sirius said in defense of himself. "That's… alright fine.
      So tell us. You got a job? A boyfriend?" He paused before hopefully
      adding, "Maybe a girlfriend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced at Sirius and was going to ask but Harry
      immediately offered, "Yes, he really is that perverted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded and decided to just trust her gut. "I'm the
      Assistant to the Deputy Director of Non-Human Relations for the
      Ministry of Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a heck of a title," Harry agreed thinking that was
      significantly lower than the position his Hermione had been offered
      by the Ministry. "How's the job?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's fine," Hermione answered immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ouch," Sirius said with a wince. "Sorry to hear that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not bad," Hermione continued. "I mean the work is good.
      House elf mistreatment is a much more important issue than people
      realize."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to look away to keep from laughing at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm serious!" Hermione indignantly replied when she saw Harry's
      amusement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, me too," Sirius was forced to interject.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not laughing at you," Harry explained to Hermione through
      his chuckles. He turned to Sirius, "And I'm definitely not laughing
      at you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just," Harry grinned at Hermione. "It's nothing. You're
      right. Most house elves do deserve better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Hermione agreed. "And just so you know, jokes about
      your name Sirius, are the quickest way to get a woman to never want
      to sleep with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Sirius replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ever," Hermione added. "Ever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled at Sirius' pouting. "Since you so kindly brought up
      the subject, Hermione, tell us, is there a significant other in
      your life?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione answered. "Well, not really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not really, huh?" Harry jumped on the phrase. "And does this
      man know he's not significant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked away. "Probably not. I tried to explain that we
      should just be friends, but he talked me into calling it 'taking a
      break.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Want us to kill him?" Sirius offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione glanced over at Sirius trying to judge the
      veracity of his comment. "Please don't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Harry agreed. "What else you got? Tell us
      something juicier. Like why you feel your life is boring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not boring," Hermione argued. "It's just… I don't know. I
      feel like I've missed out on things. And I feel like there should
      be more I'm doing, instead of being stuck in a job where the fact
      that I'm a woman doesn't matter, but the fact that my parents are
      muggles is one of the most important things about me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pureblood bastards," Harry angrily mocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's us," Sirius agreed. "Well, me anyway. You're not exactly
      a pureblood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shhh," Harry mock hushed the older man. "That's supposed to be
      our little secret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not a pureblood?" Hermione asked curiously. "But you're
      Lord Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "My mum was muggleborn." He paused and saw
      Hermione was looking for more explanation. "I got the title from my
      godfather. He died. Left me a big house and an evil house elf that
      told me to use a certain ring to fix the wards on the place. I put
      on the ring, fixed the wards, and only later found out it was a
      hereditary ring. The house elf was hoping the ring was going to
      kill me, not make me the new Lord Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned at the description of the elf. "He may have
      just been confused."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Sirius assured her. "He was trying to kill him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So how are you Lord Black, then?" Hermione asked Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Long story," Harry said. "We're not going to tell it. Besides,
      I think this is what we're looking for." Harry said paddling them
      off to the large recess where the river curved east.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are we looking for?" Hermione asked, seeing lots of dense
      foliage and signs of paths that had grown over years ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This village was destroyed in 1893 by a nundu," Harry explained
      hopping out of the raft and dragging it up the bank. "It was the
      second time in three hundred years the village was visited by
      one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're genuinely looking for a nundu," Hermione commented
      stepping out of the raft. "Have you been checked by a mind healer
      in a while?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on Granger," Sirius chided with a smile. "Grow a
      pair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a woman," Hermione reminded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned at the literal interpretation and added, "Grow a
      pair of tits?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione crossed her arms over her chest. "My breasts are just
      fine, thank you very much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That they are," Sirius happily agreed, drawing his wand and
      catching up to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked out towards the river and thought she saw
      something large make a splash as it surfaced and dove back down.
      She quickly decided she didn't want to be alone and hurried to
      catch up to them. "Wait for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She ran past Sirius and caught up to Harry, grabbing onto his
      hand. "Don't you dare leave me alone out here in the middle of the
      night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down at their entwined hands and smiled at her.
      "You'll be fine." Harry reached an area with some rotted and broken
      down structures that once were huts. "This is the place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is creepy," Hermione said, holding her wand in her free
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you see a nundu," Harry ordered. "Let me know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure thing," Hermione skeptically agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do they look like?" Sirius asked staring off into the
      darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned as Hermione immediately responded to a question
      just like the Hermione he went to school with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They resemble leopards, but are more than three times their
      size, larger even than any of the muggle great cats. Contrary to
      popular belief they cannot turn invisible. In fact it is the
      rosettes on a nundu's back that have illusionary abilities allowing
      them to smoothly blend into their surroundings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius blinked and turned towards Hermione. "Okay…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great big leopards," Harry summarized.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gotcha," Sirius agreed pulling out his omnioculars and turning
      back towards the darkness. "Are they ever normal sized
      leopards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe a baby nundu," Harry suggested while squinting in the
      distance. "Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I think see a baby nundu coming down from a tree
      through there," Sirius pointed. "It's crawling backwards down the
      trunk in goofy way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry said hurrying over towards Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione squeaked knowing leopards were nocturnal
      hunters. "Come on guys. Hunting nundus is funny enough in theory,
      but let's not anger the dangerous wildlife please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gimme those," Harry said grabbing the omnioculars from his
      godfather. "Oh I see it! It's creeping across the ground this
      way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Err," Sirius interrupted. "You need to look to your right. It's
      still in the tree I think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry panned slightly and gasped. "Sweet! There's two baby
      nundus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are <em class="calibre8">not</em> baby nundus!" Hermione whispered
      insistently. "But we should still get out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was continuing to focus on the large felines with the
      omnioculars switching between night vision and heat signatures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can go back to the raft, if you want," Sirius
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not going out there alone," Hermione hissed. "Come on you
      guys, let's go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed and handed the omnioculars back to Sirius.
      "Hermione's right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank god," Hermione relaxed for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not baby nundus," Harry agreed. "Their heads are normal
      sized for those bodies. They're just leopards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm right about leaving, too, though, right?" Hermione pleaded.
      "Right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're headed this way," Sirius happily cheered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should go." Hermione tried lying as she pulled on Harry's
      arm. "I'm a bleeder. And carry many contagious diseases."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood his ground shaking his head. "They just want to come
      over and say <em class="calibre8">meow</em>. That's cat for 'Hi Hermione.'" He
      paused and scratched his chin. "Or is it 'Die mudblood?' I get
      those two mixed up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smacked Harry on the arm. "We don't have time for your
      stupid jokes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah really, Harry," Sirius said with a frown. "We barely have
      enough time for the smart jokes as it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not helping," Hermione whined, wanting to run but
      unprepared to leave Harry's side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here," Sirius handed her the omnioculars. "You can see them
      too. They're right through there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took the omnioculars and was surprised to find they
      showed heat signatures. "There are three of them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooh, three," Sirius grinned. "First person to scratch one
      behind the ears gets free drinks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're on," Harry quickly agreed. "Belly rubs count too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You guys are insane," Hermione pleaded. "What happened to
      swearing not to harm me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry patted Hermione on the top of her head and assured her.
      "We'll be fine. It's not like leopards can cast anti-apparition
      jinxes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That'd be scary if they could," Sirius agreed with a
      shiver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione twitched as she felt a magical wave run over her. "What
      was that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius closed his eyes, concentrated, and grunted when nothing
      happened. "Ack. Anti-apparition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione quickly tried to apparate and slammed into the ward.
      She whimpered loudly and was starting to shake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh crap," Sirius's voice squeaked and took a step back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just chuckled happily. "Sorry guys. I couldn't
      resist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione started punching Harry as he removed the
      anti-apparition ward. "That wasn't funny! That was mean and
      nasty!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snickered. "Actually it was pretty funny. I think a
      little pee came out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed and tried to calm Hermione. "Relax. The leopards
      can sense your fear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone can sense my fear," Hermione begged. "I'm not making
      it a secret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here kitty, kitty, kitty," Sirius said as one of the leopards
      emerged from the shadows and stopped to watch the three people. "Oh
      aren't you a big kitty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Grrr</em>," the front leopard growled loudly trying to
      scare them off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius paused and turned towards Hermione. "Do leopards eat
      people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are some conflicting opinions on whether the aggressive
      behavior first observed-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," Harry interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Hermione summarized as she gripped onto Harry's arm. "Yes
      they do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A second leopard was hunched to the ground and inching forward
      with its shoulder blades up threateningly. "<em class="calibre8">Grrr</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked over and saw the second leopard had stopped moving
      forward. He got the feeling that was a bad sign. "I think I'm
      gonna…" With a sudden crack, Sirius apparated a safe distance
      behind Harry and Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Rhawr</em>!" Both leopards roared as they leapt through the
      air at the gunshot like sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's invisible arms easily stopped both cats, slamming into
      them hard enough to flip them tail over head onto their backs.
      "Coward," he called out to Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another crack sounded as Sirius apparated right next to Harry
      and Hermione. "You're the coward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was unable to let bad logic go by without comment.
      "That doesn't make any sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of big pussy," Sirius segued with a jerk of his thumb.
      "There's another leopard back there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was pushing the angry cats away, trying not to seriously
      injure them despite the fact that they kept coming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is unnatural behavior," Hermione said, hunched down
      keeping a hand on Harry at all times. "Leopards aren't pack
      hunters. Occasionally they'll share territory but they shouldn't
      all be attacking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew it," Sirius argued. "Baby nundus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're <em class="calibre8">not</em> baby nundus," Hermione insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw there was no reasoning with Hermione. "I'm going to
      make sure the raft is okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Harry called out grabbing onto Sirius' arm just as he
      apparated. There was an extraordinarily loud crack as Sirius
      disappeared and Harry was left standing there holding Sirius'
      detached left arm. He glanced at Hermione, his face showing worry
      for the first time. "Oops."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione screeched as several leopards charged and were again
      rebuffed by Harry's invisible arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You splinched me!" Sirius shouted loudly in the distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry shouted back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was watching the now four different leopards all
      prowling around her and Harry. "Go away!" She shouted while picking
      up rocks and throwing them at the leopards. "Get out of here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cats were jumping away from the rocks but not backing down
      any.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mind began going off in dangerous directions. He turned
      to Hermione and said, "Cover me for a second."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Hermione yelped as Harry dropped to his knees. She
      hurriedly cast banishing charms at every leopard whether they were
      attacking or not. "What are you doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shh," Harry shushed while casting a series of various charms on
      the unattached left arm he was still holding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jumped back to his feet and knocked back a quietly
      approaching leopard. "You missed that one. It could've killed
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione turned to look at Harry in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now remember," Harry said. "Whatever happens, don't tell
      Sirius." And just like that, Harry chucked the extra appendage
      through the air like a stick for a dog. "Fetch!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All four leopards closest to them chased after the lightly
      blood-covered limb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Hermione just stood there watching as a fight quickly
      broke out for the arm. Two of the leopards each had an end and were
      wrestling in a vicious tug of war, while a third chomped down right
      in the middle, bending the arm at the elbow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No ear scratching or belly rubbing yet, right?" Sirius asked
      stealthily rejoining them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What took you so long?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello, splinch?" Sirius said pointing towards his empty sleeve.
      "I wasn't about to try apparating back to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well good," Harry said subtly glancing towards the leopards
      grouped together. "Because the sound of apparition is part of
      what's making them attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius began searching the ground around where they were
      standing. "What did you do with my arm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry flashed Hermione a look and innocently replied, "What
      arm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw the leopards were growling in a pitched battle for
      dominance and suddenly took notice of what they were battling over.
      "What the-… Oh my-… <em class="calibre8">Harry</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Sirius," Harry assured. "I tried everything I could,
      but you know how Hermione gets-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You threw it and yelled fetch," Hermione argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "No one likes a tattle tale."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was tempted to transform into his dog form but knew even
      if he managed it, he'd only have three legs and he'd be up against
      a pack of leopards. "Get me my arm back!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over and saw all of the leopards were now
      surrounding the arm, snapping their jaws, and swatting dangerously
      at each other. He glanced back at Sirius, "They really seem to like
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They could be starving, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's <em class="calibre8">my</em> arm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Harry said lifting his wand struggling to decide on what
      spell to use. Finally he sent a couple spanking hexes at the
      leopards and that just seemed to piss them off as two of them began
      to charge again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced back at Sirius. "You really need an extra arm? One
      could be plenty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit Harry," Sirius swore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh for Merlin's sake," Hermione grumbled. She swung her arm in
      a wide motion and lobbed a large conjured cantaloupe through the
      air. The mid-sized fruit landed right next to one of the leopards.
      Her second attempt collided with the back of a leopard that sent it
      whimpering off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good thinking," Harry agreed remembering when Hermione taught
      him this spell as well as the more draining version he preferred.
      He slashed his wand upward and swept his extended arm underhand,
      lobbing a conjured watermelon right next to the leopards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione and Harry repeated their motions raining down large
      round fruit and sending the leopards scampering in circles.
      Cantaloupe and watermelons were crashing into the leopards backs
      and bouncing off the ground in random directions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius could only look at his poor mauled arm in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know you could try summoning it while we distract them,"
      Harry suggested, sending another watermelon arcing through the
      night sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had his wand out and was attempting to summon his arm.
      "It's not working."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was about to give up on hiding his giggles. "Maybe the
      leopards haven't figured out anti-apparition yet but they've
      mastered anti-summoning charms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione cracked first and started laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius realized he'd been had. "You bitches."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry caught Hermione's eye and joined her in laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I really thought they were chewing my arm up," Sirius admitted,
      holding his remaining hand over his heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, about that…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Hermione explained. "I didn't see what Harry cast on
      your arm, but those leopards would have torn that thing to shreds
      by now if it wasn't protected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shoo!" Sirius called out. "Go away!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tall grass on the other side of the leopards began to sway
      and a violent thrashing was heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or at least stay over there," Sirius corrected, taking a step
      back and moving behind Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One last watermelon from Harry landed flush on a leopard's rump
      and it yelped out. All of the leopards then turned tail and ran
      leaving the arm behind as an afterthought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Hermione curiously, while staying alert looking
      for danger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shrugged. "They've been acting like a pack. I think we
      scared the leader away and the rest fell in line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over to see how confident she was in her
      theory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Hermione added uncertainly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius jogged up over to his un-summonable arm. "Dammit Harry.
      That's gonna leave a scar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did one shallow cut so a little blood would come out before I
      charmed it," Harry argued. "Most of that is just leopard
      slobber."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a deep gash not a shallow cut," Sirius pouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be so melodramatic," Harry chided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gasped loudly and fell backwards. "We should be dead."
      She mumbled to herself. "We should all be dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's melodramatic," Sirius said pointing towards Hermione.
      "I'm being reasonable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ignored his godfather and hurried over to Hermione.
      "What's going… <em class="calibre8">holy shit</em>! That thing is big. Is it
      dead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is insane," Hermione said shaking her head. "There's no
      way…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius walked to the edge of the high grass and saw what they
      were looking at. "Hey, nundu!" He glanced at Harry and walked right
      up to the massive beast. He rubbed his hand on its belly.
      "First."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's not a mark on it." Harry could see its eyes were still
      open but the magnificent creature was clearly no longer among the
      living. "What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's so soft," Sirius said rubbing the nundu's belly. "What is
      this thing? About four meters, you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Hermione had been shocked senseless and walked up to
      the head large enough to eat him in two bites. He pushed up the top
      lip and saw rows of sharp teeth. "It's still warm. I think this
      might be the pack leader and the reason the others ran away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione realized Harry was addressing her and nodded. "You're
      probably right. But what killed it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't see any blood," Sirius commented, lifting up the large
      tail and fighting his animagus urge to sniff the beast's rear end.
      "Heart attack?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wrapped his hands around the front teeth and slowly pulled
      the massive jaws apart. He slammed the mouth closed and looked up.
      The others looked at him inquisitively as he repeated the motion
      and looked in the nundu's mouth again. "You gotta be kiddin'
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "The nundu suffocated. It couldn't breathe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure?" Hermione asked, finally stepping up to giant
      magical mammal. She looked in as Harry held the jaws open.
      "Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius walked around the supposed most dangerous creature in the
      world and looked through the sharp jagged teeth. He barked out a
      laugh when he was able to see down the feline's throat. Sticking
      out the behind the swollen tongue was the top half of a large
      watermelon. "I should have guessed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't mean to kill it," Harry pleaded. "It was an
      accident."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no way," Hermione shook her head, still in disbelief.
      "A nundu has never been subdued with less than a hundred wizards.
      It's simply not possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned. "You don't know our Harry too well
      obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just wanted to ride on its back," Harry defended. "I didn't
      even know it was here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was running his fingers through its silky smooth thick
      fur. "I bet it's easier on your bits to ride something this soft."
      Sirius grabbed a handful of loose skin with his only arm and
      climbed his way on top of the nundu. "Oh yeah, this would be great…
      I mean if you hadn't killed it first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just looked at the nundu in sorrow before smiling
      slightly. "It is cool seeing one up this close."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius clambered to his feet and stood triumphantly atop the
      nundu. "I'm the king of the jungle. Top of the bad-ass chain." He
      was bouncing up and down, just trying to keep his balance. He
      looked down at the reflective multi-colored spots in the fur. "This
      thing is softer than my bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius, get down," Harry ordered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're just jealous I got up here first," Sirius countered
      bouncing higher and higher on the swollen belly of the beast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Hermione walking around to the front examining the
      thick whiskers on the nundu. Harry pleaded, "Sirius, I really don't
      think you should-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be such a baby," Sirius scolded while kicking his legs
      out with each successive jump as if he were on a trampoline.
      "What's the worst that could happen?"</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Harry slowly opened his eyes having recognized the familiar
      sterile smell of a hospital and the feel of starched sheets. He
      looked up and saw Sirius closing the door behind him. He glanced to
      his left and saw the other bed in the room was occupied by
      Hermione.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got muffins for everyone who's forgiven me," Sirius
      happily exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hah," Hermione indignantly scoffed without even looking up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said I was sorry," Sirius pleaded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got banana nut?" Harry asked, trying to remember exactly
      why he was hospitalized again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the spirit," Sirius cheered handing Harry a muffin.
      "What about you, Hermione? Cream cheese or blueberry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's anger deflated momentarily. "Did you say cream
      cheese?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius happily passed her a muffin and watched as she greedily
      took a bite and sighed in contentment. "I knew you forgave me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over and saw Hermione's hair looked a lot frizzier
      than he remembered and he was briefly reminded of his former best
      friend. "My memory is still a bit fuzzy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius agreed. "The healers said this might happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed Hermione wasn't as confused as him, but she was
      staying quiet. "I remember… oh crud. I remember a nundu. And… and
      watermelons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius said, plopping down into the chair next to
      Harry's bed, staying a safe distance away from Hermione. "Okay,
      listen. Since we're all going to heal and be just fine, I can
      safely tell you that it was… <em class="calibre8">hilarious</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My breasts are purple!" Hermione scolded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I told you I'll believe that when I see it," Sirius shouted
      back. He gently added, "Please?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione harrumphed and went back to giving Sirius the cold
      shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe later then," Sirius continued. "But I mean, have you ever
      seen those slow motion videos of a muggle standing in front of a
      cannon firing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry heard Hermione pout again and looked back at his
      godfather. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it was <em class="calibre8">just</em> like that," Sirius cheered. "The
      way Hermione's body crumpled and her eyes bugged out when that
      watermelon came shooting out of the nundu's mouth and slammed right
      into her stomach."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was growling softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And a little bit of her chest," Sirius corrected. "Or so she
      claims."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not showing you my tits," Hermione snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not what the Daily Prophet says," Sirius playfully
      whispered to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry questioned. "I mean… what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you say?" Hermione asked looking straight at
      Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Sirius defended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were supposed to bring the newspaper. Where is it?"
      Hermione demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "Not until you're nicer to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you just tell me why…" Harry paused. "Hang on. You were
      jumping up and down on the nundu. That's why the watermelon blasted
      out of the dead nundu's mouth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know that's one of those lines," Sirius idly commented,
      "that may never have been uttered before in all history."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So why am I hospitalized and you're not?" Harry asked. He
      looked over at Hermione, "You should've killed him not me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked at Sirius. "Day's not over yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway," Sirius avoided Hermione's eyes and continued. "As it
      turns out, it appears the watermelon that had been blocking the
      airway and suffocated the nundu also was holding back the last of
      the nundu's poisonous breath."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear," Harry commented as images came back to him. He turned
      to Hermione. "I threw up on you. Sorry about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was growling again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius agreed. "You two got the worst of the nundu's
      breath. I got my stomach pumped, arm attached, a couple potions,
      and released after an hour."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down at his left arm. "So why is my arm
      bandaged?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's Hermione's fault," Sirius said pointing his finger at
      the frowning young woman.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at her and saw no explanation or apology coming.
      "Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She wasn't crazy about being vomited on and shoved you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He tripped," Hermione argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe a little of both," Sirius agreed. "But you fell backwards
      right into the open mouth of our dead nundu friend. Impaled
      yourself on a fang."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's right," Harry remembered with a smile looking at the
      bandage. "This will be even better than a tattoo with the matching
      basilisk scar on my the other arm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was also when you managed to inhale the rest of the
      nundu's breath," Sirius added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyways, through my quick thinking," Sirius continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hah," Hermione scoffed again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew we needed your power to apparate us back to London. So I
      grabbed my arm, rounded up Hermione who was panicking-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I was entitled to a little panic after you cracked
      three of my ribs," Hermione explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And together we apparated into the lobby of St. Mungos," Sirius
      finished. "Which was especially entertaining, because you happened
      to bring the dead nundu you were impaled on with you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice," Harry cheered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it was great," Sirius laughed. "Two people just fainted
      right at the sight of you all bloody, hanging halfway out a
      gigantic nundu's mouth. I was swinging my splinched arm around,
      demanding help and poking people. And then you two both started
      convulsing… classic. Good times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Harry agreed and looked over to the horrified look
      on Hermione's face. "You okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was not excellent," Hermione shrieked. "That was not
      classic. That was stupid and that was dangerous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Po-tay-toe, Po-tah-toe," Sirius retorted. "Didn't you have
      fun?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione said. "You two even made my hair curl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I was wondering if I was remembering that
      right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It gets frizzy when I'm stressed or worried," Hermione
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew it," Harry triumphantly announced having always
      suspected he was to blame for that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius chuckled and jerked his thumb towards Harry. "Imagine
      going to school with this one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paled and shook her head. "My nerves would never have
      survived, let alone my hair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're made of stronger stuff than you think," Sirius assured
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione took that as a compliment and tried to smile. "May I
      please see the paper now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius reached into his inner robe pocket and asked, "May I
      please see-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione answered immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Sirius agreed and handed over the Daily Prophet.
      "Congratulations. We made the front page."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione accepted the paper and looked at the top article.
      <em class="calibre8">Nundu Hunt Successful: Two Lord Blacks and one Ministry
      employee were all it took to subdue the most dangerous magical
      creature known to wizardkind.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm convulsing in the picture," Hermione complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry's hanging out of the nundu's mouth <em class="calibre8">and</em>
      convulsing, so I don't think you really should be complaining,"
      Sirius argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione quickly scanned the article that made the supposed hunt
      sound far more dramatic and dangerous. Her name was mentioned
      several times as part of the trio of hunters but not in any way
      that offended her or made her sound bad. "This is all wrong, but I
      don't see why you didn't want me to read this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry briefly and quietly admitted, "There's
      another article on page three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the hesitancy in Sirius' statement and looked over at
      Hermione as she hurriedly opened the Prophet to page three.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What!" Hermione shrieked. "What the hell is this?" She
      continued to mumble to herself as she read through the article.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?" Harry asked Sirius since it appeared Hermione
      wasn't going to be helpful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Turns out we're gay lovers," Sirius said with a shrug. "Rita
      Skeeter seems to think we're both tops and that's how we both
      managed to get the title of Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry furrowed his brow. "What does that have to do with
      Hermione-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione interrupted as she loudly read, "<em class="calibre8">Once again
      thumbing their noses at tradition the Lords Black have chosen plain
      looking muggleborn Hermione Granger to carry their gay baby!</em>
      Who the hell does she think she is? Ohh, I am going to give this
      Rita Skeeter a piece of my mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gay baby?" Harry questioned. "That's not even proper writing.
      It makes it sound like our baby is gay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well if you're gay and I'm gay," Sirius argued. "Then there's
      no way I'm raising any hetero baby. Not if I have anything to say
      about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's our baby," Harry scolded. "You will love it no matter
      what."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See how easy that was?" Sirius grinned. "I'm the top, you're
      the bottom, acting like a sissy already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why aren't you more upset by this?" Hermione questioned,
      realizing Harry and Sirius were joking about the article.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Sirius and back at Hermione. "Because it's not
      true?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Sirius wavered. "They were right in that just the two of
      us went out and bought muggle pregnancy tests together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "You know that mixed with the whole dual Lords
      thing isn't really too much of a stretch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not the point," Hermione insisted. "These are outright
      boldfaced lies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to calm her. "Your picture is on the front page.
      People will know you're not plain looking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Hermione smiled at the compliment before going back
      on her angry rant. "But reporters can't just make up stories
      because they want to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius wagged his finger. "You weren't this upset even though
      you said the front page article was all wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if you want," Harry suggested. "I'm pretty sure Rita
      Skeeter has the illegal animagus form of a beetle. You could use
      that to blackmail her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two wrongs don't make a right," Hermione argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But seven lefts do," Sirius helpfully added earning a few odd
      looks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or you could capture her in her animagus form and keep her
      locked in a jar for a year," Harry offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned harshly. "Not even you idiots are that cruel.
      Kidnapping and holding her hostage for a year is more than a touch
      extreme."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Sirius and shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides," Hermione explained. "People would notice she was
      missing and be looking for her everywhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rubbed his chin in thought. "You'd think so, wouldn't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione shook her head decisively. "I'm going to write a
      letter to the editor and if they don't print a retraction then I'm
      going to pursue a civil suit against her and the Daily
      Prophet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was about to comment on how crazy that idea was when a
      healer entered the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our potions lab has just finished mixing your salve, Miss
      Granger," the healer said while handing her a decent sized white
      jar. "The bruising was extremely deep but rub this into the
      affected area twice a day and it should be gone within a week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Hermione replied. "So am I free to go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take it easy for the next day or so, but yes," the healer
      smiled as he turned to leave. "You are free to go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She ran into the bathroom and changed into her cleaned robes.
      When she came back out, she looked over at Harry and Sirius and
      realized this was goodbye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius offered, "If you need any help with that rubbing-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop." Hermione was fighting the urge to curse him and wondered
      just when she got so violent. "I know… well I suspect anyway, that
      you two had good intentions, but please… don't do me any more
      favors." She turned to walk out the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Harry called out. "At least you can appreciate your
      unfortunately boring life a bit more, now, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's face twitched at the phrase but found herself quickly
      agreeing with the sentiment. "Maybe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if you ever need a dose of excitement," Harry offered and
      given the look on her face added, "perhaps a smaller one, something
      like dinner, or a big brother to talk to the ex-boyfriend who can't
      take a hint. Just give us a shout, okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's face softened showing no real hard feelings. "Give me
      a couple years to think it over. Goodbye Harry, Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius waved goodbye as the Hermione of this world
      walked out of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There goes the mother of our gay baby," Sirius wistfully
      commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Sirius. "Whatever happened to the nundu?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smiled brightly. "All taken care of. And I broke into
      Hermione's place and left her a present in her living room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not the Padfoot kind," Sirius clarified. "She's got a brand
      new coffee table with four of the sturdiest legs with giant paws
      you'll ever see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "It should make for a good conversation
      piece."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great big nundu skin rug in front of the fire place," Sirius
      said with a lecherous grin. "And a mounted head that still has your
      blood on its teeth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled just picturing it. "<em class="calibre8">Man</em>, we're cool."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hard to believe we didn't completely win over Hermione yet,"
      Sirius agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Yeah, I'm not sure the Hermione of this world
      is prepared to live in ours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I know the Hermione I grew up with would definitely
      appreciate our efforts to loosen her up a bit." Harry frowned.
      "Assuming she wasn't completely jealous of her hair."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
