<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TWENTY, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 20</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure this is the place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "You remember the oculamagi spell I taught
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius grumbled. "But that one gives me a headache.
      Can't I just use the one I normally do? Or the omnioculars?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The one you normally use is the one built into the
      omnioculars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfect," Sirius cheered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many times do we have to do this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I like the omnioculars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do too," Harry agreed. "The omnioculars are great for heat
      signatures, seeing through solid objects, recording, playback,
      zooming, and settling arguments over estimated nipple size. But for
      seeing magic, only the simple and generic spells can be put on
      them. You could cast the same spell on a window, my glasses, or any
      other object. The spell I taught you goes deeper into optical
      perception for when you need to see the real differences in magics,
      the subtle nuances."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "This is going to be a learning experience,
      isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and besides, what I'm about to do could just about blind
      you if you used your spell. Now come on," Harry urged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was pouting but cast the spell over his eyes and turned
      towards Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Watch carefully," Harry said before clapping his hands
      together, sending out a wave of magic. Harry pointed over to their
      left. "There. Did you see it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked in the direction Harry pointed. "No, I didn't see
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look right there and pay attention," Harry said, clapping his
      hands together again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius blinked. "I missed it. Do it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry clapped out another heavier wave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius turned to Harry hopelessly and complained, "I don't see
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Turn around," Harry said as he clapped and sent a wave behind
      them. "See how various spots appear dependent on their innate
      absorption of the magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sort of," Sirius agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now look this way," Harry said repeating the gesture in the
      original direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No spots?" Sirius asked. "That's what I'm supposed to see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "That is the sign of a weakened Fidelius
      charm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you possibly see-" Sirius quickly changed directions
      realizing what Harry said. "We're breaking down a
      <em class="calibre8">Fidelius</em>? I didn't think that was possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It only works when the secret keeper is dead," Harry explained.
      "If you know the general area, you can find a spot that's hiding
      magic, then you flood the surroundings, and you can locate the
      keystone. If the secret keeper is alive though, you won't get
      anything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long did it take you to find this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Long enough," Harry said walking up to where he believed the
      Fidelius to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you're sure this place is abandoned?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "It's an old bunker Grindelwald used for human
      experimentation. Some wizards, mainly women and children
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius turned to stare at Harry. "Well that's pleasant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I'm going to flood the area. You should see the
      anchor stones start to light up. The red one is the keystone. When
      you know where the keystone is, blast the bloody hell out of it.
      Once it's moved enough, the Fidelius will come crashing down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius felt a headache forming but nodded, keeping his eyes
      open. "Do it to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast a large scale net and began to expel wild unformed
      magic. On the scale required, Harry knew it would be tiring but was
      confident he could manage it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anytime you're ready," Sirius chided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got the easy part," Harry whined as his body began to
      tremble. He kept funneling more and more magic into his net, trying
      to ignore the exhaustion he felt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want some sex to go with that wine?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted before grunting under the effort. "Don't make me
      laugh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius happily taunted. "Well then probably shouldn't look at
      my-<em class="calibre8">ooof</em>!" Sirius crumpled to the ground as an invisible
      arm punched him in the crotch. Sirius' voice went up two octaves
      and squeaked out, "You bastard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," Harry said, closing his eyes trying not to lose his
      hold on the net. "Come on, hurry up and blast it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took his sweet time getting back up, easily spotting the
      five anchor stones glowing brightly as the magic of the net became
      thicker. One of the points of the pentagon had turned pink and was
      unmistakably the keystone. "None of them are red yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keep… looking," Harry wheezed, forcing more magic out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does dark pink count for anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padfoot!" Harry snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Sirius grumbled as he carefully aimed his wand and fired
      four quick blasting curses one after the other. The sudden precise
      jolt shifted the keystone just enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The air around them lit up brightly and Harry finally let go of
      his hold on the magical net. "Oh, thank Merlin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius watched entranced as multi-colored sparks began to wink
      in and out of existence through the air. It started slowly with
      just a few specks here and there before turning into a shower of
      magic crashing down. A loud crack echoed around the clearing and a
      thick metal door was visible where there used to be none.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're sure this thing is empty?" Sirius asked walking up to
      the rusty door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Harry panted out, hunched over, catching his breath. He
      dug up a pepper-up potion and swallowed it down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?" Sirius asked. "Is the door booby-trapped?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said shaking his head. "There's nothing on the door.
      Probably so you'll relax and let your guard down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we're not going in the door?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we are," Harry said standing up and opening the door.
      "Just… how do feel about the sound of children screaming while
      being burnt alive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry oddly. "I suppose I would be against the
      sound of burning, screaming children."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waved Sirius on down the concrete stairwell. "If this is
      anything like I expect, then… well, remember how I said Grindelwald
      used this for experimentation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stopped and looked at Harry. "There's really creepy stuff
      and creepy kids in here, aren't there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some of the experiments didn't exactly die. Frankly, I'm not
      sure they could. And it's very possible they've…" Harry's voice
      dropped and he mumbled the words, "bendurned inna livinafury."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mind repeating that so that I can understand it?" Sirius
      insisted. "You know I'm not moving until you do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was saying it's likely there are mutated living Inferi
      children just inside that door," Harry said pointing towards the
      end of the corridor they were in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Living Inferi?" Sirius repeated incredulously. "Why do dark
      wizards have to keep out-eviling each other?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "For the same reason they also act like
      peacocks, trying to be more dignified and slick talking than
      everyone else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "Uncontrollable homosexual urges?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking daddy issues," Harry replied. "But that was as
      good an answer as any."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fire kills them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dark wizards? Usually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not dark wizards," Sirius grumbled. "The living Inferi."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh them. Yeah, fire holds them back," Harry explained. "I'm not
      so sure they can be destroyed considering the body keeps moving
      even if you cut off the head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lovely," Sirius commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swirled his wand creating a fire whip that encircled and
      protected his body. "I'll go for the cube. You make sure the door
      doesn't close behind us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius copied Harry's motion and was also surrounded by a spiral
      of fire. "I can do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Ready?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded back, keeping a constant distance between them, so
      as not to burn each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go," Harry called out swinging the door open and running into
      the dark chamber. He sent a lumos charm up to the ceiling
      illuminating the room, as several decaying zombie like young girls
      all came to life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stood just inside the door, watching a dozen of the
      creatures focus their attention on Harry. He sent off a couple of
      basic incendio charms when a half dozen of the freakish zombie
      children turned towards him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius winced as they started screaming but kept coming. He
      glanced over and saw Harry vault up the first step towards the
      altar at the end of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took one step up the stairs when a blue spell came zipping
      out of the darkness and rammed into his abdomen with the force of a
      dozen bludgers. His cloak absorbed some of the impact but he was
      launched bodily through the air sliding to a stop halfway between
      the altar and Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groaned in extreme pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" Sirius asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not… part… of the plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw the Inferi started chattering nonsensically and were
      quickly converging on Harry. "Dammit," he swore, turning to the
      nearest Inferi. He released the ring of fire surrounding him and
      cast a cutting curse straight at the young girl's neck, slicing
      cleanly through. A banishing charm sent her body flying backwards
      and he quickly grabbed her slimy head by the hair. He positioned it
      as a makeshift doorstop holding the metal chamber's exit open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius charged towards Harry letting loose fire charms and whips
      the whole way. "Stay down!" he ordered sending waves of fire
      straight over the top of Harry's body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a problem," Harry wheezed, grateful for the assistance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as Sirius was close enough, he re-cast the ring of fire
      to protect himself and Harry from the screaming Inferi
      children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You okay?" Sirius asked noticing Harry had started to sit up
      before collapsing back to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why is it always my ribs that break?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius answered right away. "Because your arm or leg would be
      much harder to deal with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled over onto his belly. "Good point." He was able to
      push himself up and smiled weakly at his godfather. "Thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius pulled Harry up to his feet. "I didn't see what happened.
      Just saw you doing your impression of a watermelon in a nundu's
      mouth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Harry commented putting pressure on his lower
      ribcage. He looked through the flames of Sirius' protection as a
      scraggly ancient looking figure emerged from the shadows. "What the
      fuck…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw the pale withered looking man catch the light of the
      lumos above. His flesh was similar to the Inferi, decaying
      horribly. He had an empty eye socket that appeared to be a black
      bottomless pit. "Does that guy look familiar to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old twisted man's posture shifted into a much more imposing
      stance. He lifted a thin bony hand and another blue spell erupted
      straight from his palm headed straight for the Lord Blacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's invisible magical arms grabbed the nearest mutant Inferi
      and held it up in the path of the curse. It exploded with a wet
      shower of pungent decay as the half-blocked spelled collided with
      them both.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' fire shield dissipated as they were knocked to the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fuck," Sirius grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hurriedly cast three incendiary spells setting the nearest
      approaching Inferi alight with purple flames. "Get that fire shield
      around us," Harry instructed as he cast a strong magical shield to
      deflect the next powerful blue spell headed their way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sent a line flames spiraling around them, preventing any
      Inferi from reaching them as the old zombie wizard's spell
      reflected off Harry's shield and crashed into the ceiling. "Who or
      what is that thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sent a blasting curse at the wispy old silent man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pale figure just held the same hand up and absorbed the
      incoming spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," Harry swore. He glanced at Sirius and made sure the
      Inferi weren't getting to close. "What it is, I'm really not sure.
      But who… well… I think that's the body of Grindelwald."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Sirius squeaked glancing at the man sending another blue
      spell their way. "I thought Dumbledore killed him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head and answered quietly over the still
      screaming young female Inferi. "Not sure about this world, but in
      ours, Dumbledore defeated him. He just didn't exactly kill
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What'd he do?" Sirius asked flinching as another blue spell got
      a bit too close for comfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Albus' portrait didn't know the exact magic,
      and even if it did, it wouldn't have told me. But I'm pretty sure
      he sort of… eradicated his soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, is that all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "If the same thing happened here, and someone
      were to have tried resurrecting him, unaware of the condition of
      the former Dark Lord's everlasting soul, well," Harry nodded
      towards the decaying old wizard. "I reckon that might be what
      happens. No soul, no mind, just a dumb, powerful semi-animated
      weapon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Think we can take him?" Sirius questioned, sending flames
      towards more nearing Inferi.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry deflected another blue spell into far wall. It let out a
      loud clang as it hit and the whole chamber shook. Harry sighed. "I
      think we better try soon or he's going to bring this bunker down on
      top of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't suppose they forgot to protect the cube from
      summoning?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "It looks like it takes the Grindel-zombie
      a second or two to absorb spells, and he's chained to the wall. The
      closer we get the harder it'll be to avoid those impact blasts. On
      the plus side, that's all it seems able to cast." Harry turned
      towards the loud Inferi that kept coming. He shouted back, "And at
      least he's not screaming like these other bitches!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw how irritated Harry was getting and asked, "Feel
      better now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." Harry frowned. "<em class="calibre8">Shit</em>!" He hurriedly tried to
      block the blue spell, just barely getting a shield up in time,
      though he was knocked off his feet, dangerously close to the flames
      of Sirius' fire cage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Careful," Sirius warned holding Harry back and helping him to
      his feet. "We're over-thinking this one," Sirius said, canceling
      his ring of fire and tossing Harry his wand. "Cover me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snatched the wand from midair as Sirius transformed into
      his animagus form and began to run straight towards the poorly
      animated corpse of Grindelwald. Harry used Sirius' wand to cast a
      fire whip that he swung over his head like a lasso, fending off
      screeching Inferi children, while he used his own wand to send
      spell after spell towards Grindelwald.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The decrepit wraith-like thing was too busy absorbing spells
      from Harry to cast anything at the large black dog sprinting
      towards him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius bounded up the steps and leapt onto the altar. He grabbed
      Ravenclaw's cube in his mouth as his momentum took him sliding off
      the back side of the altar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was trying to hold back all the Inferi while still raining
      spells down on Grindelwald but he was tiring too quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A blue spell rocketed at Sirius' back but the animagus was
      running in so many random directions that it flew past, missing him
      and crashed into the ground. Unfortunately the canine's surprise at
      the close call took him right into the path of Harry's fire whip.
      There was a loud sizzle as it burnt Sirius' tail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had a mouthful of founder's artifact and could only
      whimper and whine as he barreled by Harry. He leapt straight over
      the slimy Inferi girl's head still serving as a door stop and was
      clear of the hazardous chamber.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Grindelwald's body seemed to be turning greener and
      shaking from all the magic it had absorbed. His instincts were
      telling him something bad was about to happen. He turned and ran
      right after Sirius, kicking the girl's head out of the way, as the
      heavy metal door clanged shut when an impact spell slammed into
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had transformed back and was rubbing his bottom with a
      painful wince. "You burnt my tail."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not now," Harry snapped, pulling Sirius with him as he dashed
      for the exit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius felt the bunker begin to shake and realized Harry running
      away was a sign he should be running too. He gripped the cube
      tighter and took the stairs three at a time up and out of the
      bunker.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swung the metal door shut and pulled the handle sealing it
      closed. He relaxed momentarily and saw Sirius was as winded as he
      was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ground rumbled threateningly and Sirius looked at Harry.
      "Maybe we should…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good idea," Harry agreed and the two of them started to run
      further away from the bunker as the entire forest shook from the
      massive underground explosion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The metal door was launched high into the air as a column of
      pungent black and brown flames kissed the tree tops.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had tumbled to the ground, right near Sirius and was
      watching the night sky. He pointed out the falling door as it came
      crashing down, landing with a thud embedded into the soil.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry once again let out the breath he had been holding and laid
      back tiredly. "What was that <em class="calibre8">cover me</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It worked, didn't it?" Sirius said handing the cube to
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry accepted one of Rowena Ravenclaw's less famous inventions
      and wondered if it had ever been coated in so much dog slobber
      before. "Yeah, it did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't have to burn my tail," Sirius grumbled rubbing his
      sore bottom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "And you didn't have to force me to cover you
      with my broken ribs without giving me a second's pause."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Again with the whining," Sirius chided with a smile. "No one
      likes a wimp, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grumbled. "Come on. Let's drop this off at home and get to
      St. Mungos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stood up and helped Harry to his feet. "We really should
      look into hiring our own healer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grunted his assent. "That's actually a good idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' eyes glittered mischievously. "I bet Sarah would make a
      house call for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Die."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Mmm," Tonks moaned happily. "I swear the house elves must
      hide the good ice cream for you because it was never this tasty
      when I was a student."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily licked her spoon and asked, "What flavor you got
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks turned her tub around to look at the handwritten label.
      "Butterscotch Fudge Chunk Delight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is a good one," Lily said snagging a spoonful from Tonks'
      tub. "Try this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks scooped a heaping spoonful of swirled pink and white from
      Lily's tub. She put it in her mouth and let out a contented sigh.
      "That's nummy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cherry Marshmallow Cheesecake," Lily announced, pointing at her
      tub. "This one's low fat frozen yogurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not low fat," Tonks argued. "No way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what the house elves tell me," Lily insisted. She tried
      to hide her little smirk as she added, "Although, I may have
      instructed the house elves to lie to me a little bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks pat her chest a little bit and let out a loud echoing
      belch. "Wow. That even tasted good the second time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily raised a curious eyebrow. "Are you challenging the
      champion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's see what you got," Tonks taunted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily opened her mouth and swallowed a gulp of air. She raised
      her hand and repeated with another gulp before letting loose a deep
      reverberating burp, more than twice as loud and long as Tonks' had
      been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A house elf appeared with a pop. "Did youse call for me, Missum
      Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks had to look away, because she was struggling to hold back
      her laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily waved off the confused and curious elf. "No, Irma. If I
      did, I didn't mean to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Okays," Irma the house elf happily replied and popped
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks gave up holding back and outright laughed at Lily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily raised an arm in victory. "Still the King."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You summoned a house elf," Tonks said through her snickering.
      "That's a magical gift if I've ever seen one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a gift," Lily insisted. "It took years and years of
      practice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James must be so proud," Tonks said, wiping away a fake tear.
      She grabbed another spoonful from Lily's tub.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily shook her head. "He'd probably ask Madame Pomfrey to give
      me a check-up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your husband doesn't know?" Tonks gasped and mischievously
      grinned. "What to do with this morsel of blackmail. What to
      do…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will do nothing," Lily said, shaking her spoon at Tonks.
      "Unless you want your Dad to hear about how lovely your graduation
      party really was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh lordy," Tonks happily recalled. "One of these days it'll be
      you calling me to bring clothes and bail money. Then, then I shall
      I regain the upper hand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily smiled. "Just think how much you've matured since those
      days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks sighed. "I really don't have any good blackmail material
      on you, do I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily shook her head proudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got tons on Sarah," Tonks idly commented. "But nothing
      juicy on you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got-" Lily had to pause and squint, tilting to the side
      as she passed gas. "You've got what on Sarah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nuh-uh," Tonks retorted. "It does me no good if I were to tell
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on," Lily urged, letting out another squeaking fart. "You
      can tell me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe once the statute of limitations has passed," Tonks
      cruelly hinted. She made a face and leaned back, "You're putting
      some stink out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily shrugged unconcerned. "Ice cream always gives me the
      toots."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of the toots," Tonks smoothly segued. "What did you
      and Harry talk about when you two snuck off?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily smirked. "Why Tonks Lupin, do I sense…
      <em class="calibre8">jealousy</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh please," Tonks shook her head. "You're the last person I'd
      be jealous of when it concerns Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's that supposed to…" Lily stopped as her eyes widened.
      "You know!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks blanched and tried to backtrack. "Know? Know what? What
      did he tell you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know why we both feel weird around each other," Lily
      insisted. "You know what he's hiding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what you're talking about," Tonks lied
      unconvincingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily didn't believe her. "Phooey. He's your Lord too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks shook her head. "He only plays the Lord card when it's
      advantageous for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course you know what he's hiding," Lily realized. "You've
      slept with him enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure 'enough' is a word I would've ever used," Tonks
      said with a grin. Her smile faltered, suddenly remembering who she
      was talking to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Lily cajoled. "What's it like? Rough? Gentle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks began to feel uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he big?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks began to feel really uncomfortable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh relax," Lily said swatting Tonks' shoulder at the face she
      was making. "I would never cheat on James. But that doesn't mean
      you can't share all the juicy, carnal details."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's… fine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's more than fine," Lily argued. "Or you wouldn't have kept
      coming back, what is it, three, maybe four times?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A few more than that," Tonks admitted. "But it's not what you
      think. He's a friend. We go out drinking. Some nights, I'll meet
      someone. Some nights, I won't. It's the same for him. And on some
      of those nights when neither of us is going home with someone,
      we'll just… go home together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you say so," Lily half-heartedly agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Every unattached girl should have a spare wand she can call on
      when she needs it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily innocently asked, "And just how many inches is that spare
      wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks chortled at having walked into that one. "You are
      horrible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just looking out for my girl," Lily grinned. "You know I
      consider you family."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Tonks grinned, tilting to the side as she too let out
      a little flatulence. "It's just… <em class="calibre8">weird</em> talking to you
      about Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why is it weird?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just…" Tonks stopped herself from saying too much. "Never
      mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the one who brought him up," Lily pointed out, scraping
      the bottom of her tub for one last spoonful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I wanted to know what <em class="calibre8">you</em> thought of him," Tonks
      argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But not because you're feeling protective or jealous over him,"
      Lily said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No more protective or jealous than I would over Jimmy," Tonks
      assured her. "Like you said, we're family. And so is Harry." Tonks
      quickly added, "For me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I certainly hope you don't have the same sort of feelings for
      Jimmy that you do for Harry," Lily warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He <em class="calibre8">has</em> gotten pretty cute," Tonks playfully
      commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tonks!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just kidding," Tonks assured her raising both hands in
      surrender. "In case you forgot, I changed more than a couple of
      Jimmy's diapers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily grumbled. "You probably changed more than his father
      did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if you really want to know," Tonks said. "I was asking what
      you thought of Harry, so that I could make fun of him, next time I
      see him. Not because I'm jealous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily was scrutinizing Tonks trying to figure out what exactly
      that implied. "Truthfully, I'm not sure what to make of him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a good guy," Tonks assured her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's definitely cute," Lily admitted. "In some ways he reminds
      me of how I envisioned James to be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks knew she was treading into dangerous territory. "Really?"
      she said unable to keep the squeak from her voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily nodded. "You never really knew us that well before we lost
      our Harry, but James was a lot more…" she paused trying to think of
      the best word. "Happy. He laughed all the time and got into a lot
      of harmless trouble. When he was with Sirius, not your Lord, but
      Harry's godfather Sirius… those two caused so much havoc. Kinda
      like the way the two Lord Blacks are, now that I think about
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks smiled sadly, silently urging Lily to continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never realized just how much of that was Sirius' influence on
      him," Lily admitted. "Losing Harry was enough to break both of us,
      but losing his best friend too… it was like James decided he had to
      grow up in an instant. In some ways, I think he blamed Sirius as
      much as he blamed himself for Harry's death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks nodded. "I've heard some stories from Dad and seen
      pictures, but even still it's hard to imagine James that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I love my husband dearly," Lily agreed. "But even I, sometimes,
      think he needs a little more…" She swallowed another mouthful of
      air and let loose a thick, guttural burp.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks snickered happily. "You are the King."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two women looked up as Sarah Potter walked in the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah saw her mother and Tonks lying on opposites ends of the
      couch in Lily Potter's staff quarters. She sniffed the air twice
      and frowned. "Have you been eating ice cream?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks and Lily both just laughed in response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it Dad's not here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily shook her head. "He's working late tonight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well in that case," Sarah looked both ways and pushed out her
      stomach as she let fly a fart that put even Lily's belching to
      shame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good lord," Tonks snickered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been holding that in since lunch," Sarah explained as she
      walked over towards the chill-cabinet and grabbed a tub of ice
      cream.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Lily smiled weakly. "At that, my daughter is the
      King."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It sounded like you were drowning a kelpie," Tonks vividly
      described.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me about it," Sarah grumbled plopping down into the empty
      chair. "You know, one time, I actually summoned a house elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks just laughed and pointed at Lily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How was your day?" Lily asked, not in the mood to explain to
      her daughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tiring," Sarah said digging into her tub of Double Mocha Peanut
      Butter. "I think I pissed Poppy off. She made me clean and organize
      the entire store room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Better than bedpan duty," Tonks offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't remind me," Sarah said with a grimace. Her face
      brightened as she turned to Tonks, "But I ran into someone very
      interesting at the Hog's Head the other night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah?" Tonks asked glancing towards Lily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah smiled devilishly and she swallowed a mouthful of ice
      cream. "A certain adorably cute Lord Harry Black was flirting with
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Tonks scoffed out before she could stop herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily and Sarah both turned towards Tonks. Lily smirked, "Care to
      revise your opinion on jealousy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks opened her mouth, unable to think of what to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax," Sarah assured her. "Nothing happened. Not that I was
      opposed to the idea, but he got all freaked out when he realized
      who I was and who my parents were. Thanks a lot for that, Mum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The relief on Tonks' face was clear as day. Lily noticed it and
      asked, "If it's not jealousy-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not," Tonks interjected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then it must be that something else you know," Lily added.
      "Care to share?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks bit her bottom lip and added, "You know what? Let's go
      with jealousy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're no fun," Lily pouted and turned towards her daughter.
      "And you, young lady, need to stop thinking about Lord Harry Black
      that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's going on?" Sarah asked, waggling her spoon between Tonks
      and her mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's something funny about him," Lily explained and saw
      Tonks wasn't going to be forthcoming. "Tonks knows what it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?" Sarah asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks shook her head. "No way. My lips are sealed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you <em class="calibre8">do</em> know his secrets," Lily grinned
      victoriously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks pretended to zip her lips shut and shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two female Potters were all set to pounce on Tonks, who was
      increasingly feeling as if she were cornered. She was saved by the
      appearance of James Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been doing paperwork for seven hours straight," James
      complained as he walked into his wife's quarters. "And I… good
      lord. What's that smell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily flashed a look at Tonks and Sarah, calmly answering, "Your
      son let off a dung bomb earlier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James shook his head. "I swear it's those Lord Blacks. They're a
      bad influence on him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what? It's late," Tonks said jumping up. "I should get
      going. See you tomorrow, boss. Night Lily, Sarah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good night, Tonks," James said as she hurried out the portrait.
      He walked back towards the bedroom taking off his wand holsters as
      he went. He stuck his head back in the front room and added
      distastefully, "It was a super dung bomb, wasn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lily had to gulp and cover her mouth to hide her amusement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James smiled at his wife, turning back towards the bedroom. "You
      and your dainty little burps."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Bellatrix cast a lumos charm, illuminating the darkened room.
      "Huh."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Hundreds of portraits covered all four walls like a rogue's
      gallery of angry and disgruntled stares.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that's… different."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's a Black," Phineas Nigellus announced from his frame by
      the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you come to help us?" a harsh looking old woman asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix frowned. "Help you? Help you with what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She doesn't know," Phineas explained, narrowing his eyes at
      Bellatrix. "Those two Lords of yours have locked and bound us all
      to our frames."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix looked around the room recognizing many names and
      families, suddenly putting two and two together. "Ohhh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Phineas mocked. "Oh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think I'm supposed to be in here," Bellatrix admitted.
      She saw the look on Phineas' face and added, "And what are you
      doing here? You're a Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those thieves are trying to enslave portraits' loyalty to
      create some sort of cockamamie spy network," Phineas explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you're a Black," Bellatrix repeated. "Weren't you painted
      and charmed to the family?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of his portraits was," Harry answered from the door. "But
      that's the frame I swiped from the Headmaster's office at
      Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Bellatrix turned around and saw Harry did not look
      pleased. "I'm not supposed to be here, am I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You shouldn't have even been able to find this room," Harry
      said with a frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I asked Kreacher if there were any other rooms to explore and
      he led me here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kreacher!" Harry shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher didn't appear with a pop but slowly walked down the
      hall, grumbling to himself stopping outside the door. "Stupid
      mudblood Master. Yelling louder. Kreacher doesn't care. Punish
      Kreacher. Kreacher will make babies cry-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up," Harry ordered forcefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Master," Kreacher acquiesced despite being clearly proud of
      his actions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was tempted to just punt the troublesome servant but
      restrained himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix suggested, "I'll kill him, if you don't want to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused to consider the offer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm trying to quit smoking, drinking, and the Unforgivables for
      the duration of my pregnancy, but one little curse here and there
      shouldn't hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over at Bellatrix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or you could just obliviate him," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher looked up in surprise. "You know how to memory charm
      house elves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>," Harry instinctually cast on Kreacher. "I
      really wish people would stop saying that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's up?" Sirius asked walking down the hall. He saw
      Bellatrix looked ashamed. "What's she doing here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kreacher led her here," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought he couldn't even get in," Sirius said, keeping his
      guard up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked over at Bellatrix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He probably can't," Bellatrix admitted. "He snapped his fingers
      opening the door when I couldn't see it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced at Bellatrix warily and whispered to Harry, "Does
      she…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think she's probably figured it out," Harry skeptically
      replied, wondering if his godfather was drunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're thieves!" a portrait shouted. "The pureblood
      bandits!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Death Eater bandits," Sirius shouted back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's never been proven," almost two dozen portraits screamed
      back in unison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who are you trying to convince?" Sirius argued loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Umm… guys?" Bellatrix interjected. "My Lords?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled Sirius away and shut the door to the portrait room,
      silencing all the extra voices immediately. He turned to Bellatrix
      expectantly. "Hmm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know I've sworn loyalty," Bellatrix said. "But if it's all
      the same to you, I think you should obliviate me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius looked at each other in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't want me to know this, I didn't want me to know this,
      and I think we're all better off if I don't know this," she
      explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius just stared at Bellatrix waiting for the
      catch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Idiot Masters probably can't even cast a memory charm,"
      Kreacher grumbled to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up you wretched little turdnugget," Sirius snapped. "We've
      obliviated you plenty!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher's head snapped up. "You know how to memory charm-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Obliviate</em>," Harry tiredly cast on the disgruntled
      house elf. "God dammit Sirius. You make me do that too many times
      and it'll fry his brain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced at the glassy-eyed elf. "And that would be bad
      why exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth before snapping it shut with a click. He
      looked at Kreacher and instructed, "Go to the top floor and clean
      the attic. Don't leave that floor unless we call for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher popped away instantly, unable to creatively interpret
      such a clear and specific order.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That bugger's become a liability," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" Remus yelled out from the living room. "Sirius? Harry?
      Bellatrix? Anyone home?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go stall Moony," Harry instructed. "I'll obliviate her and be
      right out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh come on, I wanted to," Sirius begged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Bellatrix. "Your call."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," she said immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good call," Harry said with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bitch," Sirius snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're just jealous because she likes me more than you," Harry
      retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned before smiling and patting Harry on the back.
      "Thanks Harry. I feel better when you put it like that." Sirius
      turned and walked towards the living room. "I'm here, Moony!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix sighed. "You're never going to like me, are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "To be honest at this point, it doesn't have
      much to do with you. We just like <em class="calibre8">not liking</em> you.
      Although, I do know one way you could get into me and Sirius' good
      graces…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah?" Bellatrix asked hopefully. "Actually, why don't you tell
      me <em class="calibre8">after</em> obliviating me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point," Harry agreed, drawing his wand, and freezing her
      in place.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Hey Padfoot," Remus greeted. "Where is everybody? Bellatrix
      wasn't in her room."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Sirius said scratching his chin. "You think she
      rejoined the Death Eaters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Remus tiredly said, showing he was not amused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh relax," Sirius said. "Harry's with her. They just had to do
      something real quick. They'll be out in a second."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did they have to do?" Remus asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius hesitated for a moment, trying to think of a suitably
      funny and insulting response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padfoot," Remus sighed. "Just tell me the truth. Is it about
      the baby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Sirius answered immediately. "It's about the baby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're lying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Sirius replied without pause. "I'm lying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to check on her," Remus said getting worried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Sirius said stopping him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't interrupt them," Sirius said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I'm supposed to stall you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it," Remus decided. "I'm checking on her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How you doing, Moony?" Harry said walking into the living
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Remus asked. "What did you do to her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned at Sirius. "What did you tell him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Sirius insisted. "I was just stalling him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know telling someone you're stalling them," Harry
      criticized, "is poor stalling technique."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lying didn't work too well either," Sirius admitted with a
      shrug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will someone just give me a straight answer," Remus whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had to obliviate her," Harry said. "That's all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Remus asked in confusion. "Why would you obliviate
      her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I asked him to," Bellatrix replied entering the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There you are," Remus said in relief. "Wait, why would you ask
      him to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix shrugged. "If I knew the answer to that, then he
      probably didn't do a very good job obliviating me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus frowned. "And you're okay with that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're my Lords," Bellatrix admitted with a shrug. "If they
      were willing, I'm sure I had a good reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want to watch a movie?" Harry asked Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius said. "Moony's probably just going to poke the
      little fetus in the eye. Put up a silencing charm, would you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're not gonna-" Remus defended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix interjected. "We're not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus quickly looked at her and shut up. He weakly added, "Never
      mind," as Bellatrix dragged him up to her room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just shook his head. "That's one fucked up couple."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are quite the matchmaker," Harry said as they walked into
      the muggle room with their home theater.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius flopped down into the couch. "Yeah. When my pranks
      backfire, they backfire big."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, I said I'd give her a shot to get in our good
      graces," Harry said peering around the corner towards Bellatrix's
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius paused to think it over and asked, "She's getting a new
      face?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head and cast a spell on her bedroom door.
      "Nope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Immediately, the sounds coming from the bedroom were magnified
      and echoing throughout Grimmauld Place. Bodies shifting and moving
      could be heard quite clearly in the midst of some heavy
      breathing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you want, I still have that memory," Sirius said recalling
      the time he'd silently observed them waiting for Remus to notice
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shh," Harry shushed, listening in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Remus," Bellatrix moaned happily. "Oh… <em class="calibre8">Moony</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius made a face and quietly asked, "She calls him Moony?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held up a hand, urging Sirius to stay quiet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Bellatrix," Remus moaned her name out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Umm…" Bellatrix stopped. "Never mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Remus asked worriedly. "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's nothing," Bellatrix assured him. "Keep going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it the baby?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no," Bellatrix answered immediately. "It's just…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Remus asked, clearly awaiting an answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's… well…" Bellatrix sighed. "You're pronouncing my name
      wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry who held up a finger to shush him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm pronouncing it wrong?" Remus asked weakly. "But I've always
      pronounced it Bellatrix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's alright," Bellatrix assured him. "I don't really mind that
      much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus was perturbed. "Well then how do you pronounce it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to glance at Sirius while Bellatrix's voice got all
      husky and sexy. "It's pronounced… Billy-trucks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Billy," Bellatrix heaved out the name as she slapped Remus on
      the ass. "Trucks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Billy-trucks?" Remus repeated in disbelief. "Since when?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's always been pronounced Billy-trucks," Bellatrix assured
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Always been…" Remus stopped and put two and two together.
      "Harry!" he shouted at the top of his lungs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius winced at the loud shout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Silencing charm?" Bellatrix reminded just as Harry turned
      around and canceled the spell on her door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus came bursting out of her room, wrapped in only a sheet.
      "Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was shushing Sirius who was biting his tongue, trying not
      to laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's up Moony?" Harry asked innocently. "Billy-trucks not
      giving you any trouble, I hope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Remus scolded. "She trusted you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that wasn't very smart," Sirius mumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Billy-trucks," Harry greeted looking over Remus shoulder. "You
      know what this is about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix stood there completely naked. "No idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is about," Remus started before noticing Bellatrix was
      naked and Sirius was staring. "Put something on!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know you're a Black, Billy-trucks," Harry said. "You don't
      have to take orders like that from anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop calling her that," Remus snapped. "Her name is
      Bellatrix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I know my own name," Bellatrix said with a frown,
      putting her hands on her hips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you need to put some clothes on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think it's impressive Remus still has an erection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think…" Harry paused and turned back to Sirius. "Really? The
      erection is what you're thinking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix raised her hand. "It's what I'm thinking about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded with a smile. "Okay now I'm thinking about
      Billy-trucks again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop thinking about her," Remus squeaked turning around and
      trying to block Bellatrix from view. "Your name is Bellatrix. Harry
      obliviated you and is playing a cruel joke."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure?" Bellatrix asked skeptically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I'm sure," Remus insisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix tilted her head curiously. "You don't think maybe I'm
      pranking you, trying to get them to like me better?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I-" Remus stopped at the smile on her face and saw Harry
      and Sirius were grinning brightly. "Oh… oh, you're good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And naked too," Sirius cheered with a big thumbs up.
      "Fantastic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus could tell he'd been had and found himself smiling as much
      as everyone else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix looked down to where Remus was holding the sheet up.
      She put a hand on his chest and softly raked her nails down. "Are
      you thinking what I'm thinking?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am," Sirius answered confidently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do believe so," Remus opened up his sheet and pulled
      Bellatrix's naked body up next to his so that they could both be
      wrapped up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched them wiggle back towards Bellatrix's room. He
      picked up the remote and saw Sirius was still grinning. "Old naked
      horny people can be pretty cute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius admitted before his face contorted. "Wait no.
      We're supposed to hate her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We like Moony," Harry offered. "And we like naked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius seemed to accept that rationalization. "I guess that
      makes it okay."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Albus had been sitting in his office, pondering the mystery
      of the Lords Black. The Dark Lord Voldemort had been tentative in
      his actions for several months. But ever since the Dark Lord's very
      public defeat at their hands, he'd essentially disappeared
      completely. Without the need for reactions to the Dark Lord's
      actions, Albus had a lot more time to spend musing on the enigmatic
      young Heads to the Black family.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus had been unable to locate any information on their past at
      all. He was nearly certain they weren't from anywhere in the United
      Kingdom, but he had yet to find any indication on where they came
      from. Even their accents seemed genuine, though Albus knew that
      could be accomplished through magic. No accredited schools of magic
      reported any former students matching either of their
      descriptions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was almost as if they didn't exist until a couple months
      ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their behavior and interaction with others, in particular the
      Lupins and Potters, was intriguing, but both of those families had
      recent history with the Blacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus felt there was something he was missing but he couldn't
      quite put it all together. His silent musings were interrupted by a
      whistle and burst of smoke from one of the many objects cluttering
      his desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He immediately leapt to his feet and headed out towards the
      Forbidden Forest to see what this particular informant had to
      say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus masked his presence as he walked. He knew very well that
      this man was Alan Weston, despite Weston's attempts to hide his
      identity. But if a disloyal Death Eater felt more comfortable
      behind a supposed veil of secrecy, Albus wasn't going to shatter
      his delusions of privacy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening," Albus greeted appearing in a quiet moonlit
      clearing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen," Alan Weston softly said as he looked both ways. "I
      don't have long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus' eyes unfocused while turning his head from left to right.
      "You haven't been followed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither have you," Alan retorted, acting insulted that the
      Headmaster still treated him like an amateur.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled and inclined his head. "What can I do for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm guessing you heard," Alan explained. "The meeting with the
      bloodsuckers went as expected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded. "I had heard, but it's nice to see you've returned
      in good health."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dark Lord's attention hasn't been on the Ministry, your
      Order, or even the man in black," Alan said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan shook his head. "He's been getting all the texts and
      information he can on researching parallel dimensions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus' eyebrows rose at not having heard this yet. He just
      nodded, urging Alan to continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"From what I've seen, he's been singularly focused on them:
      recent theories, ancient scrolls, how or where they exist,
      everything," Alan explained. "I don't know if he's recruiting help
      or planning to take a trip. But I thought you should know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded, processing the information. "I am glad you told
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should go," Alan said, looking over his shoulders into the
      darkness. "You know how to contact me if you need to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed I do," Albus replied, trying to think of why the Dark
      Lord was researching parallel dimensions with such determination.
      "Take care of yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan pulled his cloak tighter and took off on a brisk walk into
      the darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus turned and began to slowly walk back towards the castle.
      He knew the Dark Lord wouldn't be so single-minded on merely
      gaining a new advantage. Voldemort was too cautious for that. Albus
      knew if the Dark Lord was as focused as Alan claimed then it was
      because the Dark Lord feared something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He couldn't understand why the Dark Lord would fear a parallel
      dimension.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus gasped loudly and stopped where he was. Suddenly
      everything started to make sense, including the mystery of the Lord
      Blacks. The Dark Lord didn't fear a parallel dimension. He feared a
      <em class="calibre8">traveler</em> from a parallel dimension. Especially one so
      powerful that he could stand up to the Dark Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled at the idea that Sirius and Harry Black really did
      just appear mere months ago, most likely both travelers from
      another dimension.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus had just started walking again when he paused in surprise
      once more. It finally dawned on the Headmaster, that the Dark Lord
      did not fear dimension traveler Lord Harry Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord feared a full grown Harry Potter, godson of Sirius
      Black, and viable subject for the prophecy of the Dark Lord's
      downfall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus had a skip in his step and a smile on his face as he
      hurried back to his office, wondering how best to utilize this new
      information.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
