<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TWENTY ONE, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 21</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's bad mood was plain to see as he childishly stomped into
      the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked up from the Daily Prophet and smiled at Harry. "No
      luck?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grunted negatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe I can help," Sirius offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't need to be laughed at," Harry grumbled. "And it's not
      like you could keep an eye out for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Sirius agreed. "But between the two of us, I'm the only
      one who's successfully mastered the animagus transformation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, unable to disagree with that. "Alright then, have
      you got any ideas on how to make this work? Because nothing I've
      tried has worked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius folded up the paper, relishing the opportunity to be a
      proper godfather. "So what have you been trying?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that I know my form, I've been trying to self-transfigure
      my fingers and hands first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "And how's that working out for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "One time my fingers got really blurry, but I
      was already dizzy and hit my head earlier, so that might have been
      nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius slowly drew out the word. "I think you're going
      about this all wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assume you have a suggestion," Harry added. "Or else that was
      awful advice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do," Sirius said. "You're still thinking of the exercises and
      steps necessary for normal animagi. Most people have to think about
      things like structural and physical differences that need to be
      treated with caution. That's why you're supposed to magically
      determine how to bridge the gaps between your two different outer
      shells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Outer shells?" Harry said doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, outer shells," Sirius repeated. "You are Harry and only
      Harry. Harry was born a wizard, and has had the outer shell of a
      wizard for all of his life. He now also has the option of another
      outer shell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you actually study this stuff or just take some really good
      drugs you found in a desert?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do we need to do a show of hands again to remind people which
      of us can do this?" Sirius retorted with a condescending look. "As
      I was saying, <em class="calibre8">outer shells</em>. This is important. You have to
      stop thinking of yourself as a wizard first. You are Harry first,
      and a wizard second. Just like I am Sirius first, and a wizard
      second. And occasionally, I'm Sirius first, and a bad dog second.
      Always thinking of your own identity first is how you exert control
      over your different shell's instincts." Sirius rubbed his chin in
      thought. "Not really sure what a ghost's instincts would be. Maybe
      being generally depressing and having a slightly superior
      attitude?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not how ghosts are," Harry argued, feeling oddly
      defensive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyways," Sirius continued. "For most people, it's the small
      amount of success they get from seeing their hand turn into a paw
      or whatever that opens their mind to the possibility. To really
      grasp the idea that you are as much a dog or a ghost as you are a
      wizard. And there's like a mental switch that is flipped. You know
      not only is it possible, but it's real and it's <em class="calibre8">you</em>. Once
      you hit that it just takes months and months of practice to fully
      transform your whole body."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think I'm going to need months and months of practice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Sirius assured him. "I don't. I don't think you're going
      need hardly any practice at all. I think once you flip that switch,
      you'll transform instantly. I don't think there will be any gradual
      change from corporeal and alive to incorporeal and 'not exactly
      alive.' But I do think," Sirius grinned brightly. "I do think
      figuring out how to flip that switch and then control it is going
      to be a lot harder for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great," Harry sighed. "I'd kinda guessed that much on my own.
      My question is <em class="calibre8">how</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will it," Sirius firmly replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Sirius said. "There's no secret incantation, no special
      place inside you, no spirit animal or totem to guide you. You
      simply will it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's what I've been trying to do for the past week," Harry
      insisted. "It's why I keep getting headaches and crapping bloody
      diamonds. I spend so much damn time just concentrating as hard as I
      can on <em class="calibre8">willing it</em> that my crap has turned into
      granite."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius chuckled in commiseration. "I tried sniffing James and
      Peter's bums just to get in the right frame of doggie mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did that help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not so much, no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes. "Thank you for telling me a pointless
      story that put the image of you sniffing Wormtail and my Dad's
      butts permanently into my head."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're very welcome," Sirius replied happily. "And you know,
      your body reacted instinctively once already. We could try and…
      <em class="calibre8">force</em> the issue again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want to try to kill me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it'll help," Sirius said flashing a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It won't," Harry grumbled. "Unless you actually were to put my
      life in genuine danger, I'd know it's a fake. And I'm not ready to
      risk dying just to try and control my form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Alive is still better than dead. And alive but
      grievously injured, I'd like to avoid for as long as possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's just it," Sirius said. "For your ghost side, alive
      <em class="calibre8">shouldn't</em> be better than dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not willing to get a death wish," Harry argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Sirius pondered aloud. "What if, when you were a baby,
      you got killed and turned into a ghost-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes. "Stop."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius ignored the interruption. "But you had enough magic and
      transformed yourself back into a living baby-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so now you're more like a ghost, with a wizard alternate
      form. And have been unknowingly living in your secondary form for
      decades," Sirius added with a grin. "Like Wormtail did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just stop."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It makes so much sense," Sirius nodded, thinking back to what
      he knew of Harry. "I mean hundreds of mothers would have sacrificed
      themselves out of love for their own children. Why would Lily be
      able to-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius!" Harry snapped. "Stop. I'm not dead. I'm alive.
      Boy-Who-Lived? Dumb name. <em class="calibre8">But accurate.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Besides, I didn't die. The spell rebounded off me and hit
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah," Sirius realized. "It couldn't have hit you normally.
      So what kind of shield did Lily-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A blood ritual of binding," Harry explained. "It was probably
      done when we first went into hiding. Because when Voldemort killed
      her, it sealed the binding on me. If anyone else had killed her,
      that's who the binding would have protected me from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A blood ritual?" Sirius repeated. "But she was your mother.
      You're already as blood connected as you can be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That part neither I nor Hermione could figure out," Harry
      admitted with a shrug. "But I'm not dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm, I'm thinking," Sirius mused. "Do me a favor, close your
      eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at him dubiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just trust me," Sirius begged in irritation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Harry agreed, squinting his eyes shut. "What am I
      doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A giant deafening boom sounded just behind Harry's right
      ear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slapped a hand over his severely stressed ear. "What the
      hell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn," Sirius said with frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't hear you," Harry shouted back at Sirius while gently
      putting pressuring on his ear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius rolled his eyes. "I said-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another massive explosion of sound erupted this time, right next
      to Sirius, sending the older man sprawling to the floor in the
      other direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not so funny now, is it?" Harry shouted at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't hear you!" Sirius exclaimed back, rubbing his ear,
      wondering if he should be worried at the small amount of blood
      trickling out his ear. "Truce?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What," Harry screamed back, rubbing his ear as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Sirius asked cleaning out his good ear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't hear you," Harry responded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said I can't hear you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is stupid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "Don't call me kid. I was trying to help
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Sirius in surprise. "Drying the elf puke?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just stop trying to understand me. You have no idea what I'm
      saying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I give up," Harry said shrugging in resignation. "I'm done
      trying to understand you. I have no idea what you just said."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sighed, shaking his head at Harry. "I hate you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Sirius curiously, wiggling his pinkie in his
      ear. "What kind of soup?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cream of cock and balls," Sirius replied moving his lips
      excessively, mocking Harry's inability to hear clearly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that French? Coq aux bailles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not a huge fan of creamy ones. But if you get a big chunk
      of meat in my mouth, I'll take a cream."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius's eyes widened and jaw dropped at double meaning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slammed an invisible arm right into Sirius' throat,
      sending the man into a coughing fit. "You really think I wouldn't
      recognize the words 'cock and balls?' Have some faith in me,
      Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," Sirius croaked out while rubbing his throat. A raspy
      tinged voice snapped, "That really hurts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe you should've thought of that when you were deafening
      me," Harry retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was trying to scare you," Sirius explained. "You know, maybe
      frighten you half to death?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're an idiot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah but if it had worked, I would've been a genius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think I want to know the kind of world where you count
      as a genius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Laugh it up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That wouldn't be a world where up is down. That'd be a world
      where up is… jello."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look buddy. Last time you were thinking about becoming an
      animagi, you were fearful for your life, and possibly your life
      really was in danger. Scaring the bloody form out of you…" Sirius
      trailed off in thought. He snapped back to reality, "Jello on the
      ceilings <em class="calibre8">is</em> a damn good idea. I'm going to talk to Moony
      about making a charm or a wheeze."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at his godfather in consternation. "Wow, Sirius,
      thanks for all the help. I'm really glad we had this talk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius either completely missed or ignored the sarcasm. "You're
      very welcome." Having accomplished his mission, he turned and
      walked right out of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned back in his chair and pulled out an animagi text
      that he'd read several times before. He glanced at the door briefly
      considering the idea of scaring the form out of him. He was on high
      alert expecting Sirius to attempt to frighten him again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry re-read the passage and set the text down. He took a deep
      breath and made the decision to try again. He stood up in the
      middle of the room, and went through his exercises. He was blocking
      out as much outside noise as possible, focusing on how different it
      had felt to be a ghost. The stillness of everything, the enveloping
      silence, the foreign sensation of solid matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His brow was covered in sweat as he continued concentrating
      solely on the animagus transformation. He was so single-minded he
      didn't even hear her the first time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What're you doing?" Ginny repeated louder, sticking her head
      over Harry's right shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's heart just about stopped at the sound of her voice. He
      spun around defensively and instinctively started to bullshit.
      "Listen, I can explain-" Harry's explanation came to a sudden halt
      when his arm swung around and connected solidly with a slap across
      Ginny's cheek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry whimpered in surprise but looked down and saw he was still
      solid. He hadn't transformed, as he had feared. He then considered
      the fact that he just slapped a ghost and wondered the odds Ginny
      might not have noticed. "On second thought, now might not be the
      best time for explanations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny rubbed her cheek in glorious amazement. She crept forward
      faster than Harry could backpedal and stuck her hand straight
      through his heart. When her fingers met no resistance, Ginny
      frowned and pouted, "Aww… I thought we were finally permitted to
      touch each other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh thank Merlin." Harry whispered a quiet prayer. He looked
      down at his hands and reached out, horrified to discover he'd just
      poked Ginny in the tit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny gasped at the sensation. She looked at Harry's hand in
      awe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not right," Harry announced looking at his hand angrily.
      "You're a ghost. I shouldn't be able to-" Harry stopped in surprise
      as his hands met no resistance at all. He walked through Ginny's
      incorporeal body. He poked a finger through her shoulder and felt
      nothing. Immediately after pulling his finger back he poked again
      this time touching solid shoulder, eliciting a gasp from the young
      ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what this means?" Ginny sang merrily as she spun in a
      circle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could guess."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It means I still can't hold you, but you can hold me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guessed wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny hopped up in front of him with her arms wide open. "Hold
      me, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tucked his hands under his armpits. "No thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Ginny whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe some other time," Harry evasively offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When," Ginny demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny didn't care for that suggestion and sought middle ground.
      "Umm… maybe some other time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled. "That's just what I was thinking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny moved over to perch on the side of the chair nearest to
      Harry. "I'm here, you know. Just in case, you want to touch me. I'm
      cool with it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll keep that in mind," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," Ginny conversationally began. "I don't suppose that
      bull-dyke man-hating bartender version of me got kissed by a
      dementor anytime recently?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Ginny a little worriedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I mean, if there's just a perfectly good spare Ginny
      Weasley body around, I've got dibs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry answered her earnestly. "No dementor kisses. I just
      saw her a couple nights back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Chin up, Harry," Ginny said trying to hold Harry's hand. She
      smiled softly. "There's still time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wondered if he was going to develop ghost-like
      characteristics such as dementia or wishing death on others. "Hey
      Ginny, what's it like being a ghost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I'm soul-bonded to <em class="calibre8">you</em>," Ginny assured him.
      "I'm only a ghost for now. I'm waiting for you to get this madness
      out of your system before we spend the rest of eternity
      together."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So a lot of lying to yourself and constantly avoiding the
      glaringly obvious issue," Harry replied. "Not bad. Not bad at
      all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a healthy amount of spying on naked people too," Ginny
      corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's always fun," Harry agreed, liking the prospects of
      ghost-hood more and more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you ask?" Ginny inquired. "And were you doing animagus
      exercises when I walked in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The color drained from Harry's face as he tried and failed to
      mask his emotions. "No," he squeaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is this? The Spanish Inquisition?" Harry snapped as he got
      up and stomped away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny gasped joyously. "You know your form, don't you?" She saw
      the look on Harry's face. "You do! That's great. So what is
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's umm…" Harry stalled. "Umm…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Ginny scoffed. "Oh come on. It's not like your form is a
      ghost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stumbled back and his body let out a poof of displaced air
      at her dishearteningly accurate guess. He looked down at his arms
      and hands and saw straight through the translucent light of his
      ghostly form all the way to the floor. He looked back up at Ginny
      and saw the female ghost had been shocked into a stupor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without another word, the ghostly form of Harry turned tail and
      ran out of the room and down the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Ginny called out chasing after him, floating straight
      through the walls. She quickly caught back up to him. "Harry,
      wait!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could feel Ginny gaining on him and took a quick right,
      heading down the stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny just floated straight down, while Harry ran the long way
      down the curving staircase. He hit the bottom stair running and
      dove headfirst in a somersault, successfully avoiding Ginny. He
      glanced over his shoulder at her and ran headfirst into the book
      shelf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry passed incorporeally through and continued running down
      the left side of the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was floating behind him, at a less frantic pace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not finding what he was looking for, Harry crossed the hall and
      began running through the rooms on the other side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry skidded to a stop when he found Sirius and Remus, working
      together. So far they had the ceiling half-coated with a gooey
      layer of lime green jello.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Harry began pointing at the ceiling curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Sirius happily shouted back noticing Harry had
      transformed again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You two gotta do the reversal spell," Harry ordered quickly
      remembering why he'd been looking for them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Harry," Remus mockingly greeted. "I'm fine. Thanks for
      asking. It's good to see you too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, I don't have a lot of ti-" Harry cut off, yelping out a
      feminine shriek at the sight of Ginny floating through the wall.
      Harry ran straight through Remus and across the hall again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was sprinting through the rooms, staying one step ahead of
      Ginny the whole way. The next pass through the temporary jello
      room, Harry had enough time to yell, "The Spell!" He doubled-back
      seconds later. "Do it!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, alright," Remus said aiming his wand at Harry. He
      paused and turned to Sirius, "What was the incantation, again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned and ran straight through Remus again, grumbling,
      "Oh you're hilarious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus shuddered as Harry passed through him and into the next
      room. "No magical arms as a ghost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius twitched having felt a chill rake through his brain.
      "They're ghostly too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He went that-a-way," Remus told Ginny's ghost while pointing
      over his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know what…?" Ginny questioned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ghost animagus," Sirius answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny nodded as if she knew it all along. "I always wondered why
      I was taken from Harry at such a young age."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't think the Killing Curse answered most of that
      question," Sirius inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny harrumphed. "It makes sense that it was necessary for me
      to learn and understand how we'd spend eternity together so that I
      would be able to help him master his form." Ginny smiled, clasping
      her hands together. "My Harry <em class="calibre8">needs</em> me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did she-" Harry cut off with a yelp and disappeared right back
      in the wall he'd stuck his head through.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't fight fate, Harry!" Ginny called out hurrying after him,
      floating out of the room. "She's kind of a bitch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced over to see how Remus was doing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny's going to molest him, isn't she?" Remus fearfully
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "Probably. But if anything can inspire Harry into
      figuring out how to transform back, it'll be Ginny and her bad
      touches."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll get him next time he passes through here," Remus said.
      "But no slacking during your conjuring turn. Get back to jello
      blasting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was beginning to think he'd lost her finally. He glanced
      over his shoulder as he crept through the library wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello love," Ginny greeted with wide open arms from just inside
      the library wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry whipped his hand around and tried to stop himself from
      crashing into Ginny. He tripped forward with a shriek, flailing his
      arms wildly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny reached out to grab onto Harry and grasped only air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahh!" Harry screamed, flapped his hands, and assumed a
      defensive position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aww," Ginny pouted heartbroken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's frantic hand motions slowed down and he cracked open an
      eye. "Ahh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why can't we touch?" Ginny frowned. "I can touch other
      ghosts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Harry realized pushing his incorporeal arms through
      Ginny's incorporeal arms. "I can't touch you. Not even when I'm
      trying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny looked up to the heavens. "It's because I called you a
      bitch, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why can't I touch you?" Harry wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe part of my helping you master your form will include
      figuring this out," Ginny mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned to Harry. "It's not like you can instantly know
      exactly what it means to be a ghost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "There's more to it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Harry," Ginny huffed exasperatedly. "That's why I
      had to die. So that I'd know all about being a ghost and could
      teach my soul mate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think he'd mind if you help me too?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny shook her head. "You're such a kidder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry started to feel a little guilty. "You're really going to
      help me even though I'm kind of a dick to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Ginny assured him. "This is undoubtedly another way
      for us to be together for eternity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh… joy," Harry forced out the words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny grinned brightly, forgetting her earlier disappointment.
      "We should start by getting you familiar with how it feels being a
      ghost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held up a hand to stop her. "Hang on. Let me go tell
      Sirius and Remus not to disturb us. We'll use the room I was
      practicing in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny floated along next to Harry while he walked through the
      walls until he reached the jello dripping room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey guys," Harry said attracting their attention. "I was-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Remus both called out the spell forcing Harry from
      his animagus transformed state. They were exhausting themselves but
      quickly they funneled enough magic to complete the change.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry popped back into his corporeal breathing form and stood
      there staring at them in shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus saw Ginny right behind Harry and knew they'd just been in
      time. It took a lot out of him, but it was worth it for the look on
      Harry's face. "You are welcome."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's abject horror began to wear off and he found his voice.
      "You motherfuckers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny gasped happily. "Well, well, well. Look who can touch me
      again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Remus glanced at each other and didn't see all of the
      appreciation they expected from Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You complete, utter bastards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps now," Ginny whispered in Harry's ear, "we can talk
      about my payment for training you in the ways of the ghost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry growled at Remus and Sirius. "You motherfuckers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was catching on. "You changed your mind on that reversal
      spell thing, didn't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Figured that one out, did you?" Harry dangerously announced.
      "And before you ask, no, I have no clue when I'll be able to manage
      the transformation again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus meekly defended. "You're the one who was begging for the
      spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't you try and recreate whatever changed you this time?"
      Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Ginny and shook his head. "I highly doubt it.
      The reason I feared transforming was what Roaming Hands Weasley
      here was going to do to me if I did. Now I know she can't touch me
      when I do. Not quite so scary."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny was biting her cheek, deep in thought. "Have you tried
      triggering it with intercourse with a ghost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "It's not a bad id-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a very bad idea!" Harry snapped out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus snickered to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry barked at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Remus apologized. "The whole ghost intercourse thing
      just reminded me of something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry, Sirius, and Ginny were all staring at Remus unsure if
      they wanted to know what was on his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius couldn't contain his curiosity and asked, "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus was still amused. "In your world, did you ever go as Sir
      Nicholas for Halloween?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius recalled. "I just covered the front of my pants
      in blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Nearly headless</em>?" Remus mocked in a high-pitched
      voice. "<em class="calibre8">How can you be nearly headless?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh good god," Harry whispered in fright.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius felt inordinately proud. "I made five Hufflepuffs
      cry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And two more had to get explanations from their prefects,"
      Remus added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned away from Sirius and Remus to leave the room. "It's
      going to be one of those days, I can tell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny floated dutifully along with him. "You know what might
      make you feel better, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Getting to third base."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Second base?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Did you write this?" Bellatrix exclaimed, rushing up to
      Remus with tears in her eyes.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Write what?" Remus asked curiously, noticing she was clutching
      a letter close to her heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What am I saying? Of course, you wrote this," Bellatrix
      continued, her mood changing from 'so happy she could cry' to
      'self-deprecating' in the blink of an eye. "It's in your
      handwriting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is?" Remus asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's smile twisted into a frown. "Unless you've been
      writing love letters to some other woman named Bellatrix…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Remus insisted, picking up on the warning signs that
      Bellatrix's mood was more volatile than usual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some other <em class="calibre8">man</em> named Bellatrix?" Sirius asked,
      sticking his head in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Remus sputtered. "I haven't been writing anyone any love
      letters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix whimpered and was fighting back tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except that one," Remus said pointing towards the letter
      Bellatrix was guarding like precious treasure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix's sniffles twisted into a smile of pure bliss. "Oh
      Remus!" She lunged forward wrapping her arms around him. "This is
      the sweetest thing anyone's ever done for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus rubbed gentle circles into her back trying to calm her
      down. "Well… I'm… I'm glad you liked it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius and Harry were looking at each other worriedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The sweetest thing?" Harry mouthed at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know!" Sirius mouthed back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's just sad," Harry softly concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm…" Bellatrix was still crying happily. "I'm not the kind of
      girl who gets too many love letters and… I just…" She gripped the
      letter tighter. "I'll treasure this forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's," Remus paused looking at Sirius and Harry helplessly.
      "That's why I wrote it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix finally pulled back to look at Remus. "I think I'm
      going to lay down for a nap. Come tuck me in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will," Remus assured her. "I just need to talk to these two
      for a minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix nodded in understanding. "Don't be long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus stuck a hand out cautiously. "Do you mind if I re-read my
      letter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix glanced between the letter in her hand and Remus. "I
      want it back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll bring it up with me when I tuck you in," Remus promised
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix handed the letter to him confidently. "You're so
      sweet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus made a non-committal sound while keeping a smile on his
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three men watched Bellatrix leave the room. Remus spun
      around angrily. "Alright. What did you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What makes you think we did anything?" Sirius asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry agreed. "I'm not sure she even got the right
      letter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus reluctantly unfolded the letter and saw a few verses of
      poetry had been scribbled in what appeared to be his
      handwriting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never heard the final draft," Sirius pointed out. "So, speak
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus pretended not to hear Sirius, but obliged with the
      request. He worriedly read from the parchment. "<em class="calibre8">Bellatrix, oh
      Bellatrix, how I tire of your gay tricks.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snappy," Sirius critiqued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I doubt we could get rid o' ya</em>," Remus continued in
      confusion, "<em class="calibre8">with just a case of Chlamydia.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Catchy," Sirius said a little too proud of his pun. "Oww," he
      swore grabbing his eye. "Why you gotta go there, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus ignored them both and kept reading. "<em class="calibre8">But I was
      thinkin' maybe ya, might trim down your labia.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius snickered holding on to Harry for support.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is disgusting," Remus complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Keep reading, keep reading," Sirius urged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Mud flaps belong on silly trucks</em>," Remus read aloud
      shamefully. "<em class="calibre8">Not on my sick and twisted little
      Billy-trucks.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius were both laughing to see the way it pained
      Remus to say that name aloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it. I'm done," Remus said, not wanting to read any
      further.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Sirius begged. "Come on! There's at least two more
      verses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus sighed but gave in to temptation. He looked down at the
      start of the next verse. "<em class="calibre8">It would take almost two Great Walls
      of China</em>," He flipped over the first page and continued,
      "<em class="calibre8">to actually plug your gaping va-</em> Who wrote this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My lips are sealed." Harry refused to answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius wasn't quite so trustworthy. "I think that line was the
      work of your daughter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tonks?" Remus asked in disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry sarcastically replied. "The barely formed fetus in
      the ex-Death Eater's womb is a fan of limericks and contributed
      most of the second verse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus just looked at Harry and Sirius, thinking he needed to
      have a long talk with Tonks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remus!" Bellatrix yelled out in despair from the floor above.
      "Come fuck me!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Sirius exchanged a surprised look while Remus failed
      to hide his blush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean tuck me in," Bellatrix loudly corrected, belatedly
      processing what she'd said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus smiled weakly. "I should go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't really mean tuck me in," Bellatrix earnestly admitted
      at the top of her lungs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, you should," Harry agreed. "But Moony? When you're,
      <em class="calibre8">ahem</em>, tucking her in, do me a favor and think of Sirius'
      arse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus winced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here ya go, big guy," Sirius happily followed Harry's lead,
      turning around and flashing a pale cheek at the other Marauder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh god," Remus said guarding his eyes in disgust. He scraped
      his tongue on the roof of his mouth trying to get the taste out. He
      flashed a winning smile. "Thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius watched Remus walk happily away and skip up the steps
      towards Bellatrix's room. He turned towards his godson. "Why did he
      thank me? Harry, why did he thank me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth and closed it helplessly. "Don't know.
      Don't care. It's just one of those days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked at Harry warily. "And just what happens on one of
      <em class="calibre8">those</em> days?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Usually?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Too much happens?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius repeated with a slow nod. "We still doing that
      thing this afternoon?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered the question and shrugged indifferently.
      "Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius could hear the tiredness in Harry's tone. "Are you
      getting all pensive and introspective on me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry realized he had been deep in thought. "Maybe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did a vagina come with that attitude because you're acting like
      a girl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've just been thinking about how things are different here
      because I wasn't in this world," Harry explained. "People who are
      happier, or for that matter alive, because they never knew me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius wasn't in the mood for a pity party. "Like say,
      Voldemort, for instance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True enough," Harry admitted, catching the hint. "Let me just
      relax for a bit and then we'll go do the thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want to watch something on the muggical box?" Sirius
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lead the way up to their muggle entertainment room,
      grumbling. "You know saying it more often isn't going to make it a
      word. You just sound stupid, again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Words are for conformists, you vaptastic fantomiter," Sirius
      pouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused and glanced at Sirius. "Did you just now make that
      up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You connest your baltfooling dushbunnets," Sirius replied with
      a knowing smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned away from Sirius and walked the rest of the way
      into the room. "Don't talk that way anymore. It makes me want to
      hurt you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius remembered how much his ability to make up real sounding
      nonsense words instinctively both scared and disturbed James as
      well. "Where's the TV remote?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pointed to the coffee table. "It's right in front of
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Sirius corrected. "That's the remote for the DVD."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So watch a DVD."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still need the TV remote."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it the skinny white one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that's the receiver."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the one in your hand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is for the cable box."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good lord," Harry grumbled turning towards the couch he was on.
      He sent out several invisible, magical arms and quickly searched
      through the cushions. He found some change, a pen, what looked like
      a finger, and a comb. He strengthened the arms and checked the
      cushions on the other couch. "Ah-ha!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A remote came floating out from nestled down in the left side.
      "I am the king," Harry pronounced pushing the remote to Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sighed. "That's the laser disc remote."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have a laser disc?" Harry asked. "And what is a laser
      disc?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no idea. And I don't think we do, but our neighbors do,"
      Sirius explained. "Last week I slipped on an invisibility cloak and
      borrowed that remote from the neighbors because I needed the
      batteries… <em class="calibre8">for the TV remote</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is ridiculous," Harry snapped. He drew his wand and
      confidently cast, "<em class="calibre8">Accio remote</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The nearest remote jumped up towards Harry before popping loudly
      in a small burst of flames and sparks. All the other remotes
      followed shortly after zooming to Harry and then exploding,
      catching fire, or vibrating with smoke billowing out the top.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oops," Harry apologized forgetting that while his magical arms
      worked normally in the warded muggle room, magic did not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked down at the remains of the remotes from the cable
      box, the DVD, the neighbor's laser disc player, and the receiver.
      "Still no TV remote!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They both looked up as Remus' pants came flying into the room
      stopping in front of Harry. The pants began to smoke, before they
      started shaking and erupted in flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled weakly at Sirius. "Looks like Moony stole the TV
      remote and stuck it to his pocket for nefarious purposes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced at all their melted and broken pieces of remotes
      and the smoldering remains of Remus' pants. He looked up at Harry,
      clearly not amused. "Guess you really showed him, huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I said 'oops,'" Harry defended. "Besides, we had too many
      remotes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we have too <em class="calibre8">few</em> now," Sirius commented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They sell these spiffy new super-smart remotes that can replace
      other remotes," Harry explained. "I remember seeing a mention of
      them on sale somewhere." Harry got up and walked over to the door.
      "I should have a muggle paper from last week still in my room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on." Sirius stopped Harry from leaving. "I got today's
      right here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got today's?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "Chicks dig a roguishly handsome man, especially
      one with the Financial Times tucked under his arm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's…" Harry smiled as he took the newspaper from Sirius,
      "not a half bad idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt wetness on his hand and looked down to find the
      Financial Times was a slobbery mess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grinned. "And on occasion, I'll get some hotties to play
      fetch with Padfoot, allowing me ample opportunity to sniff their
      crotches."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice," Harry said with a forced smile. He wiped his hand off
      and slowly unfurled the newspaper. The large front page headline
      caught his eye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked and had to re-read it several times. "This can't
      be happening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Sirius asked. "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned the paper around displaying the front page. He read
      the headline aloud, "<em class="calibre8">Piers Polkiss Cures Cancer</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned at Harry. "Isn't that a good thing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I… guess," Harry answered helplessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius scratched his head in confusion. "Do you know him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry unfortunately admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahh," Sirius said finally catching on. "This is because it's
      one of <em class="calibre8">those</em> days. And you were just talking about the
      differences in… oh dear. Was he one of the people you tried to save
      but couldn't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry replied. "He's just a dick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was not expecting that answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And he's stupid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stupid?" Sirius questioned. "It sounds like he's smart enough
      to cure cancer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's no way," Harry argued. "Not the Piers Polkiss I
      knew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the article say?" Sirius suggested. "Maybe it's a
      different guy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure," Harry sarcastically retorted. "Because Piers Polkiss
      is such a common name."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew better than to grasp at that hope. He read the start
      of the front page. "Reverend Dr. Polkiss… <em class="calibre8">what</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Reverend Dr. Polkiss, last years' recipient of the Nobel Peace
      Prize-" Harry stopped and handed the paper to Sirius. "I can't do
      it. I don't want to read this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took the paper and quickly scanned through the article.
      "Wow… this guy's a regular hero."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's no hero," Harry whined. "He's an evil, cruel person. He
      was the original mastermind behind the games of
      <em class="calibre8">Harry-hunting</em> and
      <em class="calibre8">Tie-Harry-to-the-back-of-the-bus</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius smirked. "Exactly how does one play
      <em class="calibre8">Tie-Harry-to-the-back-of-the-bus</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's kinda like <em class="calibre8">Punch-Sirius-in-the-crotch</em> if you were
      seven and a bleeder," Harry snapped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius winced and decided to avoid that road. "I guess without
      your aggravating presence in his life, he had a lot more free
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to ignore Sirius but couldn't contain his curiosity.
      He gave in and asked, "What did he win a Nobel Peace Prize
      for?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It says it in here somewhere." Sirius scanned backwards through
      the article looking for the passage. "Here it is! Blah, blah, blah…
      negotiated a truce between Israel and Palestine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No Harry," Harry grumbled. "And instead you get cancer cured
      and peace in the Middle East. That's real funny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd call it moderately funny," Sirius said wiggling his hand.
      "But you're not crying, so…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "I hate these days. And you just know it's going
      to get worse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A burst of fire and wail of phoenix song announced Fawkes'
      arrival.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you say things like that," Sirius chided. "You deserve
      what you get."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meh," Harry grumbled know that on <em class="calibre8">those</em> days it didn't
      matter what he said. He looked up at Fawkes. "Who gets the bad
      news? Me or him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes hovered in place glancing between Sirius and Harry before
      he flew off and landed on Sirius' shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius accepted the parchment from Fawkes' grasp and opened it
      up. "It doesn't look too long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes. "Does he know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius skimmed the first paragraph. "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No?" Harry repeated in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Harry repeated in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Sirius summarized with a shake of his head. He
      slowly began to nod. "Yeah… he knows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Origins not extracurricular activities, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Sirius agreed. "He's basically forcing us to confirm
      his belief."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up curiously. "How's he managing that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius straightened out the letter and leaned forward with a
      Dumbledore-like hunch. He rasped out the words like an old man.
      "<em class="calibre8">I have puzzled over the familiarity I felt upon meeting the
      two of you. That was until last night when I came to an extremely
      unlikely and yet wholly possible conclusion.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahh crap," Harry grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius held up a hand to stop Harry and continued. "<em class="calibre8">If this
      improbable theory of mine contains even a grain of truth, then
      putting it into a letter is a risk I shall not take. And so I ask
      you kindly to please humor this old man and come discuss my theory
      with me at your earliest convenience.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Our earliest convenience?" Harry repeated. "I'm thinking it
      won't be convenient for a very long time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh really?" Sirius smugly asked. He continued to read the
      letter. "<em class="calibre8">It would be remiss of me not to mention that so far I
      have not discussed my theory with anyone.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "You can almost hear the noose tightening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">If neither of you have any interest in discussing my
      theory, then I will seek other sounding boards. And I would hate to
      give my good friends the Potters an unlikely and uncertain hope
      when that hope and my theory could be easily confirmed or denied by
      either of you.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed helplessly. "That cheeky fucking bastard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Sirius agreed. "It's so… Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He knows," Harry grumbled. "And he's trying to make it sound
      like he just guessed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think someone told him?" Sirius asked. "We've seen Tonks
      and Moony both today and I doubt Gin risked her oath. Unspeakables
      maybe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered and admitted. "Maybe but we can't discount the
      possibility that he did guess it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you want to handle this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry informed, "I'll go talk to him tonight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tonight?" Sirius asked. "Just you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you don't mind," Harry said. "I think I'd rather go by
      myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not going to kill him, are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Sirius silently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I'll get Tonks and we got your alibi covered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not going to kill him," Harry exasperatedly replied. "But
      if we both go see him, we'll look like wayward students sent to the
      Headmaster's office. If I go alone, he'll see me as an equal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And he wouldn't see me as an equal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "There's a difference between defeating a
      dark wizard and defeating a Dark Lord. It's not really something…"
      Harry struggled to find the words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is some of that crap you never want to talk about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't been sure Sirius had even noticed. "Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you're certain you haven't grown a vagina?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Sirius. I checked this morning."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Okay," Sirius exclaimed looking around. "This place is
      creepier during the day than even the Shrieking Shack at
      night."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Shrieking Shack isn't scary," Harry argued. "You're part of
      the reason people think it's haunted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not the one who starved eight children in the attic,"
      Sirius argued. "They're the ones who scream on rainy nights."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know nothing about the Shrieking Shack?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's where Moony went to transform when he was a student,"
      Harry replied. "His howls and screams during transformation are why
      people think it's haunted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People don't just think it's haunted," Sirius retorted. "It
      <em class="calibre8">is</em> haunted. By an entire Ravenclaw first year class. You
      know it was called the Shrieking Shack before I ever started at
      Hogwarts, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at his godfather curiously. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, really. Ask Albus tonight. He'll tell you." Sirius
      continued, "We tried to keep Moony company in there, but it was
      just too freaky with those screaming and whispering kids. That was
      why we started going out into the Forbidden Forest instead. It
      wasn't like we originally decided, '<em class="calibre8">Hey. Let's take the feral
      werewolf closer to the townspeople. Yeah, that's a good idea.</em>'
      No," Sirius shook his head. "We just got freaked out by that
      place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "But this place even has an even creepier name."
      He was looking around the dilapidated and unkempt grounds. "The
      <em class="calibre8">Gaunt</em> House. It sounds like the opposite of a children's
      playground."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at his godfather. "And what name would sound like
      a children's playground?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">" Happytastic Funtabalous Land," Sirius suggested. "What are we
      looking for anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a family ring around here," Harry added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre8">Gaunt</em> family ring?" Sirius asked. "I'm guessing it
      likes to bite fingers off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Gaunts were just this lowest branch of the Slytherin line,"
      Harry explained, ducking under a broken dust-covered support
      beam.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Slytherin? You mean…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Merope Gaunt used love potions to get a booty
      call out of a muggle named Tom Riddle. Named the little hellspawn
      after her rape victim, I mean his father."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Voldemort's a… junior?" Sirius smiled. "I bet calling him
      junior would tick him off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry approached the loose floorboard in the back closet. "This
      is… <em class="calibre8">ah crap</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jerked up and looked around. "I think I just broke a
      collapsing ward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's a-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Collapsing wards do nothing but evaporate when any magical
      person or magic touches them. Even diagnostic spells to locate
      wards trigger them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do they just feel like a slight breeze you barely notice that
      tingles everywhere?" Sirius inquired curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Sirius answered. "Then I may have felt one when we
      approached the property."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap," Harry said, running up to the broken dirty window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared off into the woods behind the house. "Someone or
      ones may be watching us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius looked into the darkness of the trees and saw nothing.
      "Want me to walk out there while you circle around the back?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said shaking his head. "The ring's not here and I
      don't think that's Albus out there. Let's just get out of here."
      Harry grabbed Sirius' wrist and apparated them both away.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>The man had been expecting the collapsing wards to fall soon
      but he was momentarily shocked to feel it happen during the late
      afternoon in broad daylight. He quickly ensured his cloak would
      mask his presence and silently appeared under the cover of darkness
      in the woods behind the Gaunt House.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">He spotted the two Lord Blacks walking into the ruins of the old
      home in mild shock. Suddenly one of the mysteries he'd been
      puzzling over began to make sense. He was thinking furiously over
      all that he knew of them when he felt another collapsing ward
      fall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man thought the Blacks located that way too quickly and
      before he knew it, Harry was right at the window staring at him.
      The man didn't dare move as he saw Sirius walk up behind Harry,
      discussing something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He finally exhaled when he both saw and heard the two Lords
      apparate away, right from inside the ruins of the Gaunt house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man heavily cloaked in black triggered a portkey on his
      wrist reappearing in a well furnished and protected home. He moved
      over towards his fireplace and tapped his wand three times on a
      highly magical stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He prepared himself a snifter of brandy and sat back in the
      chair where he did much of his deep thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two minutes later the fireplace flared and the man accepted the
      incoming call. Alan Weston's head appeared in the fireplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're thinking," Alan stated noticing the man known to many as
      'That Fucker' was resting comfortably in a chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man nodded. "I know who the Death Eater Bandits are and I
      know how the animagus got past my ward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan blinked, admittedly impressed. "Who? How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man looked over at Alan and replied, "It's because you're
      keyed into your wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man in black nodded and took another sip of brandy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't follow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man took a deep relaxing breath and explained, "Any question
      of whether the Lord Blacks are <em class="calibre8">really</em> the Lords of the
      Black line has been answered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Alan paused. "You mean…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So since I'm one of their vassals, if I'm allowed, then by
      extension they are allowed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something like that," he agreed with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many people's bitch am I?" Alan asked before jerking up in
      surprise. "I just realized another god damn Sirius Black isn't
      letting me have warm sheets. That's just fucking perfect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man in the chair sighed. "You're never going to let this go,
      are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was a really nice dryer!"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
