<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TWENTY TWO, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s23" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 22</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: I'd like to claim that the
      delay on this chapter was abnormal and I'm about to jump right into
      a more regular writing and posting schedule, but I can't. Sorry.
      Feel free to do what I do and just blame my mom. (Not to mention
      she's ruined the punchline for one of my old favorite jokes. Q:
      What do you give the woman who has everything? A: Cancer. I know
      it's doubly tasteless now that it's true, but that's still
      funny.)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Nevertheless, I doubt the next chapter or two will take
      anywhere near as long as this one. Feel free to PM me and nudge me
      to hurry up on the next chapter, as those things more often inspire
      me to hurry than discourage me. Just realize that writing and
      posting this fic is a lower priority than usual for the near
      future. Big thanks to the usual folks who help me with this story:
      IP, Chuck, Jim, Sean, Rob, and others I'm forgetting. All comments,
      reviews, and feedback are appreciated.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry appeared with a pop just off the path leading to
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He began the slow trudge up to the castle, all the while
      reminding himself the man he was meeting was not the Headmaster he
      knew, nor was he an enemy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw light coming from Hagrid's cabin and thought back to
      his many happy memories of time spent in a world similar to this
      one. The Whomping Willow was swaying in the night breeze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around him and saw no one in sight. He picked up a
      rock off the path and threw it straight towards the dangerous tree.
      The willow eagerly swatted the rock right back to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Recognizing the tree seemed in a playful mood, Harry picked up
      half a dozen more rocks with his invisible, magical appendages and
      proceeded to throw them all towards the tree. He easily kept up
      with the magical old willow catching all the rocks and throwing
      them right back as if the two of them were playing several
      simultaneous games of catch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black?" Albus cautiously asked as he walked up behind
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's arms caught all of the rocks headed his way and held
      onto them this time as he turned and greeted, "Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Whomping Willow let out a whistling sigh and appeared to
      deflate upon the realization that its fun had come to an end.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled at Harry. "I can honestly say I've never seen the
      Whomping Willow used quite like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry launched a rock one last time towards the tree, admitting,
      "First time for me too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tree was fully capable of nursing a grudge and swung a thick
      branch right at the final rock, sending it flying up to the castle.
      There was a loud crack when the stone smacked against the window of
      the Headmaster's office and bounced helplessly off the magically
      reinforced glass.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked at the tree and his office's tower. "I think she's
      upset I interrupted you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She?" Harry asked. "The Whomping Willow is female?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does she seem like a 'he' to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "No, I suppose not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did not expect to see you so soon," Albus admitted,
      inspecting Harry. "Am I only to be graced by one Lord Black this
      evening?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just me," Harry answered and turned towards the castle. "Have
      you got time for a conversation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For one as enlightening as this one promises to be," Albus
      waved Harry forward and began walking in step with him. "I will
      happily clear my schedule."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're enjoying this entirely too much," Harry admitted with a
      smile as he walked next to Albus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shall I invite certain guests to join us?" Albus inquired.
      "Perhaps some others for whom-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry interrupted. "In fact, I was thinking we might both
      benefit from a charm of brotherhood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus showed only slight surprise at the suggestion. The most
      common charm of brotherhood entwined two people to the point that
      they would know when their 'brother' was lying to them, telling
      them the truth, or hiding something. It additionally would protect
      one brother's secrets based on the will of that brother. So if
      Albus' desire to tell someone a secret of Harry's was not stronger
      than Harry's desire for Albus not to tell, then Albus would be
      unable to. "Do you really think that's necessary?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Necessary? No," Harry replied. "But I'm here offering to be as
      honest with you as you are with me. I'm also going to ask that you
      not tell any of your <em class="calibre8">alternate sounding boards</em>," Harry
      gave Albus an accusing look, "any of your theories about me or
      Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus had the decency to look bashful before replying, "Do you
      really think that's fair?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Extremely</em> fair," Harry eagerly answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Albus chided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus," Harry retorted as they arrived at the Headmaster's
      office. "It's fair because I'm limiting your freedom to discuss it
      with others, and in turn willingly discussing it with you myself.
      It's a charm of brotherhood. It's built for fairness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus circled around to sit behind his desk. "I meant fair to
      others. People like the Potters for what they don't know, or the
      Lupins for what they do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry plopped down into a comfortable chair. He knew Albus
      wanted him as an ally and couldn't resist the thirst for knowledge.
      "This charm, and this conversation, is for you and me. Not
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sat there silently for a minute before nodding. "I can
      accept that. Tea?" He swished his wand and conjured a complete
      steaming set.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tea second," Harry said casting a spell over his right hand
      making it glow. He stuck it out towards Albus. "Charm first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus set down the teapot and cast the same charm of brotherhood
      over his hand. "Very well." He shook Harry's hand sealing the spell
      as both their hands faded to normal. "How do you take it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One sugar please," Harry replied and accepted the cup of
      tea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus took a sip from his cup and sat back. He set the cup down
      and smiled happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw how pleased Albus looked and resisted the urge to
      groan. "You know you're smiling more than Sirius does when his one
      night stand leaves in the morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus just grinned and sought confirmation. "Your godfather,
      Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry set his cup onto Albus' desk. "You're just dying to jump
      right into things, aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I make no secret of my desire for understanding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A rather annoying old man once told me the truth is a beautiful
      and terrible thing," Harry quipped. "And that it should be treated
      with great caution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who said that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You did," Harry succinctly replied. "Well, not exactly
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded, having suspected as much. "You have me at a
      disadvantage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Said the blackmailer," Harry retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned but saw little point in quibbling over words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just ask what you want to, Albus," Harry helplessly
      admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What have I done to give you such a low opinion of me?" Albus
      questioned. He added with a smile, "Or not exactly me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry bit the inside of his cheek. "Can we start with something
      simpler?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well," Albus agreed. "How about this one: tell me Harry
      Potter, why are you so opposed to your family, <em class="calibre8">to your
      parents</em>, knowing just who you are?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced. "Because I don't know them. And there's already
      enough drama in my life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you do know the Lupins?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed and figured he should start from the beginning.
      "Alright, first off, I suppose you need a little alternate history
      lesson. Halloween 1981, in the reality I grew up in, the Dark Lord
      Voldemort attacked at Godric's Hollow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded, urging Harry to go on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My parents were home that night," Harry explained. "And that
      night they died protecting me. So I've never known any James or
      Lily Potter. Sirius, my godfather, came through the Exit-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Exit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "The Exit, the veil, the death chamber, the stone
      archway in the Department of Mysteries, whatever you want to call
      it, my godfather fell through it over ten years ago. I began
      researching it in February. A by-product of my work was Sirius fell
      out the other side and into this world just a few months ago. So
      when he woke up in a hospital bed, he asked for Remus Lupin, his
      best friend in our reality. Hence, Tonks and Remus knew about me
      and my history before I ever arrived in this world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was tempted to inquire about the specifics of crossing
      over but wanted to understand Harry better. "That does not explain
      why you have not told your parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James and Lily Potter seem like nice people," Harry admitted.
      "But they're not my parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not exactly," Albus replied using Harry's own words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius was going to tell James who he was," Harry explained.
      "But when they met Sirius realized just how different this James
      Potter was from my dad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those two do seem to rub each other the wrong way, don't
      they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I can see it from both sides."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet you choose to continue to deceive your 'not quite'
      parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave Albus a significant look. "It's only dumb luck that
      in this world there is a middle-aged couple who dealt with the
      grief of losing a baby and raised two other kids. My parents never
      saw twenty-two. You really think getting to know the Potters will
      tell me anything about my parents? They never even met them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then perhaps you could give a middle-aged couple who dealt with
      the grief of losing a baby some peace of mind to know in other
      worlds their son has lived a healthy, happy life?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry laughed. "You're really something else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I shall take that as a compliment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took another sip of his tea. "I know you want to stay on
      our good side. All I ask is that you let us tell the Potters in our
      own time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus took a moment to observe Harry. "I can agree to that as
      long as you keep me informed of the people you do share the
      knowledge of your unique origins with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus," Harry sighed tiredly and glanced over at Fawkes empty
      perch. "I am not your student, nor an Order member. Those I and
      Sirius confide in are our business, not yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand," Albus backtracked. "I just think it's in both of
      our best interests to keep this to ourselves for now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Albus speculatively. "I would have thought you'd
      be a lot more vocal in championing an awkward reunion of
      sorts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fewer people aware that there is a new candidate for the
      prophecy, the better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Realization crossed Harry's face and he shook his head. "Sorry,
      Albus. But that prophecy isn't about me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You defeated the Voldemort of your world, didn't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What makes you think that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled. "You dueled him. And you were entirely too
      confident and comfortable. Sirius hid it pretty well, but his eyes
      showed worry and fear. Your only fear was for Sirius."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry admitted with a mixture of pain and pride. "I did
      defeat my Voldemort. But I can't <em class="calibre8">vanquish</em> this one any
      more than you can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned at the truthfulness he sensed. "Are you
      certain?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have some idea of the costs you paid to defeat your Dark
      Lord," Harry instructed. "And in case you missed it, Voldemort is
      not a dark wizard. He's a genuine Dark Lord and all that that
      implies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus winced as though the confirmation hurt him. "I had hoped
      that wasn't the case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned helplessly. "The muggles have a saying about
      putting all your hopes in one hand and then sh-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm familiar with the saying," Albus interrupted. "Thank you,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just trying to help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned in thought. "Was the cost to you simply too high
      to pay again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered the question before answering. "Yeah… I don't
      know. I'm not sure to be honest. But fortunately for me, it's not
      possible to pay again so I don't have to think about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was your cost?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was surprised Albus was asking so boldly. He let no
      emotion show as he watched the old man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded in understanding and voluntarily admitted, "I
      sacrificed the ability to father children and then I lost the
      ability to fall in love."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't known the specifics but guessed it had been
      something close to that for Albus. He knew how high that cost would
      be to a wizard like Albus. With a lick of his lips, Harry softly
      admitted, "I sacrificed my mother's everlasting soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus blinked in shock. "And what did you lose?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly shook his head. "My sacrifice was deemed
      sufficient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus couldn't even imagine what Harry felt. The word came out
      as a whisper. "How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I was a baby she gave her life to protect me from
      Voldemort. It meant his next Killing Curse marked my noggin and
      bounced back into his face. It also left me with a protection from
      him." Harry frowned adding, "until he overcame that too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded in comprehension. "And since you carried her
      protection…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was able to offer a soul other than my own," Harry finished
      for him. He sighed tiredly. "The worst part is that whenever I'm
      near the Lily Potter around here, the old magic wakes up and pulls
      on her soul. I'm like a harmless but annoying personal dementor to
      her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She mentioned feeling a draw to you," Albus agreed. "I assumed
      it was a mother's intuition not a… soul-sucking vortex."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't just think like a wizard. Any muggle will tell you it's
      <em class="calibre8">always</em> a soul-sucking vortex."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus saw the forced smile as Harry tried to joke about his
      sacrifice. He could tell this was not a burden Harry had dealt with
      as much as one the young man had simply ignored. He immediately
      concluded that Lily Potter would be a tremendous help to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop scheming," Harry grumbled. "I feel you plotting against
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Albus reflexively replied, well aware Harry would sense
      he wasn't sorry in the slightest. "I don't suppose you have a
      second mother's sacrificial protection and the willingness to
      barter their soul?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Just the one. But I do have a rather
      pesky ghost haunting me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus hadn't expected such a serious response. "Do you think
      he…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Harry snapped. "I tried her first. Didn't work. She's
      kind of sensitive about it now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would imagine so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled wanly. "Unfortunately, it furthered her delusion
      that we're destined to be together forever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know a tribal chief skilled in matters of necromancy and
      souls," Albus offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Believe me I've thought it about, <em class="calibre8">often</em>," Harry
      assured him. "But she usually behaves. And she was a good friend
      long before she became an ex."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're haunted by an ex-girlfriend?" Albus clarified smothering
      his own amusement. "Say the word. I can send a letter to my
      friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," Harry shook his head thinking how he actually needed
      Ginny's ghostly expertise. "She's a nuisance, but it's nice to have
      someone else who remembers our old world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus grinned as he felt the charm of brotherhood's nudge
      indicating that Harry was hiding something. "Old world? Does that
      mean you are here to stay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's the plan. The Exit to our old world was destroyed
      after I got pulled in. Wouldn't know how to get back even if it was
      still intact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not expecting any visitors? And no travelers beyond yourself
      and Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The one I studied was used for executions a century ago but it
      had been misaligned. When I corrected it, Sirius was the only one
      spit out in this world, from what I'm told."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded. "I believe it was 1903 when the dementor's kiss
      replaced execution as the highest form of punishment in our
      courts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds about right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus took another sip of his tea, thinking over all he'd
      learned so far. "Do you think perhaps it is your hope that the
      prophecy doesn't refer to you that's influencing your
      interpretation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not some wayward child, Albus," Harry retorted as he sat up
      a bit prouder. "I didn't just get a lucky shot in a duel. It was
      several years after <em class="calibre8">your death</em> that I finally defeated the
      bastard. And I don't appreciate feeling like a pawn in the game
      you're playing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus raised his hands in deference. "I am sorry if my
      conversation feels like manipulation to you. But it sounds like my
      counterpart may have wronged you and that is coloring your
      perceptions. To use your metaphor, I am not the chess master, but
      just another piece in the same game you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want no part of that game."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wish it were that simple," Albus admitted. "And while you may
      not be the king I'd hoped, you are still a knight, the same as me.
      Maybe you've not moved from your spot and maybe you won't have to,
      but I assure you, you are most definitely on the board."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "I think you've driven the metaphor into the
      ground."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought I might have," Albus admitted reaching for the candy
      dish on his desk. He pondered whether he even wanted to know. "Can
      I ask you a question?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Obviously, you've just done so," Harry said with a smirk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus grinned. "I've used that line on you, haven't I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave an affirmative nod and urged Albus to continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would it be beneficial for me to inquire about the details of
      my counterpart's demise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Albus was leaving the decision up to him. "It is not a
      situation that will repeat itself here, but it might help you to
      understand our relationship a bit better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sensed Harry was more affected than he was showing. "You
      were there, weren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Alright, first off, in my totally objective and
      unbiased opinion you should realize Severus Snape of my old world
      is a bigger asshole than you'd find on a blind giant's narcoleptic
      bride."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked vaguely unsettled as he processed the meaning.
      "Severus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry admitted before pausing. "I'm not sure the details
      of this world's Snape, but in my old one he joined the Death Eaters
      right out of school. There was probably some reason like the
      executive washroom for inner circle members had too much gold trim
      for his delicate sense of aesthetics. Whatever it was, he quickly
      turned traitor, secretly stabbing his new friends in the back, and
      became the Order's spy in the Dark Lord's organization."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was fighting a smile. "You could just say you weren't
      aware of Severus' motives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You weren't exactly forthcoming with that information any more
      than Snape was," Harry retorted. "As a result, you were the only
      person who trusted him. Probably on either side, come to think of
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is leading somewhere, isn't it," Albus encouraged. "You're
      not just insulting my Potions professor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Contrary to what you imply, merely insulting your Potions
      professor is in fact an excellent and worthwhile way to pass the
      time," Harry argued. "But yes, I'm getting there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus muttered to himself, "Maybe it's a Potter thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you think Snape would respond if all the Potters were
      dead except for a baby, especially one hailed as the savior and
      hero of the wizarding world while still in diapers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus briefly wondered if Severus would be able to set aside his
      bitterness. He stifled a snort. "Understood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyways, I'm just trying to explain the fact that my entire
      fifth year at Hogwarts you avoided me, until the end of the year
      when Sirius died—<em class="calibre8">or what passed for dead at the time</em>—and
      you only then informed me of the prophecy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned uncertainly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I say this so you understand that in sixth year, when you'd
      finally started to become something of a mentor to me, it was a
      pretty shitty thing you did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what did I do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You petrified me and covered me with an invisibility cloak as
      Death Eaters stormed the Astronomy Tower. Then you allowed yourself
      to get captured and let or more likely invited Severus to strike
      you down with a Killing Curse, sending you to your death and a
      grisly fall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sat there silently allowing Harry to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't move until you were dead," Harry weakly relayed. "I
      know Severus Snape could never really take you, but I guess you
      wanted to give him iron-clad proof of his loyalty to the Dark Lord.
      I think you had to have been sick and dying anyway, but I couldn't
      even get confirmation of that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus steepled his fingers in thought, "You will have a better
      idea of my counterpart's motivation but I am sorry you had to see
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's when things really started to go to hell in a hand
      basket too. With you dead, people lost hope and just wanted to give
      up. The second war got really bad after that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was saddened but could identify with the burden his
      counterpart had carried. "Were we close?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kind of, yeah," Harry paused thinking neither yes nor no
      sounded right. "I think we should've been closer and I don't doubt
      that you loved me like a grandson, but you messed up a lot where
      I'm concerned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Enlighten me," Albus cheerfully instructed. "So that I may
      avoid making the same mistakes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped himself from saying, 'just don't force me back to
      the Dursleys.' He took a sip of his tea and looked up at the eager
      Headmaster. "Don't worry. You can't make those particular mistakes
      again. I just had the one childhood to ruin and fragile emotional
      psyche to shatter. And besides, we've talked about my old world
      plenty. For all intents and purposes, that world was a long waking
      dream for me. Let's talk about this one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The experiences of our pasts define who we are today," Albus
      intoned. "But we can talk about this world. Would you like to join
      the Order?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fought a smile. "That was abrupt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded. "I suspect you will not accept my invitation at
      first, so I thought I should begin laying the groundwork for future
      overtures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blunt honesty too," Harry grinned. "I'll give you points for
      effort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked at Harry hopefully but nodded when the younger man
      made his denial clear. "Luckily for him but perhaps unfortunately
      for the Order, Severus Snape has never been a Death Eater in this
      world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave a look of mischief. "Are you sure? Would you bet your
      life on that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I trust Severus Snape," Albus said. "But alas, there are grains
      of truth in some of the stories surrounding his ill-fated attempt
      to join the Dark Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I promise not to enjoy them too much, could you tell me the
      real ones?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus scrutinized Harry. "I sincerely doubt you could make that
      promise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry agreed before forcing a twinkle into his eye.
      "Pretty please?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope that look you made rarely worked on me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never tried it on you," Harry said. "But it never worked on
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione <em class="calibre8">Granger</em>?" Albus asked and received an
      affirmative response. "Is that why you abducted her and took her to
      Africa?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just having a spot of fun," Harry replied. "And I'm quite sure
      my best friend Hermione would agree that this Hermione needed a
      kick in the pants and a poke in the-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Albus warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"…eye," Harry innocently finished. "Weren't you about to tell me
      about Snape's ill-fated attempt?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus took his time but obliged. "Severus had been denied back
      when he was student. But he had an acquaintance prepared to vouch
      for him. I called in a few favors and secured him a Ministry
      exemption for all non-harmful dark arts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Non-harmful?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded. "Severus' potion making skills were never in
      question, but it was required that he demonstrate some other
      coveted talents. He led his initiation evaluators-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Harry interrupted. "Initiation evaluators?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They may have been having a laugh at Severus' expense, but yes,
      they referred to themselves as initiation evaluators. As I was
      saying, Severus led them to a muggle woman that he specifically
      targeted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. "Yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus took a breath and reluctantly explained. "He intended to
      sow chaos and discord among countless muggles worldwide."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He didn't attack the Queen, did he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus shook his head quickly. "That rumor is patently false. No,
      the woman is simply an author, just an extremely popular one. His
      plan was to 'torture' muggles with a poorly written story."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry goggled. "<em class="calibre8">That</em> was his grand plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus winced. "Had I known his intentions beforehand I would
      have advised him against that course of action. But he had decided
      I would be better off ignorant of the details of his less than
      legal activities."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it the initiation evaluators were unimpressed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus took off his glasses to rub the bridge of his nose. "More
      amused than anything else. He misinterpreted their laughter and
      cheers and made a few boisterous comments that have since taken on
      a life of their own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe the Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes offer a shirt
      exclaiming, '<em class="calibre8">We will get them where we can hurt them the most.
      We will attack … at their leisure.</em>'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At their leisure?" Harry snickered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There may have been some strutting and billowing of his cloak
      when he said it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled at the image before frowning in consternation.
      "Does that mean you have no ears within the Dark Lord's ranks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus schooled his face showing no emotion. "It shouldn't
      surprise you that I won't be answering that question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point," Harry admitted. "So what can you tell me about
      That Fucker?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was momentarily shocked. "Excuse me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are <em class="calibre8">you</em> That Fucker?" Harry asked while openly
      inspecting Albus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assume you are referring to the mysterious wizard in black
      who occupies much of Voldemort's time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn," Harry swore, knowing it was an unlikely possibility.
      "That would have almost made sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus could tell Harry had concluded that he wasn't the
      mysterious wizard. "What do you know of the wizard that led you to
      suspect me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not much," Harry admitted. "Just that it's someone strong
      enough and willing to stand up to the Dark Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will admit that is a woefully short list."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And," Harry interrupted. "And I know this mysterious wizard
      didn't show up until after the disappearance of Neville Longbottom.
      Perhaps someone who knows the two first candidates were dead and he
      needed to wait for another son born at the end of a July. Someone
      with a little too much faith in the prophecy, believing he cannot
      vanquish the Dark Lord. So he does all he can to thwart Voldemort
      without actively engaging him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've thought this through," Albus replied slightly surprised
      he was a suspect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I would imagine that sometimes you… 'limit your
      arsenal' let's say. Because you are so widely perceived to be and
      looked upon as the consummate light wizard and role model."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think I could hide behind a mask and be a bit more
      ruthless?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted. "Do you really want me to answer that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned playfully. "No, I think you've answered it quite
      clearly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scratched his head. "In retrospect, it does sound a bit
      nutty. Even for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd like to think so," Albus agreed. "I should point out one
      fallacy of your logic is that the idea of waiting on a new subject
      for the prophecy is one that's widely shared by others. There are
      many people out there who actively avoid having children near the
      end of July for that very reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Makes sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well there are also those that induce birth just before
      midnight and the calendar turns to August, almost always leading to
      complications."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're kidding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus shook his head. "I'm afraid not. It appears that night is
      as cursed as the Defense Against the Dark Arts position. Speaking
      of, have you ever considered teaching?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Albus incredulously. "Bite me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus chuckled. "A 'no' would have been sufficient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But not as effective," Harry assured him. "I take it you're not
      one of those keeping their eyes on the maternity ward around the
      end of July?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sighed and sat back tiredly in his chair. "For many years,
      I had been holding on to the hope that Neville Longbottom is still
      out there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed the use of 'had' rather than 'have.' "You don't
      believe that anymore?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked at Harry innocently. "Not for the last couple of
      days, no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was quick to anger. "You still think its-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, Harry," Albus stopped him. "I firmly understand that
      you do not believe the prophecy applies to you. I may have
      reservations but I do not doubt that you have none. I'm not trying
      to pester you. I'm merely admitting that until a couple days ago, I
      had never questioned whether Neville was still out there somewhere.
      I had to believe he was. Your appearance gives me doubt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not me," Harry childishly pouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do keep in mind that until this conversation I was unaware that
      you already had defeated a Dark Lord and that Voldemort
      legitimately was one," Albus pointed out. "I don't think the
      prophecy refers to you, but I'm not certain. And you definitely…
      shake things up a bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you haven't squirreled Neville away for some special secret
      training?" Harry asked and saw the look on Albus' face. "Didn't
      think so. And you don't think Neville is That Fucker?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked at Harry curiously. "I assume from your
      preoccupation that your world had no such unknown wizard in
      black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope. My world was quite a bit different from this one," Harry
      admitted with a shrug. "Hell, probably the second most dangerous
      person and right hand to the Dark Lord was Bellatrix."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Albus asked in happy surprise. "I always knew Miss
      Black was quite powerful but… is that why you wanted to separate
      her from the Dark Lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Sure, I mean, that and… she's hot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hardly think being attractive should matter in this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe not," Harry playfully admitted. "But it helps when we
      loan her out for sex to our guests."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Albus reprimanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you think Jimmy likes coming over so much?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus lightly reminded, "With the charm, I can tell when you're
      lying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry agreed. "And Bellatrix is carrying Remus'
      illegitimate baby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus furrowed his brow in uncertainty. "At least I thought I
      could."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes were twinkling merrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think perhaps I could speak to Miss Black?" Albus saw
      Harry's look and added, "I'm willing to swear an oath to protect
      her from incriminating herself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not going to force her or even encourage her," Harry
      replied. "But I'll ask for you. It's up to her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Albus said with an approving nod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw Albus was already thinking about what to ask Bellatrix
      and changed the subject. "How'd he die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked up. "Who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That," Albus answered in irritation, "I do not know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, urging Albus to elaborate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Longbottoms were protected by a Fidelius Charm that was not
      broken," Albus explained. "I, myself, put up several other
      monitoring wards and security measures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anything interesting?" Harry asked. He explained, "Wards are
      something of a hobby of mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus inclined his head. "Are you familiar with the Greek
      wizard, Stavros?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let out a low whistle. "Those are some nice wards. Inside
      or outside the Fidelius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Outside," Albus replied. "I didn't know they could be placed
      inside."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "You'll need two separate sets of stones, and the
      inside ones have to be placed first. Then put up the Fidelius on
      the outer set, and bring in a second caster unaware of the Fidelius
      secret. You have to cast them blind because of the Fidelius, but
      they come out a lot stronger, bound within the secret."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Interesting," Albus commented imagining how difficult casting
      Stavros wards blindly would be. "I can tell you according to my
      monitors Neville never left the property. And after many
      inspections, I also can tell that he no longer lives within the
      wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry nodded. "That points to dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The most damning evidence was his mother's intuition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked having not even considered Neville's parents. "
      Alice thinks he's dead?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded. "I wonder if perhaps she felt a bond with her son
      disappear. She was certain he was dead and took her own life a
      month after Neville's disappearance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was immediately reminded of the story he'd given Lily
      Potter and frowned. "That sucks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry doubted the Neville he knew could even imagine leaving his
      parents with so much grief. "What about Frank?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled. "Were the Longbottoms friends of yours in your
      world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naw," Harry replied. "Bellatrix <em class="calibre8">crucio</em>ed their brains
      out when Neville was a baby. But Neville was a friend of mine… 'til
      he died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned uncertainly. "Sometimes I think you're just
      messing with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who? Moi?" Harry meekly said before abandoning the charade. "I
      could never pull off innocent. Even in the rare times I was
      innocent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Funny," Albus deadpanned. "The charm seems to think you're
      lying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," Harry softly conceded. "Maybe I can pull off
      innocent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville," Albus paused. "Neville was a very bright young boy.
      His situation gave him few social opportunities, but he had a love
      of learning and books that reminded me of myself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nerd, huh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Longbottoms had a pond in their backyard covered by the
      Fidelius and Neville could almost always be found under the shade
      of a tree reading. He barely ever left the home and wards, but he
      still carried a Martin Miggs backpack with him everywhere he went.
      He got tired of having to choose which of his favorite books could
      fit so he got a hold of his mother's wand and managed to charm his
      backpack larger on the inside." Albus smiled sadly. "I was so
      impressed that I offered to charm it featherweight for him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gave Albus a moment as he saw the old man was lost in
      memories. "So how did the prophecy get out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus muffled a displeased grumble. "I was always opposed to it
      getting out to anyone. Rumors had been spreading and then the
      papers started reporting unsubstantiated prophecies. Frank
      explicitly ignored my strongly worded advice and leaked the real
      prophecy's content and details."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doggie got off his leash?" Harry suggested. He gulped at the
      look on Albus' face and apologized immediately. "Sorry.
      Continue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Frank and I rarely saw eye to eye on what was in Neville's best
      interests."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was tempted to ask if Albus wanted Neville abused and
      unloved but held his tongue. "Like what?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There should never be a fine line between raising a son and
      raising a soldier," Albus answered. "And Frank felt Hogwarts would
      slow Neville down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's like a kick in the balls to you, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled. "I think the majority of the lessons at Hogwarts
      are not learned in the classrooms. Here is where children become
      young adults, learn to make friends, learn to care, learn to heal,
      <em class="calibre8">and</em> learn magic. Special students can always be
      accommodated with advanced tutoring but to view the Hogwarts
      experience as nothing more than training for-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Down boy," Harry interrupted. "I'm with you. Hogwarts,
      yay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus calmed. He reached for his candy dish and popped one in
      his mouth. "Yay indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what's Frank up to these days?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus pursed his lips on the sour candy in his mouth. "I haven't
      seen him in six years. He's been trying to run away from his past.
      I visited him after he'd checked himself into a home for mental
      healing in Australia. The healer felt I would help Frank confront
      some of his issues. I don't think he's returned to England in over
      twenty years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned and wondered if catatonic Frank might have been
      better off. "So who do you think That Fucker is? Straight answer,
      please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't the foggiest," Albus happily replied. "I spent many
      years trying to uncover more on the mysterious wizard in
      black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely you've got a guess," Harry pleaded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have several guesses, none of which seem remotely probable.
      And no, I wouldn't care to share them," Albus grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I don't know who he is but I have crossed his path on a
      couple of occasions," Albus explained. "One time I unwittingly
      walked right into a trap of his and found myself bound and
      wandless. He let me go with only minor humiliation, leading me to
      believe he is not an enemy. And the mystery of his identity has
      kept Voldemort occupied and confused for decades now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You?" Harry repeated doubtfully. "Don't know something and are
      willing to leave it be? Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, really. The wizard in black has managed to keep his
      identity from both myself and Voldemort. And as long as it remains
      secret, Voldemort will be hesitant and tentative. I have a very
      good idea of how much worse things could be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"From what I hear That Fucker avoids confronting Voldemort. Not
      that he's scared or unable but that he's just being annoying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled widely. "That sounds like vaguely familiar press
      for a couple of new Lords I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry realized he'd walked right into that one. "Yeah, but we're
      pretty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus paused contemplating whether to contend that point before
      moving on. "I think it's possible that the wizard in black is doing
      all he can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is remarkably well-informed," Albus replied. "And it is
      entirely possible that the magic of the Dark Mark prevents people
      from directly confronting Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think he's a Death Eater?" Harry asked in surprise while
      running through all the inner circle names he could remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus shrugged. "I have several guesses. Some more plausible
      than others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah?" Harry questioned. "What's your craziest?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't exactly ranked them," Albus replied. "But a number of
      questions remain about your counterpart's death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry recalled what Bellatrix had revealed. "You think it might
      be me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I never said that, I said questions remain. I don't know what
      you've been told, but there was nothing natural about the manner in
      which Voldemort killed you. Foul, dark magic unlike any I've felt
      before was involved." Albus shuddered. "It wasn't like any
      summoning ritual I've read about, but your deaths were not simple
      murder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smothered a grin. "You think Voldemort might have summoned
      a demon That Fucker?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You asked for the craziest," Albus replied. "But I get the
      feeling you know more about that night than I."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Albus before answering, "I suppose unless you're
      confronted with it, you assume Voldemort's claims of nearing
      immortality are nothing more than hollow boasting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore blanched and whispered out, "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced and asked, "Have you ever heard of a… horcrux?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus pursed his lips and searched the recesses of his mind. "I
      don't think I have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sensed only truth from the charm and nodded. He almost
      wished he could take that word back but figured he'd let the
      Headmaster figure it out on his own. "So that's your craziest?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus considered pushing Harry on the subject but realized Harry
      wanted him to discover something himself. He would ask Harry more
      questions when he had the right questions to ask. "Well, I suppose
      now we should give serious consideration to the possibility of
      travelers from another world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Touché," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus took a moment to choose his words carefully. "May I ask
      you something personal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at his watch. "Yeah, sure. But don't waste your
      last question on something you know I won't answer. I'm going to
      get going after this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was hoping to hear in your own words why you aren't more
      opposed to the Dark Lord Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up. "Truthfully? I guess it's really that he hasn't
      done anything to me. I'm like the out-of-towner who just moved to a
      new country. While I'm not in favor of my neighbor's death, I don't
      feel any attachment to them. And as different as the worlds are, I
      can't see the same darkness in similar eyes nor do I receive the
      same kindness from the familiar faces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For me it's simply like everyone are strangers wearing masks of
      my old friends. If I have to view them that way, then a wizard
      wearing a mask of the Dark Lord must be held to the same standard.
      So far this Voldemort took his ass-kicking and has left me alone.
      My old Headmaster always told me it was the choices we make that
      define who we are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus grumbled good-naturedly. "That sounds like my usual trite
      rubbish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would probably try and argue that Sirius and I have already
      been through a war and deserve a break, but we're both adrenaline
      junkies who enjoy havoc too much for that excuse to hold
      water."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't say," Albus dryly agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the other main thing is that I absolutely adore the fact
      that my life in this world has been so relaxing and…
      <em class="calibre8">normal</em>! I'm just another wizard here. It's beyond
      refreshing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus blinked in shock. He made sure the brotherhood charm was
      still in effect. "Well on behalf of this world, we're happy to have
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now do you mind paying a little rent and vanquishing the Dark
      Lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm willing to treat you normal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt the charm twitch. "Liar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was about to clarify when he sensed a warning. He held up
      a hand stopping Harry from talking just as the current Head Boy
      burst into the Headmaster's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced over at the out of breath youngest Potter.
      "Jimmy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy was gob smacked staring at Harry and the Headmaster in
      turn. He was panting from sprinting down here and pulled the
      magical parchment out of his pocket to make sure his eyes weren't
      playing tricks on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the Headmaster looking genuinely surprised and did not
      recognize the Marauder's Map for what it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus leaned forward and asked, "Mr. Potter? What is so
      important that you felt the need to burst into my office?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy looked at the map and back three more times continuing to
      ignore the Headmaster. He stared right at Harry, begging for an
      explanation. "You're Harry… <em class="calibre8">Potter</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry flashed an irritated look at Albus and stood up. "I think
      that's about as crystal clear as a cue to leave can be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, wait!" Jimmy pleaded. "I just… I mean… <em class="calibre8">huh</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not pass on this golden opportunity," Albus warned Harry.
      "And I hope to speak to you again soon, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at his hand and then the Headmaster. "Feel like
      leaving the charm up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Delighted to," Albus agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slung an arm over the confused and wary Head Boy's
      shoulder. "Tell me, Jimmy, have you ever played the obliviate
      game?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!" Albus scolded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point," Harry nodded firmly. "Let's get you away from
      these pesky over-protective Hogwarts wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy looked to the Headmaster before turning to Harry and
      shrugging. "Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"James?" Albus warily inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As Head Boy I can leave the grounds," Jimmy claimed. "Besides,
      he's my brother. What's he gonna do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Albus," Harry parroted. "What am I going to do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus slumped back in his chair in tired acceptance of the
      situation. "Good night, <em class="calibre8">children</em>," he pouted with emphasis
      on the last word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Refresh my memory," Jimmy said beginning the walk down the
      spiral staircase. "I think I've played the obliviate game before
      but I'm kind of fuzzy on the rules."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus really hoped Jimmy was kidding.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
