<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER TWENTY SIX, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 26</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre10"><strong class="calibre7">The Noble and Most Ancient House of
      Black</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre10"><em class="calibre8">in accordance with</em></p>
      <p class="calibre10">GRINGOTTS of LONDON</p>
      <p class="calibre10"><em class="calibre8">on the 24th of May at 8:00 PM will be holding
      a PRIVATE auction of three distinct and separate lots.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre10"><span>Attendance by Invitation Only</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">LOT 1 - <strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Ravenclaw's Cube</em></strong>: A personal
      project of the intelligent founder of Hogwarts, Rowena Ravenclaw's
      cube paved the way for the creation of the modern pensieve. This
      cube is believed to be the first man-made device capable of holding
      memories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">LOT 2 - <strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Slytherin's Locket</em></strong>: The
      personal talisman Salazar Slytherin wore around his neck in the
      years after banishment from Hogwarts. Rumored to possess secret
      powers, the efficacy of the magic of the locket is <span>not</span>
      guaranteed by Gringotts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">LOT 3 - <strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Hufflepuff's Cup</em></strong>: This ancient
      chalice was used by the kind-hearted founder to administer potions
      in the very first incarnation of the Hogwarts' hospital wing. It is
      unknown how long the cup has been in the Hufflepuff family, but it
      predates Helga Hufflepuff herself by at least six centuries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Gringotts of London affirms and certifies the authenticity
      of all lots as announced.<br class="calibre4"/>
      If you believe you have received an invitation in error or did not
      receive an invitation you should have, please direct your questions
      and concerns to Gringotts. Ask for Bloodthrust.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Bloodthrust?" Lawson questioned from behind his Death Eater
      mask. "A goblin is running this?"</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Cavanagh said pointing at the formal announcement in the
      legal notices section of the Daily Prophet. "Check it out. They
      even included a picture of the goblin. I'm not sure, but I think it
      might be smiling."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawson flinched at the gruesome winking visage. "Have you
      informed our Lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you kidding?" Cavanagh scoffed. "I've been around too long
      to fall for that one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawson frowned. "Does he not know yet? He's going to want his
      ancestor's locket."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sudden and violent shout pierced the air right before both men
      felt the tattoos on their arms burn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cavanagh winced. "I think it's safe to say he knows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cavanagh and Lawson hurried in behind Simmons to their Master's
      chambers and found Jugson and the Dark Lord awaiting them. They
      could all feel the anger rolling off the Dark Lord and as he
      crumpled a scorched copy of the Daily Prophet in his left hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Spread the word," Voldemort instructed as the three newcomers
      bowed and waited attentively. "It's open season on all Blacks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cavanagh looked his Master in the eye and was quickly reminded
      of his place as the Dark Lord shredded his meager mental shields
      and implanted a series of visual locations. Cavanagh forced his
      eyes closed as he tore his gaze away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort's breathing quieted as he ordered. "You are to check
      those sites, but touch nothing. Understood?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cavanagh mutely nodded. He took careful measured steps as he
      left the room, still dazed from the rough mental intrusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lawson," Voldemort whispered dangerously. "You are to follow
      Cavanagh but do not interfere. He may pick up other tails, so make
      sure you are undetected. If he is killed or captured, you are to
      report immediately to me. Do not assist him. Understood?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lawson nodded firmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not fail me." The Dark Lord turned to Simmons, indicating
      Lawson was dismissed. "Simmons. You are to find out everything you
      can about the auction in three days. I expect a full report by this
      evening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Simmons nodded and briskly left the room, leaving Jugson alone
      with the Dark Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your arm," Voldemort demanded as he twirled the wand in his
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jugson pushed his sleeve up again, revealing the Dark Mark. He
      grimaced but made no other movement as his arm burned and the Dark
      Lord's magic was channeled through the Mark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort smiled at Jugson's obedience. "Lucius is on his way.
      Open a line of communication with our contact at Hogwarts. I have a
      special plan that will require a few of our allies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jugson perked up at the mention of allies and a wide smile grew
      across his face. "I look forward to it, my Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort scowled, angry at himself more than anything. He had
      managed to underestimate the Lord Blacks again. He wondered briefly
      if he had been too hasty in assuming they had nothing to do with
      the biggest thorn in his side.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"That fucker!"</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't you mean-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Those</em> fuckers!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan Weston winced. He knew he was going to be the bearer of bad
      news as soon as he saw the auction announcement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot believe they would do this," the wizard ranted as he
      reread the legal notices section at the start of the Daily Prophet
      classifieds. "Auctioning off the Dark Lord's soul? That's
      madness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is a bit nutty," Alan agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mysterious wizard was pacing across the room. "They have to
      know the only people who matter will see it's nothing but a
      trap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh right," Alan agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's got to be more to this," the wizard concluded as he
      settled into an immaculate armchair. He looked over the paper again
      seeking out clues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan recognized the other wizard's expression when everything
      slid into place. "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This isn't about Voldemort, this is about me," the wizard in
      black explained ruefully. "I did not see this coming. It's every
      bit as stupid as it is cunning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I take it we have them to thank for Malfoy's weeklong
      barbecue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They got my note." The man nodded with certainty. He considered
      his options. "They're forcing me to attack a certain trap, look
      like a scared liar, or show up and play nice on their turf by their
      rules."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan frowned. "I'm guessing option one is out and two isn't
      really your style."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," the wizard said. "We're definitely going and playing nice.
      We have to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man nodded as he poured himself some brandy. "This is too
      immense an opportunity to pass up even if they are forcing our
      hand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you not notice? There are three objects in the auction." He
      took a sip and saw Alan's look of confusion. "Unless I've misjudged
      the Blacks further, those three will complete the collection. And
      while they've announced it with the subtlety of a nesting dragon,
      it still is two weeks until the full moon, which is the soonest
      Voldemort could even attempt making another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan blinked in shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard smirked. "Even if he could, I doubt he'd succeed on
      his first try. His soul is too fractured."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alan was watching the other man desperately. "Are you
      saying…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," the man in black slowly agreed. He took another sip.
      "Those fuckers have started the clock."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"My clock's stopped."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus picked up the magical device on the corner of his desk. He
      looked in a gap at the top curiously. "Is that…?" Albus took a
      careful sniff and jerked the clock away. "It smells like the
      owlery. Fawkes, do you know if the pooping owl is back again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes let out a chirp of annoyance before he realized he had
      shifted in his sleep and was about to fall from his perch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've apologized numerous times," Albus assured the phoenix. "I
      never should have accused you of defecating on my desk."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes let out a stream of soft chirping as he waddled his way
      back to the center of the perch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something in today's paper, you say?" Albus asked in surprise.
      He picked up the lifestyle and sports sections he had discarded
      earlier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes was about to settle back into the middle of his perch
      when he realized the balance felt off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus' eyes lost their twinkle as he read through the auction
      announcement several times. "I don't understand it, Fawkes. Why
      would Harry do this? What could they possibly gain from this
      auction?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bird gave up on figuring out what was wrong with the balance
      and sat back down, facing Albus. He chirped a little wondering why
      his tail feathers itched.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Albus disagreed. "It's not about the money. I'm almost
      certain. This is… this is… kicking a hornets' nest to see if there
      are any hornets? Or to see if they will attack?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes tilted his head, stretching out the kinks in his
      neck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're right, of course," Albus said with a nod. "This is why
      the Lupins both took the next few days off from work. Harry and
      Sirius have clearly put some thought into this, even if we cannot
      divine their motivation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes wiggled his bottom half as he slid back into a flatter
      position on his perch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you really think so?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes let out a small chirp as the cold metal of the perch
      startled him on his sensitive under feathers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know, my friend," Albus smiled at the phoenix. "I should have
      some faith in them. They are no doubt under an immense amount of
      charms and wards. And they are protecting the other Blacks, so they
      have a plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes let out several more chirps as his own body heat was
      countering the chilly metal he rested upon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My goodness, you're right," Albus gasped. "They don't… Harry
      never… Oh dear. Harry has no idea that Voldemort has made the
      Potter connection and is aware Harry and Sirius are not native to
      this world. This is no good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes warbled quietly, wishing Albus wasn't so chatty today. He
      lifted his right wing before folding it back under in a more
      comfortable position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus turned to the wall Fawkes pointed at. "The chocolate frog
      cards! You're a genius, Fawkes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes closed his eyes and decided it was nap time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus began digging into his pockets until he located his
      chocolate frog card. "Remus Lupin!" he clearly stated towards the
      small magical portrait of himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The surface of the card blurred and darkened, ending with only
      an inky color. "Albus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Remus," Albus answered feeling perturbed. "I cannot see
      you. Can you see me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Remus replied. "I know Harry's warded this place to high
      heaven. Let me ask him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry's muffled voice could be barely heard. "You can
      hear him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus patiently listened as Remus and Harry were talking on the
      other side of the connection.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about now?" Harry distantly yelled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No change," Remus' voice replied. "Shouldn't you be taking some
      of the wards down, not putting more up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Remus shouted back. He leaned closer and clearly said,
      "I'm sorry about this, Albus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite alright," Albus replied. "These things happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This should do it," Harry's far off cry was the last thing
      Albus heard before the black surface disappeared and the chocolate
      frog card returned to its inert state.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The holographic portrait of himself smiled and waved up at
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus frowned. "You're mocking me, aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The small picture responded by grabbing the bottom of his beard
      and feeding it into his own ear. After two fistfuls had been pushed
      in, the tip of the beard emerged out of his ear on the other side.
      The chocolate frog card proceeded to tug his beard left and right
      through his own supposedly empty head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus picked the card up and spoke clearly into it again. "Remus
      Lupin!" After a few seconds of nothing happening, he intoned,
      "Tonks Lupin!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again there was no response, so Albus tried, "Nymphadora Lupin?
      Nymphadora Tonks Lupin? Auror Lupin? Auror Tonks Lupin?" Albus
      sighed as he was forced to accept the fact that Harry had not been
      adjusting his wards so they could communicate better. "That bloody
      annoying bastard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The surface of the chocolate frog card darkened to blackness.
      The illusion of creamy off-white smoke billowed out revealing the
      worried face of Severus Snape. "What is it, Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus blinked. "My apologies, Severus. I did not mean to call
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was a little worried at the rare surprised look on
      Albus' face. "I shall return to my class."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus just nodded, deactivating the chocolate frog card. "I'll
      need to watch what I say around you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The holographic picture just nodded as Albus stuffed the card
      back into one of his pockets.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked over and saw Fawkes staring at him. "They are most
      likely under a Fidelius charm and beyond a post owl's reach. I
      could ask to borrow Mr. Potter's mirror but I suspect that would
      upset Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes doubted Albus would ever let him get any sleep and flew
      over to his desk, intending to express his displeasure in a way
      that would ruin the mystery of the pooping owl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus watched the large avian lift its leg and exclaimed. "Of
      course! You can reach him still!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes was startled and couldn't stop himself fast enough. He
      saw his pet human was engrossed in penning a short note. Fawkes
      took the opportunity to drag Albus' hat in small unnoticed steps,
      until he'd fully covered up the small accident.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus read through the note a second time and nodded. He folded
      it up and sealed the envelope with a tap of his wand. "Can you get
      this to Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes figured if he was going to get any sleep, he should just
      take the note and not put up a fight. He grabbed it in his beak and
      disappeared in a flash of fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus relaxed when he saw Fawkes return and settle right back
      into his favorite position on the perch. He decided he should warn
      the Minister and DMLE to be especially alert for the next few days.
      He stood up and turned to the large portrait of a fourteenth
      century Headmaster. "I believe we should prepare Hogwarts
      defenses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wise move, Headmaster," the portrait agreed as it swung open
      revealing a darkened room. "Do you think they know what they are
      doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let us hope so."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Stop! Stop! You have no idea what you're doing."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pulled his wand back from the portrait's surface. "I don't
      see you giving me any ideas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The irate portrait of Lord Eugene Simmons growled at Harry. "I
      don't know the first thing about manipulating portraits and I
      certainly wouldn't tell you if I did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please?" Harry asked hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The portrait just stared at Harry in disgust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hence," Harry grinned pushing his wand onto the nameplate at
      the bottom of the frame. "Trial and error."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be honest, Harry." Sirius chided from the other side of the
      room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Harry agreed. "Error and error." He sent a burst of
      barely-formed magic into the portrait's frame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The magic soaked into the carved wood, visibly flowing up the
      top and then cascading back down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought he may have stumbled across something when the
      magic reached the nameplate at the base again and spewed fire at
      him, catching his sleeve. "Ahh!" he shouted as he tried to rub the
      small flames out. He was rubbing furiously, making little headway,
      when his flailing arms caught a wingback chair on fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's wits finally came back to him and he was about to
      squelch the fire when he was blasted into the wall by massive
      stream of water from Sirius' fire hose charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was swinging his arm back and forth between Harry and the
      chair. Both were completely drenched and the fire was out, but
      Harry made girlish yelps every time the stream pinned him against
      the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fire hose charm failed when Sirius was flipped in the air
      and dangling by his ankle. "Harry," he whined before falling the
      short distance back to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uhh," Harry wheezed after having the wind knocked out of him by
      the overzealous fire-fighting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oww," Sirius groaned after landing on his tailbone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The mocking laughter of Lord Simmons reminded them they were not
      alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you laughing at?" Harry grumbled as he took off his
      soggy robe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Simmons looked down from his frame. "I'm laughing at a pair
      of morons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Laugh it up," Sirius said standing as he rubbed his sore bum.
      "Then remember your families have been exposed as Death Eater scum
      and we took all your good shit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A cacophony of angry ranting started cascading in from all
      directions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nice, Padfoot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, Harry," Sirius said as they left the room filled with
      angry shouting portraits. "Our master plan of a giant portrait spy
      network isn't quite ready for the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I figured since we were in lockdown, I might as
      well work on something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wrung his dripping robe out, before remembering Fawkes had
      interrupted him earlier. He dug into his robe pocket and pulled out
      a scorched and blurry ink-stained envelope. He tried to open the
      letter and just tore the soggy parchment. "Great. You ruined
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't blame me," Sirius defended. "That thing is more burnt
      than wet. What'd it say anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus was calling us foolish and trying to talk us out of the
      auction, no doubt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No doubt?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hadn't read it yet, but I think we can both guess most of
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius scratched his chin. "You think maybe he was trying to
      bid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just looked at his godfather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, didn't think so," Sirius agreed. "So I got the portkey
      working on the display case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "Magic detection is still finicky. But I got
      bored and figured we should entertain our prisoners."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guests, Sirius," Harry corrected. "They're called guests."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"What are you doing?" Remus questioned when he saw Tonks
      using the tip of her wand to dig into the surface of the kitchen
      table.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks didn't even look up. "I'm counting the days we're
      imprisoned here since time has lost all meaning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not that bad," Remus reminded his adopted daughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks kept scraping and pouted, "Have you even been listening to
      what they're talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus gave his daughter a gentle pat on the back as he turned to
      hear the ghost of Ginny Weasley shriek as powerfully as her
      mother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can you joke about domestic abuse? Battered women are-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not talking about women," Sirius interrupted the ghost.
      "I'm talking about men."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well the men probably deserved it," Bellatrix argued, belatedly
      noticing Remus and Tonks were also paying attention. She was
      dipping a large pickle into a jar of peanut butter and snapping off
      progressively louder bites. "I know most women do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks glanced at her father before asking Bellatrix, "You really
      don't know how normal people live, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix dunked another pickle and looked to Harry and Sirius
      for help. "Most people don't deserve to be abused? Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two Lupins, two Lord Blacks, and ghost all looked at the
      woman pitifully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Bellatrix considered while stirring up her peanut butter.
      "That doesn't sound right at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway," Ginny said trying to get back on topic. "What were we
      talking about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How clueless Harry is when it comes to women," Bellatrix
      reminded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not clueless," Harry argued. "I know the important
      stuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "I taught him the twenty-seven primary and
      secondary erogenous zones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it still twenty-seven?" Remus sought a definitive
      answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think the female body has evolved recently," Harry said
      doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "Yeah, well, my astronomy professor told me
      Pluto was a planet and I didn't think <em class="calibre8">that</em> would change
      either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks turned to her dad and explained, "I know how unlikely it
      is that stupid has suddenly become contagious, but I'm just not
      sure it's worth risking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be nice," he scolded with a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jumped up and was patting down the various pockets of his
      cloak, before locating the warm buzzing Lookie Talkie. The image on
      the handheld mirror faded away revealing Jimmy's frantic face.
      "Harry! Thank Merlin you're there!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Jimmy? What's happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hogwarts is in lockdown because there was some sort of attack,
      but I can't reach Dad who never takes his auror bracelet off and I
      heard them talking to Mum about Potters and Sarah was in Hogsmeade
      and then the Headmaster-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whoa! Whoa," Harry said. "Take a breath. Are you under attack
      right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy shook his head and calmly summarized. "I'm in my room. The
      floo system is down. Hogwarts is surrounded by a giant dome that
      even blocks the secret passages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When did you last hear from your Dad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This morning. He had to go to Malfoy Manor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shit." Harry succinctly replied. "We're coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get Sarah. She was in Hogsmeade when the dome went up," Jimmy
      urged before deactivating his mirror. "I think this attack may be
      targeted at us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry clicked off his Lookie Talkie and saw everyone looking at
      him. "Shit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All traces of annoyance gone, Tonks was focused and ready.
      "Ministry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go ahead," Harry said. "But be careful and plan to come back
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks apparating away snapped Remus out of his thoughtful daze.
      "This is your fault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it is," Harry agreed. "And now we need to fix it.
      Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just bloody perfect," Sirius exclaimed knowing what he had to
      do. "I'm going solo. I don't trust apparating more than him with
      me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll hit Hogsmeade and see if I can find a trail," Harry
      agreed. "Be careful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius popped up to his room to get his gear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix," Harry said. "You are not to leave these wards
      unless in imminent danger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix nodded figuring as much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry winced at the look Remus was giving him. "Your chocolate
      frog will probably be ringing off the hook as soon as you leave
      these wards. But you mind doing me a favor first?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus nodded but had questions of his own. "Where'd Sirius
      go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's gearing up before going to Malfoy Manor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Bellatrix. "Earmuffs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She obediently put the peanut butter covered pickle into her
      mouth and covered both of her ears with her hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Remus and explained, "Sirius is still keyed into
      the wards at Malfoy Manor. Odds are James is trapped in a hidden
      dungeon, and Sirius is going to break him out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus didn't want to blame Harry and Sirius for this but was
      failing to find reasons not to. "What makes you so sure he's still
      alive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath and saw Bellatrix was still keeping her
      ears covered. "Because Voldemort's planning on bidding with the
      lives of Potters." Harry closed his eyes as he let his magical arms
      out, flailing them around to taste and sense the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What favor did you need?" Remus asked as he felt Harry's magic
      emanating around him and knew he was about to leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Floo, owl, visit, or somehow check on Lord Peter Potter," Harry
      said calmly with his eyes shut. "Maybe get him and any other
      Potters to Hogwarts, if they want. Something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll check on him," Remus assured Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you." Harry's eyes snapped opened. "Be careful."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a soft pop, Harry reappeared at the primary apparition
      point in Hogsmeade. He waited a second ensuring Ginny's ghostly
      form hadn't stayed visible. Witches were herding young children out
      of the streets and people were taking cover, peering out storefront
      doors and windows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spotted smoke in the distance and attempted to apparate
      down the lane. He flickered right back into place and felt the
      echoing thump of anti-apparition wards in his head. He quickly
      broke into a run towards the fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ducking under a spell, Harry slid to a stop and turned towards
      the caster. Another spell crashed right into a magical shield as he
      raised it. He located a lone Death Eater hiding in the shadows and
      began a brisk walk up to the man. "Not under orders to leave me
      alone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Avada Kedavra</em>!" the masked man shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry whipped a small rock right up into the path of the killing
      curse as two other magical arms grabbed the Death Eater and bodily
      yanked him into the street.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was fighting against the forces suspending him in air and
      nearly had his wand aimed at Harry. "<em class="calibre8">Sapi</em>-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop that." Harry calmly twisted the man's wrist and
      effortlessly ripped the wand from his hand. The wand floated into
      one of Harry's pockets as he held the man up. "Where is she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man was struggling in Harry's arms, and whipping his head
      side to side to avoid Harry's gaze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both of the Death Eater's arms snapped, broken at the elbow, and
      he screamed in pain. Harry again asked, "Where is she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man stopped shrieking but was still fighting Harry's grip.
      "You're too late. By now she-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A massive explosion blew out the front door of Madam Puddifoot's
      and several shouts of distress could be heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stunned the Death Eater before he could say anything else.
      From what the Death Eater was saying and the sound of fighting,
      Harry deduced Sarah was still in Hogsmeade, which meant keeping her
      here became priority. He knew altering the current portkey and
      apparition wards would take too long, so he quickly cast some of
      his own and tied them into an anchor stone he'd driven into the
      ground. He stunned the Death Eater once more and hid the anchor
      under his unconscious body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two more Death Eaters came out of Madam Puddifoot's and Harry
      charged straight for them. Neither got a shield up in time, but the
      one on the left managed to yell, "It's Black!" before his head hit
      the wall knocking him out cold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go get him!" was shouted from the back of the tea shop just
      before a stream of better than a dozen Death Eaters came flowing to
      the front. Shields were up and the curses began to rain down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let an unconscious Death Eater serve as his human shield,
      taking the brunt of the curses headed his direction. He was about
      charge headfirst into the fray when his ears caught the sounds of
      fighting coming from the back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Help!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided a change in tactics was needed once he knew she
      was okay and roughly her location. He launched the mangled corpse
      towards the largest pack of Death Eaters and ran out the front
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Four more Death Eaters were waiting in the street and began
      firing uncoordinatedly. Harry returned their curses with several of
      his own, putting them on the defensive and knocking out one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An invisible arm yanked the wrist of a Death Eater sending his
      curse directly into the face of his comrade. Another invisible arm
      grabbed the unconscious Death Eater by the ankle and dragged him
      behind Harry, as he circled around to the back of the building.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rear door was charmed to not open, but four simultaneous
      well-placed punches proved the same could not be said for the
      door's frame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry again let an unconscious floating Death Eater lead his
      way. Spells tore apart the robed shield, giving away the attackers'
      locations. Harry deftly knocked out the two Death Eaters in the
      back room and pocketed their wands too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Help!" Sarah shrieked from the next room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry dropped the smoldering body and barreled his way through
      the side door. Two stunners took out the Death Eaters furthest from
      him, while a massive man had a handful of Sarah Potter's hair. She
      was unsuccessfully struggling to free herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The near giant whipped his head around faster than should be
      possible for a man his size. "You!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes quickly determined there were no other immediate
      threats and he answered, "Me." A sharp crack erupted as the Death
      Eater's head spun around to face the other way. His body went limp
      and he fell forward with a loud thump.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah scrambled away from the ogre's body to retrieve her wand.
      She looked warily at his eyes, frozen open behind the Death Eater
      mask. "You killed him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was feeling slightly exhausted already and saw an
      opportunity. "Don't move," Harry instructed as he positioned
      himself right next to her. Four anchor stones floated in the air
      chest high, making a perfect square.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held his wand perpendicular to the floor in the exact
      center of the square just as Death Eaters appeared at both doors.
      "<em class="calibre8">Fidelio</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Magic erupted into a flat plane rushing into the stones and
      sending magical walls growing until they met the floor and the
      ceiling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the Death Eaters that had been watching what was happening
      cried out in pain and clenched their eyes shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah saw Harry relax and hunch forward, resting his hands on
      his knees as he caught his breath. She saw more and more Death
      Eaters come into the room, none of which seemed capable of locating
      them. She saw the magic slowly flowing up and down from the four
      stones, flickering intermittently between solid and a hazy opaque
      veil. "What is this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't touch it, please," Harry warned when he saw Sarah was
      mesmerized by the look of the magic on this side. He stood up and
      pulled out a pair of pepper-up potions. He swallowed one dose and
      held out the other to her. "Pepper-up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah accepted the potion gratefully, realizing she could take a
      moment to heal her ankle and numb some of her bruises.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled as steam trickled out his ears. "This is a spell I
      made. Well, a friend of mine helped me but mostly I made it. I call
      it a Fidelius cage."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How's it work?" Sarah asked as she trailed her wand over a cut
      on Harry's cheek.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry appreciated the quick heal and smiled at her intellectual
      curiosity. "It's sort of an unfinished Fidelius charm, without a
      secret let alone a keeper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah was impressed. "From what little I know that shouldn't be
      possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Technically, this Fidelius only covers the thin layer of magic
      and not the space in between. That's why I was able to eliminate
      the secret keeping aspects. The spell inevitably fails because
      there's no capping the anchors. But as long as I keep feeding it a
      little magic, it keeps trying to complete the charm, protecting us
      in a place that can only be accessed from below and above."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was watching the magic flowing out of view into the floor
      and ceiling. "How long can you keep it up?" Sarah blushed when
      Harry bit back a snort. "The spell, you pervert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the majority of the Death Eaters were still in the
      room, trying to locate them. "Not indefinitely, so how about we put
      off the rest of this discussion until later and get ready to bust
      our way out of here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Sarah agreed, before paling at the sheer number of
      Death Eaters currently in the room. "I don't suppose you can move
      the cage with us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Sorry. A mobile Fidelius is still beyond
      me. But I have ideas on how to anchor one to the moon instead of
      the Earth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could that help us here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then let's table that discussion too," Sarah urged, noticing
      more men coming back into the room. "You think we're going to get
      out of here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw there had to be two dozen men crammed in the small
      room and immediately beyond the doors. Harry grinned dangerously.
      "There's no doubt in my mind we're getting out of here. I'm just
      not sure how many of them will." Harry noticed Sarah frowning. "You
      know what they were going to do to you, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah swallowed to hide the lump in her throat. "I have a fair
      idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good. Because I'm feeling violent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah knew that feeling well, experiencing it at least once a
      month. "I just want to get out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded towards the door he'd burst through. "That way's
      shorter, but they've probably got a welcoming party waiting around
      the corner. I say we go through the front and if we happen to
      destroy a fair amount of this god forsaken place, then so be
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah thought Harry looked a little too eager. "It's a tea
      shop."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a tool of dark witches," Harry argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Discussion? Later?" Sarah reminded pointing towards the Death
      Eaters who appeared to be attempting group scrying in a more
      coordinated manner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry agreed. "Okay, you? Stay behind me and stay out
      of my way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can help," Sarah argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want to help?" Harry said taking a deep breath and getting
      back into the right mindset. "Stun anyone moaning in pain. The
      whiners really grate on my nerves. Ready?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah nodded and Harry turned his back to her. He prepared two
      magical arms while four others gently gripped the cage's anchor
      stones. "Stay close. And don't fight me when I push and pull you
      around."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Sirius apparated into the ward room at Malfoy Manor. He chose
      there because it was the place he knew best that was not currently
      a raging inferno. He called for Kreacher and stunned the elf
      immediately.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">He tightened his outer chameleon cloak and disillusioned
      himself. He'd taken barely three steps, when he heard voices
      approaching. Sirius just held his breath and didn't move from the
      wall. He kept a shield on the tip of his tongue as two masked Death
      Eaters scurried by wondering, "Why the hell would they need
      reinforcements to grab the girl?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius silently thanked his godson and crept down the hall. He
      was fortunate that he and Harry had dissected the entire manor
      layout, so he knew where the secret passage to the dungeon was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He snuck a glance into the drawing room spewing fire out the
      roof and couldn't stop grinning. The room was luckily empty as
      Sirius scampered across the hall into a living room with a six
      meter high mirror. Sirius shook his head at how fitting that was
      and hurried over to the grandfather clock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius pulled out his omnioculars and swore at the volume of
      wards covering the secret entrance behind the clock. There was no
      way he could get through that door without drawing a ton of notice
      even if he did have the Dark Mark. He twisted a couple of knobs on
      the omnioculars and grinned in delight at the obvious
      oversight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After double-checking there was no one in the hallway headed
      this way, Sirius ran over to the wall just to the side of the door
      and pushed an illusory pin into the ground. He cast the spell
      storing the current appearance as the illusion he wanted before
      deactivating the pin. Silencing spells were rotated with blasting
      curses until Sirius had made his own secret tunnel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius crawled into his new hole and reactivated the illusory
      pin behind him. He carefully finished his tunnel ending on the
      fifth step from the top. After ensuring the coast was clear, Sirius
      vanished the debris. He pushed a second illusory pin into the
      ground ten steps further down. After storing the image, Sirius
      deactivated the pin and moved to right in front of his new
      wand-crafted hole. Reactivating the pin, the hole disappeared and
      the wall looked similar but not flawless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius knew it'd have to do, as he cleaned the dust from his
      disillusioned form and took the long curving flight of stairs two
      at a time. He slowed down as he heard a voice in the distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A scream of pain alerted Sirius to the fact that this wasn't a
      friendly chat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You liked that, didn't you?" Lucius Malfoy grinned in sadistic
      glee. "They say that one feels like rusty knives cutting across
      your body. Is it true? Is that what it felt like?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius didn't notice any other Death Eaters, but kept his wand
      ready in his wrist holster. He quietly grabbed a shovel as he snuck
      up to Lucius and swung it with all his might.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius turned just in time to catch the shovel with his face.
      The blonde's nose was smashed flat and he was unconscious before he
      hit the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They say that one feels like a shovel to the face," Sirius said
      tossing the shovel onto the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nngh!" was the extent of the warning James Potter could shout
      in his condition.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was ready and dove out of the way of a purple hex and
      sent back two of his own. The Death Eater that had been in the
      room, rushed forward and took cover right next to the door
      frame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius didn't even hesitate as he sent a blasting curse into the
      wall by the door. The stone exploded the Death Eater into the open
      and covered him in rubble as Sirius nailed him in the face with a
      vicious stunner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anybody else?" Sirius asked, eyeing the blind corner
      warily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nnh," James replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius canceled the disillusionment on his cloak as he took in
      the full sight of the Assistant Director of the DMLE. James Potter
      was hurt pretty bad, hanging by his wrists, exposing his bruised
      and bloodied abdomen. He had a cut by his neck, and one eye swollen
      shut. Sirius sent a cutting curse at the chains and James fell to
      the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oww," he groaned at the sudden jolt on his injuries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Sirius said, not really sounding like it. He helped
      James remove the shackles and steadied the man as he struggled to
      his feet. James took a few tentative steps on his own while Sirius
      stunned the Death Eater again. "Damn. Broke his wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll use Malfoy's," James said as made his way over to the
      unconscious man. He accidentally kicked Lucius in the balls eight
      times as he stood up with the man's wand. He numbed most of his
      bruises and applied a little basic field healing. He attempted to
      stun Malfoy only to get the spell reflected back. "Shit," James
      swore as he ducked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Try the shovel," Sirius cheerfully suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James looked at the wand uncertainly. "You think he jinxed his
      wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Sirius admitted, "But you did heal yourself. And I do
      know that Lord Malfoy, in Malfoy Manor, wearing the Malfoy ring,
      has some protection from direct magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James looked over at Sirius and stared for a moment. "It really
      is you, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A thank you wouldn't be out of place," Sirius grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James took a couple of slow steps forward and offered his
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius thought it was kind of a goofy feminine gesture but shook
      hands. "Sirius Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Sirius Black," James said earnestly. "Now, how long
      until backup arrives? Are we waiting on a signal or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius forced a weak smile. "No signal, no backup. Just me. And
      we need to hurry before they notice us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just… you?" James clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "I'm not really feeling the love here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James was confused. "Why are you doing this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius huffed. "Lily promised herself to me. Now can we go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is not the time for your jokes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is the perfect time for my jokes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius groaned in discomfort as he slowly regained
      consciousness. "What… what happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had already picked up the shovel and swung it like a
      cricket bat, whomping Malfoy back into unconsciousness. "Did you
      see that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James nodded, noticing a lump forming on the top of Malfoy's
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent time for a joke, wouldn't you say?" Sirius scratched
      his chin. "Something like 'Heads up!' or 'Mal-<em class="calibre8">Fore</em>!' if
      you're uninspired. I, myself, lean towards the 'You forgot to duck,
      bitch' camp."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mosquito," James deadpanned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good one," Sirius encouraged. "I knew you had it in you. Now we
      really should get out of here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James frowned looking down on Lucius. "Can we take him with us?
      He's just going to disappear off the grid until he can buy his
      freedom again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "I can only side-along one. That's why
      you get a rescue team of one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I doubt I can transfigure him because of that damned
      ring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's right," Sirius remembered. "I forgot how good you are at
      transfiguration. I need a Norton's Brew and a willing subject to
      pull off human to inanimate. I suppose you could kill him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James seemed to be heavily considering the option.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Sirius said. "We just need to get that ring off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'll probably poison us if we try to remove it," James
      argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just saying you could kill him," Sirius reminded James of
      option one with a hopeful grin. "Or we could remove his
      finger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James shook his head. "Any cutting curse will bounce right
      off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius jerked his thumb over his shoulder. "Have you not seen
      how effective that shovel is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James looked over at the shovel and then Malfoy and then the
      shovel again. He figured they could delve into the ethics of
      apprehension by amputation once the blonde Death Eater was locked
      in a high-security cell. "A skilled healer could easily reattach
      the finger…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless we were to lose it," Sirius suggested. "It'd be a shame
      to get splinched because we had to carry an extra finger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James twitched in amusement. "Okay, let's do this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius used a gloved hand to roll up all of Malfoy's non-ring
      fingers, while James got the shovel and positioned it right at the
      knuckle. Sirius took a step back but couldn't tear his eyes from
      the sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James took a deep breath and jammed the shovel down forcefully.
      There was an audible click sound and the singular severed digit
      popped about a meter up into the air before clattering on the
      floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius woke up suddenly screaming in pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius immediately cast a silencing charm on the hurting Lord
      Malfoy and cheered at the success of the spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James saw Lucius was going to try and crawl away. He took two
      steps towards him and swatted him viciously on the ear with the
      shovel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius buckled back to the ground unconscious again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, James?" Sirius pointed out. "You could've just stunned him
      now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," James agreed. "But I didn't want to let you have all
      the fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius guffawed at the unexpected response. "You severed his
      finger. I doubt I got all the fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James was looking away, hiding his smile. He wrapped the
      unattached ring finger in a piece of cloth and stuffed it into
      Malfoy's pocket. With a grunt of forcing the magic through an
      unfamiliar wand, James transfigured the unconscious Death Eater
      into a plain red coin. He slid the coin into his pocket and nodded
      at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had taken off his chameleon cloak and was offering it to
      James.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," James said accepting the cloak, unused to this kinder,
      gentler Lord Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to stay hidden if we can," Sirius explained as he
      tapped his head and the disillusionment charm trickled down him and
      his dragon-hide robes. "You stink a lot more than me, so you need
      the cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James activated the disillusionment charm on the cloak and took
      the lead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on," Sirius whispered harshly. "You don't know where we're
      going, so you follow me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's only one direction," James pointed out, not yet ready
      to defer to Sirius' judgment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if you even touched that door up there, you'd get blasted
      into the wall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm the auror here, right?" James
      argued as the pair had been walking up the steps side by side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the damaged victim who's been tortured for the past few
      hours," Sirius scolded trying to stay in the lead. "Don't overexert
      yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shh!" James snapped as he stopped suddenly. "Do you hear
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius paused and listened closer. "Someone's coming! There's a
      room just ahead. Quick!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James tried to run as softly as he could, cursing the sounds of
      his feet, and wishing he had charmed silent boots like Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius yanked James off the side, and pulled them both into a
      musty old cupboard. They cast silencing charms at the same time and
      shushed each other. They heard the footsteps getting louder when a
      voice spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was already screaming when I saw him this morning, my Lord.
      He's probably broken by now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not underestimate the Potters," a powerful voice hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James and Sirius stared at each other in shock suddenly
      realizing the Dark Lord Voldemort could catch them hiding in a
      broom closet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James' eyes hardened and he pulled his wand arm up. "It's
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius grabbed onto James' hand and held him back. "Yes, it's
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can kill him now," James snarled looking to Sirius for
      help.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you fucking insane?" Sirius whispered angrily. "We cannot
      kill him now. Trust me. All we could do is piss him off. And you
      need medical attention already."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He killed my son!" James snapped loudly, pushing the two
      silencing charms to their limits. He deflated into a broken man as
      he softly added, "And he killed my best friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius felt more twisted inside than he had since Azkaban.
      Hearing a James Potter echoing the same pain he'd gone through was
      just confusing. "There's nothing we can do. Not right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You fought him," James argued petulantly. "What are you so
      worried about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't fight him," Sirius corrected. "Harry fought him. I
      don't care if you're Albus fucking Dumbledore, I'm not going head
      to head with Voldemort unless Harry's got my back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the one always acting so superior-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the point," Sirius interrupted. "<em class="calibre8">Acting</em>.
      Pureblood politics bollocks is mainly about who can cheat the most
      in a dick-measuring contest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James had a flash of his Hogwarts days and another Sirius Black
      making an eerily similar statement. "Are you scared of him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not scared," Sirius retorted as he slowly opened the creaky
      cupboard door. "I just have a healthy amount of respect for his
      ability to squash people like me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James couldn't help it. He snorted and started to laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius whipped around and shushed him. "We don't have time for
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James wondered aloud, "When did you start acting
      responsibly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius scowled and retorted softly, "Probably about the time
      your sense of humor came back from sabbatical."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James smiled at the barb and urged Sirius forward. "Come
      on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An ear-piercing shriek echoed from down the bottom of the
      steps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Run!" Sirius instructed and he began to sprint up the steps as
      fast as he could. A Death Eater was blasted in the face before he
      even realized he was under attack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James cast a pair of exploding curses on the stairs behind them,
      making it more difficult to follow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't use the door!" Sirius shouted as he saw they were nearly
      at the top. "Follow me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius fell to his knees and finally located the illusory pin,
      deactivating it with a touch of his wand. Sirius stuffed the pin in
      his pocket, canceled his disillusionment charm, and crawled through
      his homemade tunnel. He stopped and made sure James was right
      behind him. "As soon as we get out from under these Dark Mark
      targeted wards, I can apparate us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James nodded, knowing this was a time to follow, not lead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius deactivated the last pin and crawled out of the hole. He
      shoved it in his pocket as he stood up and discovered he was in a
      room with more than two dozen masked Death Eaters staring his way.
      Thinking quickly, Sirius said, "What do you guys think of my
      disguise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When it appeared they weren't going to curse him immediately, he
      added, "Aren't I just the spitting image of the good looking Lord
      Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naw, you look like the tall one," a Death Eater pointed out.
      "The good looking one has those hypnotic eyes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few other Death Eaters turned towards the vocal member
      curiously. "Smith? Is there something you'd like to tell us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right then, a clearly bruised and dust covered disillusioned
      James Potter stood up behind Sirius, unable to see past him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get him!" three men shouted as they all started cursing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had already grabbed James by the arm and apparated them
      away before the first spell arrived.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Sarah considered herself a fair witch. Both of her parents
      were above average in power, and while it's true her little brother
      started beating her regularly in duels last year, she knew she was
      far from a helpless-with-a-wand, trophy witch. When the first two
      Death Eaters approached she managed to stun them both and run away.
      She'd cursed several others, leading them on a frantic chase before
      a table got blasted into her ankle and she was boxed in.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">She admitted to feeling hopeless as they activated their
      portkeys only to have her prayers answered as the portkeys remained
      inert. She sprung into action in their confusion and took great
      pleasure kneeing one of them in the crotch. She'd made her way
      further into the back, shouting for help again after losing her
      wand for the second time. These were the actions of a fairly
      competent witch, she assured herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even still, getting yanked around like a rag doll by Harry could
      give anyone inadequacy issues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had flinched when the two nearest Death Eaters slammed into
      the wall with a loud crunch. She barely noticed the beauty of the
      Fidelius cage crumbling, as the sound of two more necks breaking
      echoed around the room. She felt the tension in the room thicken as
      dozens of curses flew straight towards them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She knew she'd be too late in getting a shield up, but she
      needn't have bothered as the body of a Death Eater was thrust into
      the path of the spells. A sudden mist of blood coated the right
      side of her face and she felt things were getting too close for
      comfort. A glance at Harry showed him completely unaffected and
      what she would've sworn was a smile flitted across his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She began to think Harry might be crazy, but was forced to admit
      he was commanding magic on a level she'd never match.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I beat your Master in open air," Harry snarled, playing up
      their fear of him. "You really expect to take me in close
      quarters?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah was about to suggest less taunting when she felt something
      like an invisible snake wrapping around her midsection. She barely
      realized what was happening when she was thrust up to the ceiling.
      Her arms were mashed against Harry's back as they zipped from one
      corner of the room to the next, essentially ignoring gravity's
      protestations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bones were breaking, curses were flying, chunks of the wall and
      floor exploded sending dust and shrapnel everywhere. Sarah's eyes
      could barely keep up with carnage raining down when she and Harry
      landed on their feet at the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry began to stalk down the hallway, enjoying every step as
      the Death Eaters kept backing up, frightened of getting too
      close.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah saw the destruction left in their wake. Blood was
      everywhere. The other door was hidden behind a pile of bodies and
      wreckage. There weren't even any patches of wall that had made it
      through unscathed. She remembered Harry's suggestion when she
      recognized how many were groaning in pain, and shrieking about
      misplaced body parts. She fumbled with her wand to stun them when
      she was again jerked to the side and a searing orange spell whizzed
      past her collapsing the back wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah began to worry as she had lost her wand, and Harry
      appeared fully focused on the Death Eaters in front of them. Her
      wand came floating out from under a piece of the collapsed ceiling
      and it just hovered there waiting for her to grab it. That small
      gesture proved to her just how in control of the situation Harry
      was. She quickly drew on his presence and nearness as a source of
      comfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah proceeded to stun all the still breathing Death Eaters,
      while keeping her other hand on Harry's back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She saw Harry down another pepper-up potion while the Death
      Eaters just watched them fearfully from the other end of the
      hallway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You okay?" Harry asked softly out the corner of his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," she said as she moved closer to him, pressing her body
      up to his back. "Let's get out of here, please."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sounds good to me," Harry said, wrapping an invisible arm
      around Sarah and magically tethering her to his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She caught on to what Harry wanted and wrapped her arms around
      his stomach. She felt Harry rock back on to his heels before
      launching the pair of them like a torpedo down the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Drywall, plaster, chunks of stone and wood were exploding from
      the floor and walls. A shield in front of them deflected the only
      spells that came their way. Death Eaters were crushed and crumpled
      as Harry and Sarah span through the air with the force of a
      locomotive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The half dozen or so remaining Death Eaters who could still
      manage it were sprinting through Madam Puddifoot's dining area and
      out the front door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go on! Run away you pussies!" Harry shouted happily as he and
      Sarah flipped up and back to their feet. Harry grinned as he saw
      Death Eaters hustling down the street. "I think seeing them run
      away may be even better than beating them up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah started to relax as she picked pieces of debris from her
      hair. She saw the flicker of a disillusionment charm a second too
      late. "Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Avada Kedavra</em>!" Two separate voices shouted from
      opposite sides of the dining room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A pair of magical arms yanked Sarah down and out of the path of
      a killing curse just as Harry turned in time to see the other
      sickly green spell line up with his heart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah gasped when she saw the two spells had sandwiched Harry in
      and he was unable to dodge. She could only gape in disbelief as the
      moment they were about to connect, Harry's body faded out of view
      into a ghostly incorporeal form. The curses zipped harmlessly
      through his body leaving only faint trails of smoke as they
      passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two Death Eaters' faces froze permanently in shock as the
      errant spells slammed into each others' unprotected and
      disillusioned bodies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had never been more thankful for his animagus form than at
      that moment, and he gave the room a belated but thorough
      evaluation. Satisfied with his search, Harry closed his eyes and
      forcefully willed his body back into solid form. A gentle pop told
      him he'd succeeded for the first time and he opened his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He offered a hand to help a wide-eyed Sarah up. "I'd appreciate
      it if you didn't mention that last part to anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked over at the two lifeless bodies and then Harry
      incredulously. "Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked with Sarah out the front door just as the roof
      caved in destroying the last of the dining area. "Oops," Harry said
      with a little too much glee. "You okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah just nodded mutely, staying close to Harry. The two of
      them were leaning on each other for support.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled as they walked by a pair of aurors fighting to
      put out a magical fire. He could feel the adrenaline leaving his
      body as the danger had passed. "They were disillusioned and fired
      killing curses directly across from each other. Not the brightest
      bulbs in the bunch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was pretty stupid," Sarah agreed as she let Harry lead
      them over to the next building.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He retrieved his anchor stone and canceled the portkey and
      apparition wards. He spotted Tonks running towards them and
      apparently his body decided that was its signal to shut down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sarah!" Tonks shouted hugging the young woman she used to
      babysit. "You're okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fine," Sarah said trying to ignore the unknown wet purple
      pieces of Death Eater in her hair. "Harry came and…" She trailed
      off when she noticed Harry was laying face first on the ground.
      "Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hurriedly checked him over and concluded he was healthy
      enough just severely exhausted, a common reaction to multiple doses
      of pepper-up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The headmaster is about to bring down the wards," Tonks
      informed. "Think you get Sleeping Booty to the hospital wing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah nodded. "Yeah, but you might want to secure the Death
      Eaters back there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many'd you two get?" Tonks asked with a grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah shrugged. "Not really sure. Maybe thirty?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a lot of paperwork," Tonks gulped before spotting a
      junior auror. "Hey Perkins! Go secure the Death Eaters in Madam
      Puddifoot's! I'm escorting these two to Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sarah chuckled at Tonks' look of innocence. "Escorting us,
      eh?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks waved her wand and began to levitate the snoring Lord
      Black. "You know sleepyhead back there was trying to convince me he
      understood women? Please. If it weren't for you, I doubt he'd ever
      have gotten out of there alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me about it," Sarah agreed walking in step with Tonks. "I
      must have stunned at least a dozen of them."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>It only took one sniff for Harry to determine where he was.
      The cushioned bed, the starched sheets, the oppressive sense of
      being smothered, and the smell all told him one thing: he was in
      the Hogwarts hospital wing.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">A pounding headache reminded him that he'd exhausted himself, so
      he asked, "Hello?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm here, Harry," Sirius' voice soothed as he watched Harry
      crack open his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got a potion for you, Lord Black," Madame Pomfrey's less
      than warm voice stated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry accepted the sludge and realized this woman didn't know
      him at all. He quickly knocked it back, grimacing at the texture
      more than the taste. He accepted the glass of water and tried to
      wash the taste from his mouth. "What happened when I was out? Why
      did I need to come here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You exhausted nearly all of your magical reserves," Poppy
      Pomfrey chided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So?" Harry asked blinking in the brightness of the room. "I do
      that all the time. And do you have anything for my headache?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Poppy harrumphed. "Pepper-up potions are not candy, Lord Black.
      There's a reason you are supposed to wait six hours before even
      considering taking a second one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't you do something for my headache before you lecture me?"
      Harry pleaded. "If you want any of your words to get through, it'll
      have to be after this throbbing goes away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You earned that headache and you're going to keep it or you'll
      never learn," Poppy scolded as she retreated back towards her
      office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks for pissing off my boss, Harry," Sarah humorlessly
      cheered from the other side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry slowly began to look around the room and became aware
      everyone was staring at him. Jimmy was smiling, sitting on the edge
      of a bed next to Sirius. Tonks was grinning at him, as was Lord
      Peter Potter and Albus Dumbledore. On Harry's other side Sarah
      stood, while James Potter lay in the bed behind. Lily Potter was
      clutching her husband's hand tightly, but looked like a coil
      waiting to spring a hug on Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She lunged forward and squeezed him, profusely thanking and
      praising him for saving her little girl.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was still feeling more than a little out of it as he
      hugged her back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lily, let the poor man breath," James chided as he sat up.
      "Thank you, Lord Black. If ever you need anything-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peter took the opportunity to interrupt. "Yes, Lord Black and
      Lord Black? The House of Potter is indebted to both of you
      individually and to the House of Black-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop, stop," Harry jumped in. "Really. It was nothing. All I
      want is a little quiet and for this damn headache to go away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"POTTER!" the deafening shout came from down the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry clenched his eyes shut and was rubbing his temples at the
      sound of Severus Snape bursting into the hospital wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know it was you, Potter!" Severus shrieked over the sudden
      loss of his hair. "You're even more arrogant than your father!
      Repeating the same immature, childish pranks—<em class="calibre8">Are you even
      listening</em>? I'm talking to you, Potter!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Jimmy just paled, trying not to laugh at the shine on the top of
      his Potions Professor's head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I'm fucking listening, <em class="calibre8">Snivellus</em>," Harry spat
      out. "That snot-filled wheezing you call breathing is like acid to
      my ears." Harry pinched the bridge of his nose as the throbbing
      seemed to increase. He slowly caught on to the oppressive silence
      hanging in the air and looked up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, Harry?" Jimmy warily interjected. "I think he was talking
      to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw varying degrees of confusion and shock staring back at
      him, aside from Albus and Sirius who were both twittering in barely
      restrained amusement. "Oh… bugger."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
