<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER FOUR, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: For those wondering, I've
      not seen Elfen Lied but it's not a horrible comparison for how
      Harry's magical arms can act. Started to watch an episode and
      quickly realized it wasn't the sort of thing for me. Additionally,
      I reckon I should credit ChuckDaTruck for sharing the 'half your
      age, plus seven' rule, but I don't think he made it up himself
      either. And for those wondering, this fic will be similar in style
      to Browncoat, in that some chapters will be much funnier than
      others as it's about the story I'm telling more than simply getting
      as many laughs as possible. That's why this chapter may not be as
      funny as the last one, but more along the lines of amusing and
      hopefully interesting. All reviews are always welcome and
      appreciated.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"A halfbreed! A mudblood! A bad Master!" Kreacher shrieked
      excitedly. "Oh good Master! You even brought your own dead
      muggle-lover!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kreacher," Harry snapped trying to shake the elf loose. "Stop
      humping my leg. That's an order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm so sorry, Master," Kreacher pleaded. "Kreacher will do
      better. Do you want Kreacher to put away your things?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You rotten little crap-bubble," Sirius chuckled at the insane
      elf. "We're not his <em class="calibre8">things</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kreacher looked confused and turned towards Harry. "Master?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They aren't my things," Harry instructed still uncertain how he
      felt like dealing with Kreacher. "Remus and Tonks are friends and
      guests. Sirius is not the same Sirius you used to know. And Ginny…
      well I guess she is my very own dead muggle-lover."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny's cheeks brightened in a ghostly blush and whispered
      towards Tonks, "Harry said I'm his lover. He's so cute when he's
      possessive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is kinda cute," Tonks admitted conspiratorially.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny glanced between Tonks and Harry. She leaned in towards
      Tonks, "You know now that you're not married to your dad, you could
      morph to look like me and go out with my Harry. I'd be fine with
      that." Ginny was doing a fair impression of Dobby, she was nodding
      so fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks saw Ginny was a little too enthusiastic at the idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't mind," Ginny explained. "I could even help you with
      all the bits and parts that you can't see. Stupid ghost robes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe later," Tonks said silently adding 'or never.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks noticed how dust covered the kitchen and back entrance
      were. "Hey Harry, you mind if I go exploring?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Knock yourself out," Harry said waving towards the entry hall
      and living room. As Tonks left the room, Harry whispered to the two
      Marauders, "I'm curious if the troll leg umbrella stand is in this
      dimension."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A loud crash and clang indicating the Auror tripped was followed
      by a shout of "Son of a-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks' yell was interrupted by a familiar screeching voice.
      "Mudblood! Filthy mudblood whore!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Guess so," Harry grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Home sweet home," Sirius exclaimed with a wistful smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A warmer welcome you'd be hard-pressed to find," Remus
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up, you bloody hag!" Tonks yelled from the front hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're going to die, you filthy mudblood whore!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You hear that Moony?" Sirius said with a playful elbow. "You're
      the proud father of a filthy mudblood whore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bad Master?" Kreacher questioned curiously at this new attitude
      from his other Master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not a Sirius Black you've ever met before," Sirius
      explained to the little elf as he walked out of the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius reached into the entryway and spotted the offending
      portrait. "Hello <em class="calibre8">mother</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The portrait stopped her incessant shrieking at Tonks and looked
      at Sirius in wonder. "Can it be… <em class="calibre8">Sirius</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius, as in your dead son who secretly pledged himself to the
      Dark Lord and has only just now been reborn under the Dark Lord's
      awesome power?" Sirius offered seeing the hopeful smile on his
      painted mother's face. He chuckled happily, "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs. Black huffed. "You clearly have the disappointment's
      attitude."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's the pet name every child wishes their mum would call
      them," Sirius retorted with a sigh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry followed behind his godfather and added, "For what it's
      worth, one time she called me the disappointment's
      disappointment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs. Black frowned. "When did I…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't," Sirius said dismissing the confused portrait. He
      looked towards Harry inquisitively. "I hope you responded in kind
      to my dear old mum's portrait."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "I did piss on her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius couldn't help it and burst out laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In my defense I was drunk at the time. She didn't bother me too
      much after that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius tapped his chin in thought. "I wonder if Dad knew it was
      that easy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Old Master knew," Kreacher answered immediately. "Old Master
      did it quite-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kreacher!" the portrait hissed indignantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mistress?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry interjected. "We really didn't need to know
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you like to punish Kreacher?" the elf asked
      hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry answered without pause. "But I would like to see
      this place cleaned up some. You are capable of cleaning, aren't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes Master," Kreacher cheered enthusiastically. "I shined
      and polished all the muggle torturing tools. Even put fresh
      batteries in some of the muggle ones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Tonks perked up curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Down girl," Sirius jumped in. "Not in front of your father this
      close to his time of the mo-" Sirius let out a squeak and turned to
      run as Tonks and Remus both attempted to curse him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you work on cleaning the rest of this place,
      Kreacher, starting with the kitchen," Harry stated firmly. He saw
      the confusion on the elf's face and added, "Think of this entire
      house as one big muggle torturing device."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Master," Kreacher accepted happily and popped away to begin
      scrubbing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked over towards the fireplace and stuck his head under
      the hearth. "You guys know if this is connected to the floo
      network?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doubt it," Tonks answered. "No one's used it in twenty-five
      years, so even if the monthly upkeep is covered, it's still cycled
      far enough out of use that you'll probably need to get it
      reconnected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should definitely get it reconnected," Sirius answered
      showing his face now that Remus and Tonks had given up chasing him.
      "But let's set it to default deny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know," Harry suggested. "I can put up a Fidelius charm for
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can cast a Fidelius?" Remus asked, slightly impressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "It's one of the charms I've gotten quite good
      at."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd rather not a Fidelius, if it's all the same to you," Sirius
      said. "We can ward it plenty, but we're not exactly prime targets
      of the Dark Lord here. And I'd like to be able to bring home a
      muggle without dealing with too many questions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Couldn't you just memory charm them?" Harry asked, pulling the
      curtain across Mrs. Black's portrait before she could start up a
      rant about muggles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd rather not," Sirius explained with a grimace. "Something
      about bringing home a girl and ending the evening—or morning more
      likely—with a memory charm just feels a little like rape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't rape her, I hope."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, of course not, it's just… it still just feels wrong. A
      violation of her rights or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're weird," Harry decided. "But even if you don't want a
      Fidelius charm, I still want to pick up some blank anchor
      stones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have much money," Sirius began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have <em class="calibre8">any</em> money," Remus corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes and that's not much now is it?" Sirius agreed. "So maybe we
      should hold off on the big magical purchases."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Umm, if this dimension is anything like our old one," Harry
      stated. "They only cost about forty galleons for a set of eight and
      two discs. I've got that covered and it'd make me feel a lot
      better. I'd settle for four and one disc, if you're that worried
      about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's your money," Sirius said not understanding how anchor
      stones made Harry feel better. "If we're lucky there might be a set
      in the family vault."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know I'm the old man around here," Remus said. "But it is
      almost four in the morning and I've got to be up for work in three
      hours. You sure you want to stay here tonight?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "We'll be fine. Get your beauty sleep, grampa.
      You look like you could use it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus smiled seeing how much happier Sirius was now that Harry
      was here. "You guys are welcome to make breakfast at my place, but
      please don't steal everything from my kitchen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I'm gonna head out too," Tonks said walking down the
      stairs. "This place is pretty big, which means you guys got a lot
      of cleaning to do and I need to make myself scarce. I wouldn't mind
      digging into some of those books in the—<em class="calibre8">Dammit!</em>" Tonks
      cursed as she once again tripped over the troll leg umbrella
      stand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whore!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Painting!" Tonks yelled back at the portrait thoroughly
      confusing it. Tonks snickered seeing the curtain had flung open and
      Mrs. Black looked befuddled. "I'll catch up with you guys tomorrow
      night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was chuckling after Tonks was gone, leaving the two
      dimension travelers alone. "She still trips over that thing every
      time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was laughing just as much. "You know it's cursed,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Sirius looked at Harry in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yeah," Harry snickered. "That umbrella stand is jinxed to
      trip her up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Sirius said doubtfully. "Really?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I think it was something one of your cousins or
      maybe mother did to Andy, and Tonks inherited it from her mum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh I bet Tonks was pissed when she found that out," Sirius said
      thinking of all the times she'd tripped over it throughout the
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who said Tonks ever found that out?"</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Mr. Black," the old goblin grumbled as he looked up from his
      desk. "I hope you're not here to waste more of my time."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not at all, Elder Rahdoh, not at all," Sirius said with a grin.
      "I've even brought my very own ancient Lord with me this time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed?" the goblin said leaning over to look at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius greeted. "I'd like you to meet Elder Rahdoh the
      Moderately Sane, the Director of Ancient Family Affairs and
      occasional amateur singer. Elder Rahdoh," Sirius turned and
      introduced. "I'd like you to meet my godson, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The goblin saw the young man wave meekly and turned towards
      Sirius. "Mr. Black? You failed to recall that you had a godson who
      was an ancient Lord?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't find him until just yesterday and only then found
      out that he was an ancient Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The goblin tilted his head down and was peering over his glasses
      at Harry. "And just what family are you the head of?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't have to know that," Sirius jumped in before Harry
      could answer. "Do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose not," Elder Rahdoh agreed. "But for your sake I hope
      the magic accepts him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a problem," Sirius nodded immediately. "Magic is Harry's
      bitch. We just need you to take us there and invoke a test of
      nobility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey Sirius," Harry blurted out. "You can't expect to pass
      any test of nobility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ironic isn't it?" Sirius grinned. "It used to be accepted that
      it was a test of the bloodline or purity but people from other
      families have been designated heirs, even muggle-borns, so they
      renamed it nobility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Elder Rahdoh pressed a button and spoke some Gobbledegook into a
      magical intercom. A perfectly clear voice said something in
      Gobbledegook back and Elder Rahdoh sighed. "Well, let's get this
      over with so I can get back to work. I figure this will either work
      or you shall die. Come along."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the smile on Sirius' face falter for a second as they
      got up and followed the old goblin out of his office and down
      towards a cart. The three of them fit into a single cart and they
      began the fast and bumpy ride down the track.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wind was rushing in their ears, but Harry's curiosity got
      the better of him. "Elder Rahdoh, you said this will either work or
      he'll die. Do you have a preference which?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Elder Rahdoh kept his hand on the lever and turned towards Harry
      and Sirius. "Well, there's a lot more paperwork if he dies," the
      goblin smiled wickedly. "But on the other hand, I wouldn't have to
      worry about seeing him again. So each side has its advantages and
      disadvantages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The blunt honesty of goblins always amused Harry, almost as much
      as the overwhelming enthusiasm of house elves. He chuckled at
      Sirius' frown and Elder Rahdoh's complete indifference to them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few minutes later the cart slowed to a stop in front of a very
      different looking vault than Harry had ever seen. It appeared to
      look more like a cave with a solid, smooth block of onyx for a
      door. Two goblins were waiting on either side of the door, one of
      them leaning against the wall in irritation. Two large spikes had
      been crudely slammed into the ground in front of the goblins.
      Topping the obviously magical staffs were small chambers of
      constructed metal and clear glass resembling lanterns. Inside each
      chamber was a glowing ball of magic that arced within its confined
      space.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not have all day," Elder Rahdoh grumbled urging them to
      hurry up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius instructed. "You've got to stick your Family
      ring in the lower corner of that square on the wall. <em class="calibre8">Don't</em>
      stick it in the center."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why shouldn't I stick it in the center?" Harry asked walking
      over towards the carved wall that had etchings indicating where to
      place his fist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The goblins exchanged curious looks, beginning to think they may
      get to watch an ignorant wizard or two die today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw them all visibly perk up and explained, "The center
      is for the Black family ring and it will simply open the vault. The
      bottom right is where acceptable ancient families can nominate
      others after the family goes headless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged and pushed the ring onto the spot. "If you say
      so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The vault suddenly became active and the two spikes in the
      ground began flaring up and sparking like crazy. Currents of magic
      were bouncing back and forth between the two magical conduits while
      the inky black onyx of the door rippled into a blurry clear
      haze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took a breath and walked right through the magical
      current and his body began to glow and flicker on its own. He
      didn't even slow down as he walked straight through the solid wall
      and into the Black family vault.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned towards the goblins all watching curiously. "Am I
      supposed to leave my hand up here?" When no goblin answered, Harry
      sighed and propped his arm up holding it in place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius walked straight into the vault and saw everything was
      obscured from view other than a small pedestal with a ring box on
      it. He strolled right up to it and opened the box. "Yes!" Sirius
      cheered when he discovered there was still a Black family ring.
      Without hesitation, Sirius removed the ring from the box and
      slipped it over his finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was watching the other goblins when his ring let out a
      flash of white light that reflected off the wall. "Whoa!" Harry
      exclaimed holding his arm still in place. "The magic's asking me
      for permission. What do you think, boys? Should I make him sweat it
      out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Elder Rahdoh had looked up at the flash of light and replied.
      "I've never heard of the sponsor being questioned. This isn't
      right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay. This actually kind of makes sense." Harry explained
      before playfully yelling loudly, "Should I or shouldn't I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit Harry!" Sirius yelled out from inside the vault. "If I
      die, I'm going to haunt you and be even more annoying than-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry encouraged the Black family magic to accept Sirius and
      effectively shut Sirius up as the ring molded to his finger,
      confirming him as the new Lord Black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius came skipping out of the vault and stopped just before
      crossing through the magical current again. "We're good!" he
      exclaimed, proudly showing off his new ring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finally," Harry said dropping his arm from where he was holding
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as he did, the door to the vault rippled and became solid
      black. The two spikes of magic fizzled down to the beginning
      levels, and the two silent goblins wiggled them free from the
      ground in disappointment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stuck his ring in the center of the square and much to the
      shock of the goblins the door slid straight open revealing the
      contents inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cool," Harry agreed pulling his hand away. He stuck it right
      back again and this time the vault door slid shut with a heavy
      clang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me try," Sirius called out placing his ring where Harry's
      had been. As expected the door slid open again. "That's
      brilliant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two goblins carrying the magical spikes walked away into the
      darkness of the tunnels, while Elder Rahdoh sat back in the cart to
      wait on the two still living wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius strolled over to a small chest and found it about a
      quarter full. "Nice. We got about… eight hundred galleons here or
      so. Give me your money pouch. I'll fill 'er up a bit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's take a couple hundred galleons each," Harry stated
      tossing his pouch to Sirius. "That should be enough for some
      clothes and food and other immediate necessities." He was looking
      through an old box of parchments. "Hey! Did you know we got a seat
      on the Wizengamot? And the Hogwarts Board of Governors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was stuffing handfuls of galleons into both his and
      Harry's pouches. "Yeah, I remember something about that. Don't
      remember who it was that was using them, but they're probably not
      exactly in line with our ideologies. Go ahead and grab whatever you
      got that looks interesting. We've got a day of shopping ahead of
      us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two Lord Blacks packed up everything they felt like taking
      and walked out of the vault. Harry put his fist over the center of
      the square and the vault door slammed down, sealing shut. They
      hopped into the cart and Elder Rahdoh began the journey back to the
      surface.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you are Lord Black," Elder Rahdoh said looking at
      Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup." Sirius said bobbing his head up and down, resisting the
      inner urge to stick his head off the side of the cart and let his
      tongue hang out as they flew down the track.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The goblin turned to Harry. "And you are…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled and answered, "Lord Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Elder Rahdoh just sighed and went back to looking forward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does this happen often?" Harry asked curiously at the lack of
      surprise from the goblin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Elder Rahdoh shook his head. "I don't think it's ever happened
      before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't you curious?" Sirius asked with a mischievous grin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will it prevent me from having to do double the paperwork I now
      must?" Elder Rahdoh retorted at the two stupidly grinning wizards.
      He turned back to face forward as they remained silent. "I thought
      not."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Why are you buying a bottomless bag? I've got my satchel,"
      Harry said patting his man's purse.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well that's yours," Sirius said. "We both need a lot of stuff
      and I don't want to get our things mixed up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do I have cooties?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want my own, okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not just charm a bag rather than paying the extra for a
      magical one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know <em class="calibre8">how</em> to charm a bag to be bottomless?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth to answer when Sirius interrupted him and
      clarified. "I'm not talking space expansion charms that just make
      little things bigger, but the proper ones where everything is easy
      to reach, cushioned, and protected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Buy your bag, you big baby," Harry grumbled. "Let's hit
      Ollivanders next though. I want to pick up this dimension's version
      of my wand if it's there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded and got in line for the cashier.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll wait for you outside," Harry stated, stepping out to look
      at the noon day sun. He was quietly watching the people walk by,
      completely oblivious to the nonchalant way a wizard was sneaking up
      behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't even identify the whispered word but the moment
      the spell washed over him, he immediately knew the word the man had
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Imperio</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was scolding himself for not having been more vigilant or
      aware of his surroundings. His magic was jumped and ready to
      attack, but he didn't want to waste the energy it would take to
      snap the hold of the <em class="calibre8">Imperius Curse</em> blindly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His confidence never wavered knowing with certainty that he
      could overpower the will of the caster. It just was immensely
      easier to do when you're actually given a suggestion or command
      that you could respond negatively to. So far the man behind Harry
      had only cast the spell and was waiting for something else to
      happen before giving instructions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw people continue on their way, completely oblivious to
      his predicament.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After two and half very slow-moving minutes through which Harry
      kept reconsidering just expending his energy and snapping the
      spell, Sirius finally exited the shop. He walked over towards
      Harry, glancing briefly at the man standing just behind Harry
      facing away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So when Ginny went away, is she just invisible and around us?
      Or does she actually go somewhere else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just stood there pointedly ignoring Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" Sirius repeated. "Are you even listening to me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Harry had hoped, the caster of the <em class="calibre8">Imperius
      Curse</em> mentally ordered Harry, 'Tell him to go away.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'That was a mistake,' Harry mentally sent right back, snapping
      the hold of the curse instantaneously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard suddenly turned to Harry, who was spinning around to
      get a better look at his attacker. Before the man had even managed
      to fully draw his wand from his sleeve, both of his arms were
      jerked out to the side and his wrists were bent back snapping
      loudly as they broke. He yelled out in pain and Harry quickly cast
      a silencing spell over the wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had drawn his wand and saw two other men apparate away
      immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was pleased to see how quickly Sirius reacted and
      petrified the silently screaming man. "Sirius, can you call the
      Aurors to come arrest this man for casting an Unforgivable on me?"
      Harry levitated him up and down an alley. "I'm going to get him out
      of sight so as not to disturb the people shopping."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just watched Harry calmly follow the man around the
      corner and ran back into the shop he'd left moments ago. They let
      him use the floo to call the Department of Magical Law Enforcement
      who were going to be sending some Aurors within the minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry led the man away and pushed him up against the wall. He
      spun him around and ripped the sleeve off of the man's robes and
      shirt, exposing the Dark Mark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man was in shock, pain, and was terrified, feeling helpless
      with two broken wrists. Harry didn't seem to have even needed any
      effort to hold him in place, snap his bones, and reveal the Dark
      Lord's symbol. He could see the power in Harry's eyes and didn't
      even realize that his thoughts were running beyond his control.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry held eye contact and attempted to <em class="calibre8">Legilimens</em> the
      wizard. He found the man's name was Gordon Smith and that he was
      going to use Harry to destroy the post office. Two other Death
      Eaters were there with the same instructions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Smith discovered what Harry was doing and expelled him from his
      mind, demonstrating an average talent at best for the mind
      arts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed and stunned the man, "You're supposed to pick
      someone at random, and you picked me. That's bloody hilarious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius called out as he jogged down the small alley
      between buildings. "Alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and saw two uniformed aurors following behind
      Sirius, looking alert as they took in the situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Auror Billings, this is Auror Anderson," the man said,
      introducing himself and the female partner with him. "You say a
      dark wizard cast an Unforgivable on you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know him well enough to call him a dark wizard, but he
      cast the <em class="calibre8">Imperius</em> on me about five minutes ago," Harry
      explained and handed Billings the wand that Smith had dropped.
      "Pretty sure it's the last spell he got off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Billings accepted the wand and checked it using <em class="calibre8">Prior
      Incantato</em>. As indicated the last spell was an <em class="calibre8">Imperius
      Curse</em> and the ghostly effect matched Harry's appearance
      indicating he was the target.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Both of his wrists are badly broken," Anderson stated,
      inspecting the downed wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Billings could see the Dark Mark clearly on the man's arm and so
      far had no reason to doubt Harry's story. "Care to explain his
      wrists?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't want him to attack me again. I have no idea how
      proficient that man may be at wandless magic and I didn't know if
      he had any portkeys with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you broke his wrists?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there a preferred response to being subjected to an
      Unforgivable?" Harry retorted looking at Auror Billings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahh Harry?" Sirius jumped in. "As Lord Black, I know you're
      always allowed to defend yourself in kind. So a clear attempt on
      your life like an Unforgivable, means you could kill him perfectly
      legally."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think I should kill him?" Harry asked glancing back at the
      unconscious wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since he's stunned, it might be hard to convince the two Auror
      witnesses that you were defending yourself," Sirius felt like the
      obvious needed to be stated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Harry and Sirius both said turning to the Auror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn," Billings cursed. "I've got to call my boss in on
      anything involving the head of an old family." Billings cast a
      couple of spells on a small card he kept in his pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a mediwitch coming to deal with the suspect," Anderson
      explained. "Would you like her to check you out first, Lord
      Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Naw, I'm good," Sirius said knowing she wasn't asking him.
      "What about you, Lord Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People are really this anal over the pureblood and Lord crap?"
      Harry asked looking at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "Might as well use it to our advantage, <em class="calibre8">Lord
      Black</em>. Now are you sure, you're okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm fine," Harry said nodding towards the confused Auror
      Anderson. Harry saw Sirius looking at him expectantly, waiting to
      be addressed. Harry shook his head. "I'm not going to call you
      'Lord Black.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have to," Sirius argued back. "I've got the ring and
      everything."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, so you're Lord Black?" Anderson said, addressing
      Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We both are," Harry added. "Though I've got more experience at
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Somehow, I'm not surprised to see you here," a new voice jumped
      into the conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did his best not to stare at the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius bit his lip, not having expected this. "Nice to see you
      too, Assistant Director Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Black," James Potter greeted tightly. "Unable to stay out
      of trouble, I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could tell Sirius was uncomfortable and jumped in, "If
      you're here in an official capacity, I believe Lord Black may be
      more applicable than Mr. Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius resisted the desire to cheer out loud and point in James'
      face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Potter turned towards Harry and was obviously sizing him
      up. He didn't seem to recognize Harry or have any idea why he felt
      so familiar. "And who might you be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm another Lord Black," Harry answered more calmly than he
      felt. "And I don't believe we've met."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James was not amused. "Which one of you is the real Lord
      Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We both are," Sirius explained showing him his family ring
      while Harry made his visible and waggled his fingers at the
      Assistant Director.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lovely," James mumbled making no effort to hide his sigh. "How
      is this possible?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why is this relevant?" Sirius retorted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to need to explain how there are two Lord Blacks in
      my report on this incident," James argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You really don't like us, do you?" Harry bluntly asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't believe the fact that you happened to have been born in
      a certain family means the rules should be different for you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What rules exactly are so different? A clearly marked Death
      Eater cast an Unforgivable on me. Should I not have defended
      myself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My apologies, Lord Black," James said the name dripping with
      false sincerity. "Now if you're going to refuse to share with me
      just how there are two Lord Blacks, can you at least explain
      exactly what happened here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could see Sirius was very irritated with confronting
      bizarro Prongs, and proceeded to once again recount the details,
      beginning with feeling the curse wash over him and waiting until he
      was issued a command. He glossed over some parts indicating he
      simply used magic to restrain the wizard and break his wrists, not
      offering anything specific like the lack of spells required.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Anderson left with the injured wizard and mediwitch while
      James and Auror Billings continued asking Harry and Sirius question
      after question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we ever going to get our shopping done," Sirius
      mumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course Lord Black," James said giving Sirius a condescending
      look. "I'm sorry the Department of Magical Law Enforcement consumed
      so much of your time. We will most likely contact both of you for
      the trial, and it's possible you will be required to testify."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come on, Harry," Sirius said beginning to walk away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned towards them noticing James' eyes had widened
      slightly at his name. "We're done, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James quickly composed himself and nodded. "Yes, we're done." He
      turned from them without even saying goodbye and apparated
      away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Billings nodded at Harry and followed after his boss with
      a soft pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think we can make it to Ollivanders without you causing
      another scene?" Sirius muttered in irritation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head and fell into step with Sirius. "Boy you
      really don't like him, do you?" Harry said echoing his earlier
      comment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You couldn't tell what a pillock he's become?" Sirius snapped
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged adding, "I'd never met him before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius paused realizing just what that statement meant and
      looked back at Harry cautiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For Merlin's sake, Sirius," Harry grumbled hurrying towards the
      wandmaker's shop. "Don't waste the whole day pouting like a Malfoy.
      Your face might get stuck like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not pouting," Sirius pouted. "So what did you think?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think… I think you're being a little unfair to him," Harry
      answered opening the door for Sirius to lead the way in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever," Sirius grumbled. "All I know is the James Potter he
      was twenty-five years ago would be horrified at what he's turned
      into."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome," Ollivander greeted coming out from the back. "Lord
      Black and… Lord Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you do that?" Sirius said always getting a bit weirded
      out by Ollivander.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're wearing the rings, Sirius," Harry pointed out dispelling
      some of the old wandmaker's mystique. "And you need to remember
      that twenty-five years ago he lost his son and best friend, another
      best friend stabbed him in the back, and the last remaining
      Marauder was forced to grow up and be responsible for his new eight
      year old daughter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Sirius grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned and addressed the slightly confused older man. "We
      could use a couple wands, holsters, and some polish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which hand is your-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Harry and Sirius both answered in unison lifting their
      right arms up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Creepy," Ollivander whispered softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ignored the idea that he was creepy to Ollivander and
      added, "I was looking for perhaps a phoenix feather wand in Holly,
      maybe eleven inches or so. Got anything like that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know it is not the wizard who chooses the-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, yeah," Harry nodded. "Call it a hunch that a wand like
      that will choose this wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ollivander harrumphed not particularly liking the lack of
      respect he was receiving, and unable to unravel the mystery of
      these two Lord Blacks. "That is an unusual combination, but I do
      happen to have a wand fitting that description." Ollivander turned
      and went into the back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Sirius. "I'm not saying James should be our best
      friend, but considering what he's been through I guess losing his
      sense of humor isn't surprising."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is most disconcerting," Ollivander stated returning from
      the back. "But I'm sorry to say I do not have the wand you
      seek."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No?" Harry asked curiously. "Did you sell it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ollivander shook his head. "I doubt it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The wand is not where I last recall it being, but I haven't
      thought about it in many years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you lose it?" Sirius asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not lose wands, Lord Black," Ollivander stated with
      certainty. "I suspect I was the unwilling recipient of a memory
      charm. Had you not asked for that exact combination, I may never
      have thought about that wand again. Factoring this in, it is
      possible I did <em class="calibre8">sell</em> the wand, but I doubt it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want some help seeing if there's a block that can be
      removed or a charm broken?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No thank you, Lord Black," Ollivander stated turning down the
      offer of help. "If there's anything recoverable I should be able to
      locate it myself. Now, was there anything else I could do for
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I'd still like to purchase whatever wand you have
      that best suits me," Harry answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same here," Sirius said pointing towards himself. "For what
      it's worth, my last wand was twelve inches, driftwood, with a
      dragon heartstring."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Curious," Ollivander whispered inspecting Sirius closer. "That
      is the exact same wand Sirius Black used to have. What did you say
      your name was again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius Black," he answered happily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just a coincidence, I'm sure," Harry added with a firm nod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Ollivander said giving Harry a long look. "So says
      the <em class="calibre8">other</em> Lord Black who was inquiring about the brother
      to the Dark Lord's wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Harry said slapping his leg in surprise. "I didn't know
      that. Small world, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ollivander harrumphed and began going through the many wands he
      had in stock. For the next hour he kept handing new wands to Sirius
      and Harry to try, all with varying degrees of failure and on
      occasion slight success. The process continued until Harry felt a
      strong connection with a wand he tried out. Not as nice as his
      proper wand, but far more compatible than any others he'd waved
      that day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius found it hilarious that big, bad Harry was now the proud
      owner of a dainty little nine inch ash wand with a unicorn hair
      from a particularly vain male unicorn's mane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' amusement lasted about ten minutes, until an 8 and a
      quarter inch wand made of driftwood and unicorn tail hair produced
      some musical, pink sparks when he swished it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not a word, Harry. Not one word," Sirius warned as he paid for
      his wand and holster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was just smiling widely staying silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ollivander was under no such threat and explained, "Your
      connection produced very rich, though high-pitched tones. That wand
      should be exceptional at delicate work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry made no effort to hide his snort. He glanced at Sirius and
      turned to Ollivander, "Is my wand not so suited to…
      <em class="calibre8">delicate</em> work?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," Sirius said warningly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ollivander shook his head and explained, "Your combination is
      less precise but capable of channeling more magic easily."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I didn't get any pretty sounding delicate tinkling bells,"
      Harry said with a straight face, pointedly not looking towards
      Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Lord Black, you didn't," Ollivander said while completely
      aware of how Sirius was taking the reminders. "It takes a special
      person and special circumstances to get any sort of positive
      response other than sparks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's get out of here," Sirius grumbled already halfway out the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In case you need a reminder," Harry said to Ollivander. "You
      have a memory charm on you. And if you find anything out and feel
      up to sharing, I'm interested in what happened to that wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good day, Lord Black," Ollivander nodded as Harry chased to
      catch up with the once again pouting Sirius.</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"Shopping sucks Slytherin's balls," Sirius grumbled into his
      drink.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hear that," Harry agreed munching on his fish and chips. "I
      don't know why I thought Hedwig might be in this dimension waiting
      for me to buy her. I'm going to miss that mothering little
      bird."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "I think the owls we got are going to be
      fantastic. I can't believe no one had bought Smokey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your owl has gas," Harry reminded. "I'm not sure there's a lot
      of demand in the market for owls with digestive difficulties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're just jealous," Sirius said haughtily. "And where did you
      come up with that name for your new owl?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He picked his own name," Harry said. "I was just making up
      names until he responded to one. And if he says his name is Kid
      Killer McGee, who are we to say it isn't?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kid Killer McGee," Sirius repeated. "That's almost a better
      name than Smokey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It <em class="calibre8">is</em> a better name. We got some clothes, owls, wands,
      personal things, a little bit of food," Harry recounted. "Next we
      should get a clearer idea of what we already have at Grimmauld
      Place before we work on redecorating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Remember I'd like it to pass for a muggle place on the surface
      so that we can entertain guests from all walks of life. Confine the
      obviously magical stuff to a few rooms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll have to do something about the portrait of your mother
      then," Harry said finishing the last of his food.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you ever figure out a way to remove her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Never tried too hard. Didn't really need
      to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oddly enough it was Dudley who provided the simple and often
      overlooked solution."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dudley?" Sirius exclaimed. "I wouldn't think you'd want to have
      anything to do with the Dursleys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "Yeah well, Dudley gave the constables my name
      when he got arrested one time, and I was intrigued enough to bail
      him out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What'd he do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He went streaking with some of his mates at a West Ham match,"
      Harry grimaced. "He was the ham."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shuddered having remembered what Dudley looked like in
      Harry's third year. "So what did Dudley do to my dear sweet Mum?
      Punch a hole through her or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Nope. He just moved a book case in front
      of her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Sirius said anticlimactically. "I guess that would solve
      the problem, wouldn't it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know where we're meeting Tonks and Moony?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "It's a muggle bar about a block from where
      Tonks' apartment is. Decent place with some friendly regulars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood up and vanished his garbage. "Let's go unload our
      spoils and change into muggle outfits." Harry saw Sirius was still
      sitting there with a frown on his face. "What is it now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sighed. "Just seeing you use your proper wand makes me
      want mine that much more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's nothing wrong with your new wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care about that," Sirius retorted. "Well not too much.
      It's just, as good as this wand feels compared to the others I've
      used, I can still tell it's not as perfect a match as my proper
      wand is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened to your original wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Unspeakables said my clothes were destroyed and there
      wasn't one with me when I came out the veil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about in this dimension? Do you know where that one
      is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded while chewing on the inside of his cheek.
      "Yup."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same place it's been for a quarter of a century, Godric's
      Hollow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahh," Harry said in understanding. "And you couldn't get it
      back unless you made your peace with bizzaro Prongs, and convinced
      him of the truth of who you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose if you wanted to do things the hard way," Sirius
      explained as his face split into a bright grin. "But personally, I
      think it's going to be much easier to simply steal it."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
