<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER FIVE, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: I don't expect future
      chapters to take as long to finish as this one, but feel free to
      remind me to update quicker if you like.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So now you're both Lord Black?" Tonks asked in between
      sips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup!" Sirius and Harry cheered in unison.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's going to get so fucking old."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Sirius whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's next? You're not joking, you're Sirius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was probably thinking it," Harry agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I suppose you shaved this morning, but you're already
      Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stretched his waistband out and peeked down the front of
      his pants. "What if I'm seriously hairy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus cringed swallowing the beer in his mouth. "Can't we have
      one evening without your kibble or bits coming up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't even pause before asking, "Does half mast
      count?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus groaned while Tonks muttered, "As if one of them wasn't
      bad enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey there's actually two of everyone to keep straight from our
      point of view," Harry argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Remus recalled. "How're you doing with that? Because
      Sirius still likes to break down sniveling like a little baby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One time!" Sirius insisted. "One time a bug flies in my
      eye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A bug no one could ever locate," Tonks added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It must have flown away," Harry mockingly suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Sirius agreed. "That's exactly what it did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Although come to think of it," Harry said scratching his chin.
      "I think it flew back <em class="calibre8">in</em> your eye when I found you
      yesterday. Pesky reappearing bug."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bugger off," Sirius grumbled with a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus sighed in the silence that followed and looked at Harry.
      "We're doing our best not to encourage those sorts of puns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By ignoring him though, he takes it as a challenge and will try
      to come up with worse puns," Harry pointed at Sirius. "See? Even
      right now, his warped little mind is searching for something that
      will provoke the right reaction. Something about the bee in your
      bonnet? The bug stops here? No ifs, ands, or bugs about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oooh, good one," Sirius grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For <em class="calibre8">crying</em> out loud," Tonks jumped in, emphasizing her
      own addition to the pun-fest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not you too," Remus groaned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could say that was accidental," Tonks smiled. "Bug I
      won't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nudged Harry. "Maybe you could teach Moony a buggle
      repelling charm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is why," Harry addressed Remus while pointing at Sirius.
      "This is why you have to rub his nose in it, right away. It's the
      only thing that works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus was intrigued. "And just how would you rub his nose into a
      pile of bad puns?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius wondered. "How would you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "For something like this? I'd say just pinch him
      anytime he makes a pun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oww!" Sirius yelped and clutched his ear. "That's not
      funny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks grinned and pinched Sirius too when he was looking at
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oww!" Sirius yelped again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Remus said while considering the efficacy of this
      plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius jumped up from his seat. "Dammit Harry! Leave my bum
      alone. It's too pretty for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry grinned unrepentantly. "Thought I saw a bug
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius growled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was just trying to get a little revenge for you," Tonks
      sweetly argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before you somehow manage to lower the level of maturity in
      this conversation any further," Remus interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure that's possible," Tonks said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shut up you fatherfucking traitor," Sirius snapped before
      slapping the back of his pinched neck. "Oww! Dammit Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He took that as challenge," Harry demonstrated. "But now
      pinched and mollified, he's uncertain. He wants to curse me, but
      the potential of being pinched again is holding him back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just narrowed his eyes at Harry. "<em class="calibre8">He</em> knows where
      you live. <em class="calibre8">He</em> knows where you sleep. And <em class="calibre8">he</em> is a
      Marauder."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Marauder name just doesn't carry as much weight as it used
      to," Harry commented warily noticing Remus looked as indignant as
      Sirius. "But that reminds me, what happened to Wormtail here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are we talking about Death Eaters again?" Tonks whined.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry," Harry shrugged. "Still trying to catch up with this
      dimension. We can talk about something else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's alive," Sirius said answering Harry's question. "A wanted
      Death Eater and the Aurors know his animagus form."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Harry nodded. "So what are some more pleasant
      topics of discussion? Chudley Cannons still blow unicorn
      balls?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Juicy ones," Tonks added. "But they've already won more games
      this year than last."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many have they won this year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One," Remus answered. "By forfeit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some things stay the same," Harry commented noticing Sirius was
      staring at an attractive brunette at the bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Remus saw Sirius wasn't even paying much attention.
      "Those brave few fighting the effects of evolution we can always
      count on. Right, Padfoot?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Sirius agreed absently before turning back towards the
      table. "Wait, what did I just agree to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A duel," Tonks answered. "The three of us against you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, that's not a bad idea," Sirius cheered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not you three against me," Sirius corrected. "I was thinking
      you two against the Lords Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahh," Remus paused and glanced at Harry. "You killed your
      Voldemort, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's not happening," Tonks answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just a friendly duel," Sirius argued. "You can even start with
      Harry's wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," Harry complained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've got another," Sirius muttered out the corner of his
      mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No duels, no Voldemort, no Death Eaters, no Quidditch," Remus
      interjected. "I want to get to know you, Harry. I never had the
      chance here. What do you do for fun? What are some of your
      hobbies?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I like Quidditch, but you already said no to that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you play?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not professionally, but I like to think that I could make a pro
      squad. Unfortunately, I dislike people too much to play for a
      crowd."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You hate people?" Tonks asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only in large groups," Harry clarified. "Specifically, large
      groups who told stories about me before I even knew magic was real.
      And seem to think the death of my parents was some sort of fairy
      tale happy ending."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They told stories?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Ginny forced her dad to tell it every night when
      she was five."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was when I was four!" The ghost suddenly appeared and
      argued. "And it was only every night for about six months."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jumped to block her from view, harshly scolding. "Ginny!
      Get the hell out of here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" Ginny frowned, having just appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry peeked over his shoulder and whispered angrily, "Because
      this is a muggle bar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I won't drink much," Ginny offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! Go away!" Harry whispered forcefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Umm… Harry?" Tonks interrupted. "You know muggles can't see
      ghosts, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snapped his head towards Tonks. "Ix-nay on the
      uggles-may."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They can't?" Ginny shrieked. "All this time, you've-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Shh</em>," Harry hushed. "But they can certainly hear them,
      so shush!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let her stay," Sirius urged. "The muggles can't see her, and
      she'll stay quiet, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny nodded with a grin at Sirius, keeping her lips sealed and
      silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Need I remind you," Harry argued, "that while Sirius and I may
      have been dead for twenty-five years, there is another living
      breathing one of her walking around right now? She's a lot more
      likely to be recognized than either of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think in a <em class="calibre8">muggle</em> bar we should be pretty safe,"
      Tonks said with a roll of her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, so you like Quidditch," Remus said redirecting the
      conversation back on track. "What else do you do for fun? Or do you
      have a job?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No job. I've had a fair amount in the bank from my folks and an
      award from the Ministry. I think they retroactively put a bounty on
      Voldemort to buy some good press, but," Harry shrugged. "It was
      free money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much they pay for something like that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fifty thousand galleons," Harry answered. "They knew I'd turn
      it down, so they also awarded all the DA members a thousand
      galleons each, if I happily accepted the award at a ceremony."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd just refuse fifty large like that?" Tonks asked
      curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius rolled his eyes. "I could've told you that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course now," Harry answered, "in a new world where I don't
      have any savings, I don't think I'd endeavor to be quite so noble
      if someone were to offer me free money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So no job, likes Quidditch," Remus summarized. "Any hobbies?
      Maybe a special girl in your life?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ghostly Ginny harrumphed loudly, staring at Remus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Present company excluded," Remus added at Harry's exasperated
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Harry answered. "No special girl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not a…" Sirius paused unsure if he should voice the last
      word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at his godfather curiously before realization
      dawned on him and he blurted out, "No! No, nothing like that. I
      mean I <em class="calibre8">have</em> done it before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Sirius asked in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Harry nodded. "Lots of times. That was when I first
      realized if I was angry enough I could will Ginny away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't want to watch that!" Ginny shrilled. "And yes, Sirius,
      <em class="calibre8">many</em> times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Sirius said shaking his head. "I never would have pegged
      you for that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at Tonks and Remus who were both looking at Harry
      appraisingly. "So you expected me to be a twenty-five year old
      virgin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Sirius asked in confusion. "What are you talking
      about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weren't you asking me whether I was a virgin?" Harry said, and
      glanced over seeing Ginny nodding with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Sirius said with a bark of laughter. "I was asking if you
      were gay. And apparently your answer is no but you <em class="calibre8">have</em>
      done it before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Many times," Tonks helpfully added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No special girl," Remus grinned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "Sorry Moony. I don't swing that way no matter
      how well kept your moustache is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are other straight men with moustaches, I'll have you
      know," Remus tiredly pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So in answer to your question," Harry said turning to Sirius.
      "Nope. I'm not. Never have been."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well there was-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny, shut it," Harry warned pointing his finger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It counts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want me to banish you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dennis apologized, or should I say <em class="calibre8">Denise</em> apologized?"
      Ginny stopped at the look on Harry's face and hurriedly floated
      over to hide behind Sirius. "I'll be quiet now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed and looked at the other three brightly smiling
      faces. "Don't ask."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I picture it?" Sirius grinned happily. His grin faltered
      when Harry narrowed his eyes and Sirius felt a sudden painful poke.
      "Oww! My eye! Dammit Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know, come to think of it," Harry continued ignoring
      Sirius' angry muttering. "Since we're staying, the history of that
      world is like a figment of our imagination with very little
      relevance here. So I think it's my turn to learn about this
      world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Sirius agreed. "What do you want to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm guessing Death Eaters are going to be unavoidable, but you
      mentioned something about Neville Longbottom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Chosen One," Tonks agreed. "After you were killed, the
      Order quickly moved to hide the Longbottoms away. It was known for
      years that the Dark Lord wanted to kill Neville Longbottom.
      Considering, he'd gone out of his way to murder one baby born in
      late July of 1980, and was trying to kill the other, the story and
      prophecy eventually became common knowledge."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I take it Neville's not still in hiding?" Harry asked,
      hoping to avoid any uncomfortable questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus winced. "It was early summer of '87 when the contents of
      the prophecy became public. Knowing there was a savior in the form
      of a six year old growing boy, a lot of people wanted to help him.
      Whereas before he only had very limited contact with the wizarding
      world, that year he was inundated with birthday gifts: lots of
      weapons, cloaks, armors, books, that sort of thing. People assumed
      he was the next Dumbledore and when he was ready, he'd lead the
      fight to destroy Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can empathize with the pressure," Harry wryly added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thing is, no one knows what happened to him," Tonks continued.
      "March 21, 1988 he disappeared. Completely. No trace of him. No
      sign of his existence. Not even an indication whether he's dead.
      Just… gone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one's seen nor heard from him since he was seven?" Harry
      clarified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Remus sadly answered as he took a drink of his beer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing confirmed," Tonks corrected. "But there are plenty of
      unconfirmed accounts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unconfirmed?" Harry asked askance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About a year after Neville disappeared, a wizard dressed in
      black, stood up to the Dark Lord and stopped him," Tonks explained.
      "Ever since then, it's been like Voldemort is on the defensive. Our
      spies say he's had several major plans fall apart before the Order
      even heard about them. Not quite as extreme as the way your first
      war ended, but before Neville's disappearance and after is like the
      difference between a war and a skirmish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It does seem sort of… cautiously relaxed around here," Harry
      added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A lot of people believe Neville got some special training and
      has been protecting us," Tonks continued. "They say he is waiting
      until he can defeat Voldemort before returning to his family. I'm
      not sure about that, but a lot of people have seen a wizard in
      black fighting off Death Eaters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As an eight year old?" Harry repeated, making sure he
      understood. "Do you believe that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus was hesitant but answered, "It's one of the nicer things
      to believe in, when the other options usually include Neville's
      death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If he's really the Chosen One," Tonks pointed out. "I mean what
      was the point of that prophecy for the downfall of the Dark Lord,
      if it got you killed and Neville killed too before anyone was
      marked, right? Neville being alive was the only possible option for
      it… well, until you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Sirius said slapping a hand over Tonks' mouth. "We
      discussed this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Tonks grumbled. "We swore the damn oath not to tell
      anyone, didn't we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a guess about this. "What's going on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius never even considered keeping this from Harry. "In case
      it's escaped your notice, Harry, these two Lupins are members of
      the Order. And the knowledge that a Voldemort killer and
      prophecy-approved person is in this dimension might be kinda
      relevant to the Order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Harry nodded. "I pretty much assumed that was
      unavoidable when we decided to stay here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I'm not ready to give up the hope that it's avoidable,"
      Sirius insisted. "I made these two swear oaths to not divulge any
      secrets about your past."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really?" Harry said grinning brightly and earning small smiles
      from Remus and Tonks in return. "You guys would cover for me like
      that? You don't even know me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you well enough," Sirius retorted. "And they've gotten
      to know me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks shrugged. "It sounds like Voldemort was a lot worse in
      your dimension than here. He'd never dream of strolling down
      Hogsmeade openly murdering children."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus nodded. "You're the son of a James Potter. I'll protect
      you even if it's from Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does he know about you?" Harry asked looking at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius waffled in his answer, finally saying, "Yeah I think he
      does. He never outright said anything, and he was trying to trap me
      in couple of questions, but he asked me to join the Order and I
      declined. He could certainly tell I wasn't the same Sirius he
      remembered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks smiled at Harry. "So we're keeping quiet about you, but
      back to the discussion. With you here now, I'm a bit less likely to
      believe Neville's alive, but before you, the answer was definitely
      yes, I believed Neville was the mysterious black wizard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've seen weirder things than an eight year old powerful
      wizard," Harry figured.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know we're going to come up in the next Order meeting,"
      Sirius said gesturing at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are?" Remus asked curiously. "I thought Harry managed to
      arrive without raising any red flags?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was before this afternoon though," Sirius added. "When
      Harry managed to thwart a Death Eater attack, requiring the
      Assistant Director of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement to
      come to the scene and take our statements."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You met James?" Remus asked. "How was he? And, also, umm… Death
      Eater attack?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was a prat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was fine," Harry said giving his godfather a scolding look.
      "He was professional, though I'm not sure if he was staring because
      he was suspicious of me, or because he thought I looked
      familiar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you the stuffy Head of Family that tossed off the
      <em class="calibre8">Imperius Curse</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stuffy?" Harry repeated indignantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks grinned. "I didn't connect that 'til just now. Yeah,
      Potter called you stuffy. You put him in a pretty grumpy mood all
      day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go Harry," Sirius cheered quietly while letting his eyes drift
      towards the brunette seated at the bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not stuffy," Harry grumbled. "He's a judgmental
      pillock."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, that reminds me," Sirius suddenly asked, doing his best to
      act innocent. "The day after tomorrow's the second Friday of the
      month?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Remus slowly agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And don't the midget Potters go to the Order meetings too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you ask?" Remus warningly replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No reason," Sirius grinned and winked at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmm," Remus scoffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those meetings always last a good hour and a half, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius," Remus warned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not what you think, so relax," Sirius argued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well then what is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius failed to come up with a quick response and faltered at
      the sight of the attractive brunette looking right at him. She was
      whispering something to her friend. "Who is that Tonks? She's
      talking to your friend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks turned towards the bar and spotted. "Melissa?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Melissa's the one you introduced me to, right?" Sirius
      clarified. "Who's her friend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks furrowed her brow. "Don't know." Tonks caught Melissa's
      eye and waved her over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Tonks," Melissa greeted calmly approaching the group of
      wizards. "Sirius, wasn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, Sirius, listen up," Melissa began. "Don't be obvious
      about looking, but you know the brunette I was sitting next to that
      you were eyeing like a piece of meat?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"34C, yup," Sirius answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lovely," Melissa grimaced. "That's wonderful. Because she got
      out of a long term relationship a little over a month ago and is
      now desperate for some unconditional sex. So I just need you to
      pretend that I've been subtly trying to figure out if you have
      any—Sirius, what are you doing? Don't get up. Don't go over… oh
      god."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius had jumped to his feet and was determined to be a good
      Samaritan, not even waiting for Melissa to explain the situation.
      There was an attractive woman desperate for sex, and that was all
      Sirius needed to know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Liz is going to kill me," Melissa mumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. "It sounds like locating sex was her first
      priority and <em class="calibre8">ding-ding-ding</em>, she struck gold."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gold?" Remus repeated doubtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, asbestos, anyway," Harry corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Melissa shook her head, not particularly wanting to know. "I
      don't believe we've met."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry about that," Tonks said in sudden realization. "Melissa,
      you may remember my dad, Remus, and this sweet young hunk of man is
      named Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you've made my godfather's night," Harry grinned in
      greeting. "Or Liz will soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Melissa smiled weakly, before turning straight towards the
      ghostly form of Ginny. "And you are?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny let out an <em class="calibre8">eep</em> of surprise. "You can see me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crikey, Melissa," Tonks said smacking her forehead. "I forgot
      that you're a squib."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Recalling Melissa's question, Ginny answered, "I'm Gin-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ginny!" Harry interrupted before he could stop himself. "That's
      Ginny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Melissa glanced between Harry and Ginny. "Is Ginny short for
      anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vaginny!" Harry answered immediately hoping his voice wouldn't
      crack. "It's short for Vaginny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Melissa looked at Harry oddly. "Not Virginia?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny huffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or Genevieve? Ginnifer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny harrumphed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope, she's our…" Harry paused and furrowed his brow.
      "Vaginny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius came running up to their table. "Melissa, it's been
      smashing seeing you again. Harry, you may want to stay on the other
      side of the manor tonight. Good evening ladies." Sirius finished
      without wasting a single breath and hurried towards the door of the
      bar where Liz was waiting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Melissa tried not to think about what that meant. "So Harry, is
      that <em class="calibre8">short</em>… for anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny scoffed at how unsubtle the squib was acting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not short," Harry grinned proudly. "Personally, I think
      Harry's plenty long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ginny turned and scoffed at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're as shameless as your godfather," Melissa playfully
      mocked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You never know," Harry countered. "I could be <em class="calibre8">far</em> more
      shameless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Melissa's eyes widened and she glanced at Tonks and Remus. She
      saw they were as amused as she was. "You're a wizard, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just grinned and winked at her, as a pair of his magical
      arms began to massage her shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh goodness," Melissa stumbled for a moment at how quickly she
      relaxed. She had to turn her head both ways to verify there wasn't
      anyone there. "Tonks, Remus, it was a pleasure seeing you again.
      Harry? I must admit, I'm a little worried about Liz. I think the
      best thing will be for you to take me back to your place." She
      closed her eyes and groaned softly at Harry's impromptu
      ministrations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think we'll catch up with you Lupins later," Harry stated as
      he got up and walked out with Melissa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't even tell when he cast magic," Remus finally
      admitted, trying not to think about how quickly they'd been
      ditched. "What was Harry doing to her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No idea," Tonks shook her head and bit her bottom lip. "But I
      think I'd like to find out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The words of a disturbed and fanatical portrait come to mind,"
      Remus groaned not wanting details of his adopted daughter's sex
      life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're one to talk, filthy half-breed," Tonks retorted and
      stuck her tongue out playfully. "What do you think they're gonna do
      at the Order meeting? Do they even know where we meet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Remus answered. "But I think for the sake of
      plausible deniability we're better off not knowing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks sighed. "Maybe, but I bet that's not as fun."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Harry slowly made his way down the stairs, still a little
      groggy getting up this early.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, Harry," Sirius boisterously greeted as he was
      inventorying the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not a morning person, are you?" Harry asked
      fearfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It all depends on the night before, now doesn't it?" Sirius
      cheerfully retorted. "I hope you weren't too upset that I ditched
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Certainly didn't seem it," Melissa smugly answered as she
      walked into the kitchen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw the look on Melissa's face, and glanced over at
      Harry, exorbitantly pleased with his godson. "Good morning,
      Melissa. I certainly didn't expect to see you so soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ugh," Melissa grimaced and looked to Harry helpfully. "He's a
      morning person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, I think he may still be drunk." Harry corrected
      looking around the kitchen. "I see Kreacher cleaned this place up.
      We got anything for breakfast around here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you mean food," Sirius said looking in the last pair of
      cabinets in the row, "then no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Melissa looked at Harry curiously. "What else would you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't ask," Harry shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd offer to run out and get something," Sirius shrugged. "But
      I don't really know my way around the neighborhood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just apparate somewhere in the alley," Harry suggested.
      "Wizarding restaurants can get your carry-out meals ready a lot
      faster than most muggle places."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius' eyes bulged. "Umm… Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw the worry on Sirius' face and glanced over at Melissa.
      He suddenly remembered with a wry smile. "That's right. You left
      too quickly last night before Melissa here spotted Ginny, and Tonks
      was kind enough to remind us that Melissa's a squib."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodding in understanding before asking, "Where is
      Ginny?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She went away," Harry succinctly answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Melissa shrugged. "I don't think she likes me much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I were to take a guess I'd bet it was probably more of a
      matter she didn't like what you were doing to Harry more than it
      was you personally," Sirius offhandedly remarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed having halfway expected something like that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Melissa clarified. "If you want to get technical, I think Harry
      was doing more things to me than I was doing-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Breakfast anyone?" Harry interrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Diego's okay?" Sirius asked looking at Harry and Melissa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and saw Melissa looked indifferent. "Make sure to
      get muggle food and we've gotta watch what we say around Liz."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who?" Sirius asked in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Merlin," Harry groaned while Melissa just goggled at Sirius.
      "That's her name, Sirius. Liz. 34C? Up in your room still?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh," Sirius said with a smile. "You learn something new every
      day. Alright, I'll be back with four breakfast platters. You might
      need to wake… umm, what was her-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Liz," Melissa angrily supplied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Liz," Sirius repeated with a lecherous grin leaving them to
      wonder if he was pretending to have forgotten her name just to
      irritate them. "You might want to wake her up. She went back to
      bed, after calling in to take the morning off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We got a phone?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "She's got a mobile. Speaking of, we
      should probably get one of those. I mean we just moved in, so not
      having a phone hooked up works for now. But it won't make much
      sense for too long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to wake Liz," Melissa stated as she left them alone
      in the kitchen. "She may be able to take the morning off, but I
      can't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched Melissa glance over her shoulder back at him and
      grinned to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius saw the extra sway Melissa was putting into her hips and
      the look she flashed at Harry. When she'd disappeared out of view,
      Sirius punched Harry playfully on the arm. "You dirty man-whore,
      you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like you're one to talk," Harry chided. "Liz who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sighed happily feeling like a part of his life was back
      in order. "Merlin, I missed you James." The moment the name tumbled
      from his mouth Sirius knew it was wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could only arch an eyebrow at the obvious slip of the
      tongue. He was highly amused and planned to poke fun at Sirius for
      this later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "Don't read too much into that. Okay,
      breakfast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just before Sirius could apparate away, Harry added. "And get
      some good juice. I don't want pumpkin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's wrong with pumpkin juice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It tastes like pumpkins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fine," Sirius grumbled. "I'll get some muggle juice,
      <em class="calibre8">Harry</em>."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>Remus and Tonks were sitting next to the four known members
      of the Potter family, James, Lily, James Jr., and Sarah. Tonks was
      having a whispered conversation with Sarah when the Headmaster
      stood up and addressed the Order.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome friends and allies," Albus began looking towards all
      those assembled. "It pleases me when we get together because it is
      convenient and not out of necessity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sturgis?" Albus inquired. "Would you like to start us off with
      some good news?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sturgis Podmore stood up and nodded at everyone. "Hagrid and I
      just got back from our annual visits with the giants. All four
      leaders of the biggest clans all said the same thing: they would
      have said no, if there even had been an inquiry from the Dark Lord.
      But there weren't any."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is good news," Albus agreed. "And of the lesser
      clans?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sturgis shrugged. "Vondal doubted any of them would support the
      Dark Lord. To do so may incur the wrath of the other giants who
      wish to stay neutral. He said it with a lot more grunts and perhaps
      a few shorter words, but that was the gist of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excellent," Albus said. "And Grawp?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Doin' great," Hagrid answered enthusiastically. "He's, eh,
      still datin' that strange Chang woman."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Love comes in many forms," Albus wisely added. "Emmeline? Have
      we heard back from the vampires?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Emmeline Vance answered. "I had the misfortune of a
      surprise visit last week. Nothing has changed in their neutrality
      and they still can't stop flirting like they're in the theatre. And
      I have one personal message I'm supposed to deliver."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emmeline turned to the side to address the man standing in the
      corner. "Julius said, 'Severus, stop writing. We're not going to
      turn you.'" She turned back towards the rest of the Order and
      finished. "That was it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus could sense the anger and humiliation in the Potions
      Master and quickly continued. "Thank you, Emmeline. Remus, have you
      heard anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus was holding in his laughter at the face Severus Snape was
      making and shook his head. "The only organized packs are all in
      Eastern Europe and they'd contact me before dealing with the Dark
      Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tonks?" Albus turned to the metamorphmagus. "I don't know what
      details of your new assignment are classified, but is there
      anything you would like to share?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks' eyes widened and she glanced over at James, who only
      shrugged in response. Tonks began, "Alright. Thing is, a few days
      ago some blonde bird showed up in the Department of Mysteries. The
      Unspeakables weren't even sure where she came from, but she was
      asking a lot of curious questions about Lucius Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone there was familiar with that name as the man had bought
      his freedom too many times to count.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James saw Tonks didn't want to give out too many details, and
      continued for her. "What's notable is that she stunned and
      obliviated three Unspeakables before escaping. And all we have to
      go on is a description of a young to middle-aged blonde woman, who
      bears a passing similarity to Narcissa Malfoy but more…
      veela-like."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks snorted at how large breasts consistently translated into
      veela-like. "So far she's not really committed any crimes that we
      know of other than assault on Ministry representatives when she
      escaped, but they got a lot of questions for her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Department of Mysteries specifically requested Tonks for
      this job," James continued. "Indicating she was uniquely qualified
      for it, and instructing us not to ask why that is. Any interest in
      voluntarily offering answers to questions I'm not going to
      ask?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks smiled and shook her head knowing the real reason was
      because she knew Sirius, a recent confirmed dimension traveler.
      "Sorry. It's a pretty cushy assignment and I don't want to mess it
      up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If there were any danger or relevant threat," Albus jumped in.
      "I have no doubt Miss Lupin would inform us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks nodded heartily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know James has a Death Eater attack to report on," Albus
      announced surprising many who hadn't even heard about one. "But was
      there anyone else with something they wished to discuss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mundungus Fletcher grunted and said, "I heard some talk about
      worries on the other side, rumors that the Black family didn't just
      have a new Head, but an actual Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are not just rumors," Albus answered, "But that ties into
      what James has to say. James?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James patted his confused son on the arm as he stood up. "A
      couple days ago, three Death Eaters were going to put civilians
      under the <em class="calibre8">Imperius Curse</em> and attempt to burn down the Post
      Office in Diagon Alley. The reason this is the first most of you
      have heard of this is because it was thwarted before it ever got
      going."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was it Neville?" A hopeful voice in the back called out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Potter resisted the urge to groan at people jumping to
      conclusions. "No, it was not Neville. Gordon Smith, a cousin from
      Austria of <em class="calibre8">that</em> Smith family, is a marked Death Eater now
      in custody. He put a young man under the <em class="calibre8">Imperius Curse</em> in
      preparation for the attack only for the wizard to break the curse
      and subdue Mr. Smith rather severely. The other two Death Eaters
      immediately apparated away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amos Diggory let out a low whistle. "Breaking an
      <em class="calibre8">Imperius</em> is no simple task. Sounds like he pissed off the
      wrong guy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Considering how things worked out, I'd say he pissed off the
      right one," James countered. He continued a little pompously, "I
      was called in because the young man was Lord Black. Now there were
      a few curious things about this, first being that with him was
      the…" He paused just before saying the name, "Sirius Black that a
      few of us have met."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus and Tonks were nodding, making no effort to hide that they
      knew all of this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I still don't understand, but have managed to ascertain
      from the goblins, is that they are both in fact, Lord Black. Sirius
      only received the title that morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As fascinating as this is," Severus butted in, making no effort
      to hide his disdain. "Do you have a point?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James frowned at the immature man's antics and proceed to ignore
      the interruption. "The other Lord Black, who I believe is named
      Harry-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks and Remus were both nodding affirmatively, surprising
      James as he continued. "He spoke of the <em class="calibre8">Imperius</em> with
      familiarity. Not necessarily implying he was proficient at casting
      it, but at the very least the effects of being subjected to it. And
      after snapping the Curse on him, rather than simply disarming
      Smith, he broke both of the man's wrists instantaneously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James saw he had their attention and added, "Without drawing his
      wand, saying a spell aloud, or even turning to face the Death
      Eater."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sweet," James Jr. said quietly earning a chuckle from
      Remus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When I interviewed him afterwards, he was as calm and arrogant
      as you'd expect an ancient Lord to be," James explained. "And after
      interrogating Smith, I got the feeling this Harry had some power to
      back-up his arrogance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is he a threat?" Arthur Weasley inquired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To Death Eaters it sounds like," Dung answered earning himself
      some chuckles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do we know about this Lord Black? Or the other one for
      that matter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus lifted a hand and answered, "I myself met with Sirius
      Black a few weeks ago as he bore such an uncanny resemblance to the
      one many of us remember."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus was unconsciously stroking his beard. "But the man I met
      with had eyes far more haunted than should be. They still sparkled
      with mirth but he has clearly lived through horrors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Unspeakables are notoriously tightlipped, but I managed to
      gather that they understood why his eyes seemed so… weathered.
      Given their attitude towards him, I surmised that they have no
      worries of him joining the Dark Lord. I perceived his attitude to
      be far more in line with the Sirius Black we remember than with
      some of the <em class="calibre8">other</em> members of the Black family. I believe
      Remus can tell us more. Remus?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus was expecting this and explained. "I'd consider both
      Sirius and Harry friends. I can assure you all there's no chance
      they'd ever join the Dark Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would they be interested in joining the Order?" Lily spoke up
      to ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was why I had approached Sirius to meet with him," Albus
      answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You approached him?" Moody snapped wondering what Albus was
      doing with so few precautions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded. "There's undoubtedly a reason the Unspeakables are
      involved with him at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What'd he say?" Lily asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus smiled sadly. "I got the feeling he was sick of fighting
      and seeing friends die. He was not particularly receptive despite
      lacking direction in his life. But I do not know about the other
      one, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks leaned back and grinned. "Something tells me whichever way
      one of those Lord Blacks goes, so goes the other."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"It's this way."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's this way!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you talking about? You've never even been here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can see the wards from here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Sirius said looking in the direction Harry was pointing.
      "Maybe it is that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes and sighed. "How did you talk me into
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Order meeting just started and we know this place is going
      to be empty for at least an hour. You've got Potter blood and
      should be able to open up the safe. Cheer up, Harry," Sirius
      grinned as he began the trek towards Number Three Godric's Hollow.
      "This will be fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how much ward-breaking experience do you have?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius paused for a moment before continuing. "Let's not quibble
      over the details."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped right in front of the first layer of wards next to
      Sirius. "This isn't asking for trouble at all, now is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aww come on," Sirius grinned. "It's not like Voldemort is going
      to show up and bounce a Killing Curse off your forehead,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed once more and was looking at all the layers of
      wards in front of them. "I'm going get you back for that, you
      know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright. Let's do this."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
