<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>A Black Comedy - A Black Comedy CHAPTER SIX, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="A Black Comedy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Disclaimer</strong>: I own nothing; it all belongs to
      J.K.Rowling. I'm just borrowing the characters to play with for a
      while. This is for pleasure only, no profit is being made, and no
      copyright infringement is intended.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note</strong>: I love reading each and
      every review. I don't always respond to all of them, but I do try
      and make an effort to answer any questions asked of me. So if you
      enjoyed a chapter, saw how it could be improved, wanted to point
      something out to me, had a question, or possibly find yourself
      extremely offended and upset, then make sure and let me know that
      in a scathing review. Thanks for all the feedback so far. It is
      appreciated.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now's your last chance to do the smart thing," Harry said
      taking a closer look at the wards in front of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm insulted you even have to ask."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry Padfoot," Harry said patting the man on the back. "I
      should know better than to accuse you of being smart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your mum and Moony used to try the same stuff, but I never gave
      in to their peer pressure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned at his godfather. "I see three different sets of
      wards. Any ideas on how you want to get around them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Killing Curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned towards Sirius scratching his head. "Let's try this
      again. Any ideas on how we can get past the wards <em class="calibre8">without
      setting them off</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright fine," Sirius grumbled and cast a spell over his eyes.
      "The first ward is line-based and it appears to be…
      muggle-repelling and a wizard detection, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was impressed and it showed on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know a thing or two," Sirius said pretending to be offended.
      "I wouldn't have suggested this if I didn't think we might pull it
      off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just surprised you even know the difference between a
      line-based ward and an area ward."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've cast a few different area wards over the Slytherin table
      and hallway in my day," Sirius explained while experimenting on the
      ward. "I'm stronger than Moony, and Prongs has always been a bit…
      accident prone. That's why back in the day, the bigger wards were
      almost all my work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Wormtail?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wormtail," Sirius bit the inside of his cheek. "He used to be a
      good lookout. Ah-ha! That's it. You took your potion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius focused on a simple fuzzy tennis ball and transfigured
      Harry, and all the things on his person, into the singular small
      inanimate object. With a pop he transformed into a large black dog.
      He picked up the tennis ball in his mouth and calmly walked across
      the first ward set protecting the Potters' home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He set the tennis ball down and with a pop transformed back into
      the healthy adult wizard. He sent the transfiguration reversal at
      the tennis ball, revealing a surprised Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was conscious through that," Harry exclaimed in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Sirius nodded. "Have you never used a Norton's
      Brew?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh they're great," Sirius explained. "I'm sure you know most of
      the common effects, but essentially it just makes your body far
      more receptive to magic. Spells cast on you are far more effective,
      especially if you're helping them along."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All spells?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "Just about. So be careful, pain spells are all
      magnified. With the boosted effect on you from the Norton's, as
      long as I'm casting it and I want you to keep your mind, if you're
      fully accepting the spell, then it leaves you conscious. We've used
      that for spying before, but you can't stay that way for too
      long."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So to get past the barrier ward, you turned me into an
      inanimate object and you into a dog. Neither effected by muggle
      repelling, nor detected as a wizard," Harry said, looking at the
      ward they had passed through. "You're not too bad at this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why don't you start pulling your weight and get us through the
      second one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fair enough," Harry grinned, stepping up to inspect the ward.
      It was much thicker than the first and Harry could see it was a
      compound ward. "Here goes nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry located the anchor stone and sent a feedback loop into two
      different parts of the ward. The visible domes of magic expanded
      and brightened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took a step back as everything brightened. "Did you just
      strengthen those?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I suppose I did, but this set is a compound ward. I was
      trying to separate the parts so we could identify them all and deal
      with them in smaller groups."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go Harry," Sirius grinned. "I think you know more about wards
      than I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Area wards for apparition and portkey," Harry announced. "It's
      possible we're keyed considering our counterparts but for now we're
      just going to ignore those. It's this barrier ward for dark magic
      that may be a problem." Harry dropped to a knee and took a deep
      breath. "In case, I get dizzy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sent a spell down a magical arm and into the anchor stone.
      A large dark purple box flared brightly revealing the walls went
      dozens of feet up capped by a ceiling at the top, but only a couple
      feet into the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood up and let out his breath. "Lovely. I bet it's for
      keeping out Death Eaters, but a lot of times my scar will set these
      types off."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Considering our intentions any sort of emotional detection
      could pick up on that too," Sirius mused. "Think we can overpower
      it enough to jump through?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but let's not," Harry said. "You see those dark wards in
      the inner set?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those are goblin wards," Harry explained. "All these others are
      just defensive and alert-oriented. Goblin wards are completely
      different, and most of the time very nasty. We're going to need our
      strength for overpowering those."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't get past them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know, that's the thing," Harry said with a shrug. "We
      could be able to safely walk past them without ever triggering, or
      we could walk through them and they choose to kill us in a very
      messy manner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Overpowering that one sounds good to me," Sirius said. "So how
      do we get past this purple one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It'd definitely detect magic so transfiguring ourselves won't
      work nor would the doggy side of you," Harry explained. "It's only
      a little bit into the ground, so how about a ward push?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "Never heard of it. Sounds good
      though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm basically just trying to lift the edge and we'll sneak in
      under it," Harry said summoning a couple of twigs. He cast a basic
      barrier ward tying its ends to the sticks. Using a pair of his
      magical arms, he was pushing his makeshift barrier ward up against
      the large purple walls.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius watched as it slowly rose out of the ground until the two
      sticks finally got directly underneath the wall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was sweating and pulling up the edge of the thick ward
      set. It was arching around the edges of his barrier, straining
      against the invading ward. "There," Harry whispered in between
      breaths. "That's as high as I'm going to push it. You've got to
      stay low."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius dropped to his knees and saw he'd still need to crouch to
      get under it. He turned back at Harry before crawling, "Are you
      gonna be okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "It's not magically tiring, just physically.
      Go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius hurried and crawled through. He stood up on the other
      side, looking through the translucent purple wall. He watched as
      Harry dropped to his knees and proceeded to crawl underneath while
      the ward set appeared to be getting heavier. Sirius grabbed a hold
      of his godson's arm and pulled him through and to his feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry accepted the help and let his simple barrier ward
      collapse, the two twigs falling to the ground lifelessly as the
      purple box flared angrily snapping back into position.
      "Thanks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When did you get so good at wards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Horcrux hunting," Harry explained as they walked towards the
      final inner set of wards bearing all the brown murky signs of
      goblin magic. "Voldemort put a fair amount of effort into
      protecting his little toys with lots of devious and dangerous
      traps. Hermione and I both were quick learners out of
      necessity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You hunted for his toys?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By toys, I was referring to the pieces of his soul that he'd
      split off, and whose continued existence meant for all intents and
      purposes he was immortal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh… <em class="calibre8">those</em> toys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Harry said. "Have you ever tried to flood a goblin
      ward?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me neither," Harry admitted. "And something tells me, it's
      going to be pretty tiring. Did you pack some pepper-up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I got one," Sirius said. "You going to need it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "I brought four of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Four! That'd kill you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably, yeah. I took three doses once over the course of
      about an hour and a half. Woke up eight days later with a muggle
      catheter in me. Madame Pomfrey was trying to discourage me from
      getting hurt so frequently. Needless to say, I'll never do that
      again. I brought two doses for each of us, in case you forgot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius checked his watch. "Twenty minutes. Forty left. How are
      we going to overpower this one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know how to share your power with me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "You've got the Norton's Brew in you though, so
      you gotta be careful you don't drain me completely dry. With the
      Norton's, you'll be able to sap unconsciously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and connected with the nearest goblin keystone.
      "Anytime."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius cast a pooling spell and felt Harry start to drain magic
      from him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was feeding as much as he could smoothly straight into the
      keystone. The wards were sharpening in focus and flashing white.
      "Alright, it's starting to flood it. We need to jump through during
      one of the white flashes. It may… feel funny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded and saw the flashes were steadily increasing and
      lasting longer each time the white appeared. He glanced over at
      Harry and received a nod in return.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The very next flash, Sirius lunged forward and hopped through
      the visible white energy barrier. His senses all flared and it felt
      as if he were being electrocuted for a split second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry jumped through on the very next flash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slowly Sirius felt his magic replenishing as Harry stopped
      drawing from him. He let the pooling spell dissipate and drank the
      pepper-up he'd brought with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry downed a vial after seeing Sirius drink his. "You
      alright?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "That wasn't too bad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's attention was drawn to the left side of the modest-sized
      cottage. "What's that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head. "No idea, but whatever's in there is
      warded pretty tightly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced back at the manor and then the glowing warded and
      obscured area. "Want to peek?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded and began to hike towards the wards at the edge of
      the woods. As he got closer he saw brown intermixed with yellow
      wards. "Those look like goblin wards from here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Harry agreed. "Looks like it's got some newer
      strengthening charms that get regular maintenance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We going to overpower this one too?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "We just need past the obscuring field so
      we can see what's in there. We don't have to actually cross the
      rest of the wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry located the anchor and felt his way around it, identifying
      the obscuring spell. He looped the connection back into itself and
      the obscured area darkened and shrunk slightly. "Whoops, wrong
      way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius just watched Harry staring down at the magical anchor
      stone. Harry flipped the two ends of the loop around and the
      obscuring ward lightened to a cool grey, expanding outward just a
      few inches more than the other wards anchored with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Careful you don't cross the other wards, but we can stick our
      heads through the first ward safely," Harry said before thrusting
      forward through the grey barrier. "Whoa."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius followed Harry's lead, and just leant his upper body
      through the ward. "Gulping gargoyles! What the hell happened
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blackened scorched ground that was still steaming surrounded a
      tree so dead and hollow, it looked like a skeleton. Dry branches
      snaked upwards, swirling counter-clockwise from the bone white
      barbed trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was staring at the ground just in front of the tree from
      which all this death seemed to spread. The wound on the ground was
      practically screaming ancient magic. Harry turned towards Sirius.
      "I think I might know what this is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shook his head, realizing he'd been entranced just
      looking at the decaying soil and tree. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think this may be where I died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius agreed only briefly before indignantly arguing, "Why's it
      gotta be where <em class="calibre8">you</em> died? Why couldn't it be like this
      because this is where I died?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry leaned back away from the ward and patted Sirius on the
      top of the head. "I suppose anything's possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were a baby and apparently <em class="calibre8">not</em> the one in the
      prophecy," Sirius argued, sticking his head back in the ward to
      look at the small piece of desolation. "This is obviously the death
      of a far more promising and powerful young man, who fought back
      valiantly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh really? No ancient archways of death you could've tripped
      and fallen into around here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd better hope not," Sirius joked back. "You've tripped and
      fallen into just as many."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seen enough?" Harry asked pointing towards the warded area.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded. "Yeah. Let's get my wand and out of here before
      they get back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry removed the loop from the anchor stone and the obscuring
      ward darkened and shrunk down to its normal size. He grabbed a twig
      off the ground and hurried after Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius figured the front door might be protected from an
      unlocking charm, but doubted they'd bothered to ward the window. A
      whispered <em class="calibre8">alohomora</em> and Sirius was hopping through the
      frame and into the darkened living room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius!" Harry whispered forcefully. "At least disillusion
      yourself in case there are portraits."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good point," Sirius agreed and tapped the top of his head,
      casting the spell. "If things are like I remember, then the only
      wizarding portrait is an old Great Uncle in the dining room, who
      watches the floo and delivers messages."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had already disillusioned himself as he too climbed up
      into the living room. "Where are we going?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There's a safe in the floor of James' study," Sirius said as he
      crept towards the stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wut choo doin' here, boy?" A frightened little female house elf
      squeaked loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Crap," Sirius blurted out immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How'd choo get in here?" The elf demanded, shaking her little
      finger and holding herself with a bit more confidence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew the elf could pop out of the way of any spell it saw
      coming. Knowing the easy solution, he snaked an invisible arm
      around behind the elf, stunning her before she even took notice of
      the magic in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius? How many house elves do they have?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just the one," Sirius weakly answered. "Suppose I should have
      mentioned her earlier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would've required remembering her before, and that appears
      to be asking too much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nuts," Sirius said looking at the elf. "I don't suppose you
      know how to memory charm a house elf."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked at Sirius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre8">do</em> know how to memory charm a house elf!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stunned the elf again for good measure. "It's not that
      different from memory charming anyone else, but we should keep her
      stunned for now and <em class="calibre8">obliviate</em> her before we leave. You
      sure there aren't any other surprises you've neglected to
      mention?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Moony said they bought the elf when Lily was pregnant with
      James Jr. and Sarah was still in diapers. Forgive me for not
      remembering an elf I'd never met."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry followed quickly behind the disillusioned form of his
      godfather. The magical sight spell made him easy to follow and they
      arrived in the study of James Potter. Harry laid the unconscious
      house elf onto the couch while Sirius unrolled the rug covering the
      floor. A large stone square lay flush with the hardwood floors.
      This was the magical safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no visible door, nor any handle, knob, or settings at
      all. Just the Potter Family crest was carved in relief onto the
      stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry look at the solid stone block. "You do know I've never
      seen this before and have no clue how to open it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius realized he'd been staring at Harry and waiting on him.
      "Sorry. You can try just sticking your hand on the crest, but you
      may need a drop of blood."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry placed his hand over the crest and pushed down. He knocked
      on it, and it felt like solid stone. He used his new ash wand with
      a unicorn hair and pricked his finger, letting a couple drops fall
      onto the shield in the Potter crest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw nothing happening and looked up at Sirius. "Did I just
      cut myself for no reason?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius sighed. "Muggleborns." Sirius raised a hand before Harry
      could retort. "I know. You're not. But you might as well be. Try
      putting your hand on it now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry placed his hand over the crest and looked back at his
      godfather. "Great. Now I'm getting blood all over my hand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was looking at magical safe accusingly. "That should have
      opened it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well it didn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you even asked it to open?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A soft rustle of air blew out as the stone surface dissolved
      revealing a compartment far larger than possible without magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Harry said in lieu of an apology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin there's a lot of crap in here," Sirius said peering into
      the safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Accio</em> wand," Harry incanted. A twelve inch driftwood
      wand came zooming out from the underneath a couple old
      tapestries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius lunged forward and grabbed the wand he'd missed so much.
      Just like the time he first purchased it at Ollivander's, silver
      sparks and a black mist slowly emitted out from the driftwood wand
      tip. "That's the stuff."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was looking at Sirius' wand closely and began to
      transfigure the stick he'd brought with him. He lightened the wood
      tone, shaped it to resemble the wand, and coated it with a thin
      layer of lacquer. "Think this'll pass for it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius held his wand up next to it. "Nice work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't want to advertise the fact that anything is missing,"
      Harry explained as he began to push the fake replacement wand
      further down into the safe. He repositioned the tapestries to cover
      up the duplicate. "Shall we go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius nodded when he saw Harry frowning at him. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do we close the safe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Same way you open it." Sirius answered without pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scrunched his face in concentration. He exhaled tiredly.
      "I'm asking it to close. I'm ordering it to close. I'm willing it
      to close. It's not closing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius frowned. "Maybe you need to bleed on it again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bleed on what exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," Sirius said looking into the lidless block turned magical
      safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just stared at Sirius silently. After ten quiet seconds
      Harry suggested, "Maybe it's just a time delayed thing and it'll
      close on its own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius stood there silently for a moment waiting on a bright
      idea to strike or for the safe to miraculously close. When it
      seemed neither was going to happen, he said, "I'm sure that's it.
      Just needs time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pair of them stared at the safe for another minute in
      silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're sure you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm still ordering it to close right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced at his watch. "We're already going to be pushing
      it time-wise." He swished around his new wand and directed it at
      the rolled up rug. The rug unfurled and covered up the still wide
      open magical safe. "Why don't you <em class="calibre8">obliviate</em> the elf. We've
      got to work our way back through the wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking about that," Harry said moving over towards the
      unconscious house elf. "Most homes don't have any restrictions on
      the outgoing floo, only on the incoming. I say we sneak past the
      portrait and just floo somewhere public."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius was getting a headache keeping this magical sight spell
      on. He just nodded, looking forward to canceling the
      disillusionment and oculamagi spell. "Works for me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry left the elf with the memories it expected to have this
      evening. Only that it had done some work and that there were no
      visitors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The two Lord Blacks, disillusioned and silenced, crept into the
      dining room and saw the portrait was audibly snoring. Harry cast a
      slight obscuration charm in front of the portrait to keep it from
      waking up and spotting any flashes from the fireplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius went first and Harry sent a finishing spell at the
      obscuration charm, moments before the floo took him as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pair landed disillusioned and covered in soot at the Leaky
      Cauldron. One pop right after the other and they both had apparated
      back to Grimmauld Place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius let out a tired breath and collapsed onto the couch after
      vanishing the dust from his robes. "That… was <em class="calibre8">fun</em>."</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"If there is no other business to discuss," Albus said. "I
      think that shall conclude this evening's meeting. James, Remus,
      Tonks? Would you mind staying for a moment?"</span>
      <p class="calibre6">All four Potters and both Lupins had not even got up when the
      other Order members began to trickle out of the meeting hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wondered if perhaps there was anything more you'd like to
      share about the Lords Black that you might not have wanted all the
      other ears to hear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stuffy, arrogant purebloods. What's there to say?" James
      snidely remarked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Their politics could work to our advantage," Albus explained.
      "Since they carry the title of Lord they can reassign their
      representatives to themselves or others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Their politics?" Tonks asked slightly uncomfortable at the idea
      of political power in those particular hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Black family has a seat on the Wizengamot and the Hogwarts
      Board of Governors," Albus explained. "The other thing I didn't
      want to bother too many people with was a curious meeting with Mr.
      Ollivander."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James suddenly jumped to his feet in surprise. He turned towards
      Albus and frowned. "Excuse me, Albus. It appears someone just
      exited via the floo at our place. Lily, you stay here until I get
      back."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus looked thoughtful. "Would you like my assistance?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James shook his head. "It's probably just someone got lost and
      left right away."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We'll go with you," Remus said as Tonks stood next to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James nodded, mentally choosing to portkey to his bedroom rather
      than use the floo. "I'm sure it's nothing. Grab on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus and Tonks shared a glance and put their hands on James as
      he activated his portkey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was no one here when we left," James explained in
      whispers while immediately checking his bedroom for signs of
      intrusion. "And the wards never detected anyone breaking in, only
      that the floo was triggered outbound. Two times in a matter of
      seconds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He led the way out of his bedroom creeping through the eerily
      quiet home. The three of them worked in formation with James in the
      lead. He was repeatedly casting diagnostic spells that would sense
      other people even by heat signatures, and was searching for any new
      magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd worked their way to the fireplace in the dining room
      without incident. James looked around and saw absolutely nothing
      out of the ordinary. He relaxed finally and loosened the grip on
      his wand. "Whoever it was didn't seem to do anything and are gone
      now. See if you guys can find anything. I'm going to check out the
      ward anchors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus nodded solemnly at James and went to check on Peter
      Potter, the snoozing portrait there in the dining room. He heard
      James exit out the back door to check out the wards and turned to
      see his daughter fighting a chuckle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe those buggers would do this," Remus cursed.
      "And stop finding this funny."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you think they did?" Tonks asked amusement clear in her
      expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've no idea. That couch leech is childish enough to go to a
      lot of effort for some elaborate prank, but even he should know
      better than break into the bloody Assistant Director's home with a
      bloody Dark Lord on the loose," Remus snapped. "James and Lily are
      going to be worried sick for no good reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well let's allay their worries then," Tonks said, mocking her
      adoptive father. She knew she was keyed in and grabbed a handful of
      floo powder. She chucked it in, and said, "Lupin's Loft." As the
      floo began to activate she let herself get just barely sucked in
      and apparated right back to the Potters' dining room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A split second later, another pop sounded James' sudden
      arrival.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you just…?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tonks raised her hand. "That was me, playing with it.
      Considering nothing seems damaged, missing, or cursed I'm guessing
      you might have a loose connection or maybe a couple of the Mikes
      are doing some maintenance on the floo system close enough to
      trigger your sensors. If I were you, I'd think about changing your
      address in the off-chance it <em class="calibre8">was</em> bad guys testing your
      wards. Sounds like they held up though, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The wards are all up and functioning. They look to be as strong
      as they've ever been in decades." James nodded in agreement. "Yeah,
      you're probably right. I'll go get Lily and the kids. Let them know
      it was a false alarm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James activated his portkey to the Order headquarters leaving
      the two Lupins alone again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was well done," Remus said smiling at his daughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was raised a Marauder," Tonks said with her chin held high.
      "You always must be ready to lie and cover for your mates, even if
      it means pretending to have testicular cancer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus had not heard this one and raised a curious eyebrow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Some people will believe anything you tell them about a
      metamorphmagus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James Jr., followed by his mother and then father all came
      exiting out the floo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hiya Uncle Moony," James Jr. greeted just as the grandfather
      clock in the living room chimed the hour. "Oh crap. I gotta hurry."
      He ran up the stairs towards his bedroom while both of his parents
      chuckled at his antics.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks guys," Lily said squeezing Tonks' hand. "Have you eaten?
      There should be a few slices of cobbler left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peach?" Tonks asked hopefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blackberry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooh," Tonks exhaled happily. "Even better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remus grinned. "Well, if you're twisting my arm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nappy!" Lily firmly called out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a pop, the Potter family house elf appeared. "Yes'm, Miss
      Lily?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nappy!" James blurted out having forgotten about her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Massa?" Nappy said turning towards James.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you see anyone tonight? Or hear them?" James inquired
      having completely overlooked the sentient being that had been at
      home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No sir," Nappy said shaking her head. "Iza jus' been doin' my
      cleanin', Massa. I din't hear nuffin'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James felt a little more secure already. "No one in the dining
      room or using the floo?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No sir," Nappy assured him with smile. She was rubbing her chin
      in thought. "But Iza been a singin' and a hummin' while Iza
      workin'. Miss Lily said I could do dat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have such a beautiful singing voice, Nappy," Lily assured
      the diminutive creature. She recalled the reason she'd first
      summoned the elf. "I just wanted to make sure we had some cobbler
      left."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Blackberry, yes'm. Would choo like me to get choo fo'
      slices?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No thank you, Nappy," Lily said with a smile. "We'll help
      ourselves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Iza gonna clean out the fireplace now then," Nappy said
      waddling her way over towards the hearth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The group of four thanked the small elf and went to the kitchen
      for some dessert. Remus was at the rear of the group and saw Nappy
      had grabbed her little house-elf sized mop and was pushing it back
      and forth, singing quietly to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Day after day, workin' fo' Massa, Massa gonna sell me 'less I
      start workin' fassa, oh day after day, workin' fo' Massa…" her
      little voice trailed off as Remus entered the kitchen thinking
      Nappy was almost as odd as Kreacher.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They finished off the rest of the cobbler and chatted amiably
      for over half an hour. Remus and Tonks bid them good night and
      apparated away rather than to dirty the sparkling clean
      fireplace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">James was thinking about all the paperwork he still had to
      finish on the two new ancient Lords. He was brought out of his
      musings when he stepped into the middle of the rug in his study. He
      and the rug had slowly sunk all the way up to his waist into the
      Potter magical safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the hell?"</p>
      <hr size="1" width="100%" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <span>"The adrenaline, the excitement, the lightheaded feeling you
      get when you finally turn off your magical sight spell," Sirius
      argued in between the last bites of his supper. "Admit it,
      Harry.</span> <em class="calibre8">That</em> <span>was fun."</span>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't have stopped the smile from splitting across his
      face. "Maybe a little."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A little <em class="calibre8">schmittle</em>," Sirius waved off Harry's
      understatement. "You know more than me about that stuff, but we
      make a good team. What say we hit a wizarding bar and pick us up a
      couple of wenches?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you in such a hurry?" Harry argued sitting back patting
      his full belly after their large meal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless someone already has their eye on something," Sirius said
      before turning to look around the various tables in Diego's. He
      turned back towards his godson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded over Sirius' left shoulder. "Dark hair over there
      I've caught staring this way twice already. Not sure about the ogre
      she's with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced over his shoulder and had to stifle a snort. The
      ogre in question just caught the raven-haired woman smiling at
      Harry and grabbed her to get up and leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Damn," Harry said softly as the attractive woman was side-along
      apparated away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, do you really not know who that was?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That ogre, as you call him, was Stephen Parkinson, or Baron
      Parkinson in most circles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was Parkinson?" Harry asked having never met the man in
      his dimension, and only knew he had been friends with Malfoy.
      "Blimey. I didn't know Pansy had a hot older sister."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She may not," Sirius chuckled. "That was Pansy's hot older
      Mum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes widened. A devious glimmer appeared in his eyes.
      "Parkinson's a Death Eater, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius shrugged. "Don't know for sure, but he definitely
      associates with the type. Was he one in our old dimension?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed Sirius had readily accepted this as <em class="calibre8">their</em>
      new dimension, not <em class="calibre8">a</em> new dimension. "To be honest… I don't
      know. Never met him, but I'd always pretty much assumed." Harry was
      obviously deep in thought as his eyes kept twinkling despite the
      dangerous smile on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, what's that look mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry acted completely innocent. "What look?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That look," Sirius insisted pointing at Harry. "The one that
      says you're up to something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged nonchalantly. "I was just thinking about how
      we've got to pay that 134 galleon overdue notice before they'll
      reconnect our floo. And then I was thinking about tonight. You're
      right. We do make a good team. And it was definitely fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius narrowed his eyes. "What are you up to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced around the restaurant ensuring no one was paying
      them either too much or too little attention. "What would you think
      about maybe doing something like tonight… again?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius furrowed his brow. "You want to steal from Prongs some
      more? I know a thing or two about tempting fate and that's just not
      a particularly bright idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head slowly, urging Sirius to catch his meaning.
      "Not from Prongs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius took a moment to process what Harry was implying when his
      eyes widened in hope. "Don't you tease me about this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could use the money."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you better not be playing with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've got a little leeway thanks to our ass-backwards
      <em class="calibre8">noble</em> status."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I swear to Merlin, if you're suggesting what I think you are,
      the answer is yes, yes, a million times yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not just anyone," Harry insisted determinedly as he leaned
      forward. "<em class="calibre8">Death Eaters</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius glanced over his shoulder where Parkinson had formerly
      been. "I love you Harry, I really do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean once we've confirmed they are in fact Death Eaters,"
      Harry rationalized aloud. "It's kinda like we'd be doing a public
      service, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sirius couldn't help it and sniffled as he turned away in joy.
      "Damn bug just flew in my eye."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
