<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>22. Proximity - Proximity Chapter 2: Part 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="22. Proximity"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Li had just gotten back to the Auror's quarters from his
      last patrol of the night. In thirty-three minutes he would awaken
      the two sleeping trios, and he and the other five on-duty Aurors
      would take their places during the night shift. Two months ago he
      would have been going home for his three days off, but two months
      ago everything had changed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li was the senior Auror on duty now, so he sent the B trio on
      their last patrol, then sat down at the table with McCusker and
      Brown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Right about now Brown would say…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wanna play some poker before we hit the hay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McCusker didn't quite suppress his groan. Hannah Brown, the
      newest Auror on Azkaban duty, was <em class="calibre7">terrible</em> at poker. She
      had no poker face at all, and she forgot the rules far too often.
      She ruined the game for everyone else. Li missed Bahry, but after
      February, he couldn't blame Bones for finding some nice desk work
      for him to fill out his last few months of duty. Bahry had
      protested, but Bones overrode him. It was things like that that
      made Li think Bones had more of a heart than she let on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm pretty tired, Hannah," he said to Brown. "Maybe
      tomorrow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Brown seemed sad and disappointed, and McCusker groaned more
      loudly than before and said "Not <em class="calibre7">again</em>." Li gave him a
      <em class="calibre7">look</em>, this was even ruder than McCusker usually —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then he saw where McCusker was looking. It wasn't at him or at
      Brown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was at their Patronuses. Which had stopped patrolling and
      were staring intently down toward the pit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li swore loudly and knocked his chair over as he leaped up and
      ran towards the communicator, Brown was looking around with wide
      eyes and said "What is it? What does that mean?" and Li was just
      about to hit the button to contact the Ministry —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a flash of fire in the middle of the room, and there
      stood Albus Dumbledore, with Fawkes on his shoulder and a strange
      look on his face, part worry and part… something else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Chief Warlock!" said Li. "I was just about to call for backup.
      Should I —?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will take care of it," said Dumbledore. He looked at the
      three Patronuses, then back at Li. Li thought he saw those eyes
      turn to ice for a split second, but the enigmatic look replaced the
      cold one in an eyeblink. Then Dumbledore flourished his wand and
      produced his phoenix Patronus, to which he said "Go to Amelia Bones
      and say this: 'Come to Azkaban at once, bring your best Aurors with
      you, but do not be… <em class="calibre7">overly</em> alarmed.'" The silvery phoenix
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Chief Warlock?" said Li hesitantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You all might want to come over here and look," said
      Dumbledore, as he gazed out the window with the remaining
      Patronuses. There was some kind of light coming in through the
      window then, and it was getting brighter.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">For the first second, Harry clutched the phoenix with a death
      grip. He hadn't quite thought through what he was doing when he
      teleported into the open air above the Dementors' pit. It was only
      a second, though, before Harry remembered that a phoenix could hold
      him up with no effort at all; he felt strangely weightless as he
      grasped the bird's foot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked up and down, trying to gauge his altitude in the
      moonlight. He was in the centre of the triangle, about halfway
      between Azkaban's roof and the pit below — perhaps a little lower
      than halfway. <em class="calibre7">I need to be closer to the pit,</em> Harry
      thought, and he willed that thought toward the phoenix, but the
      phoenix didn't descend. Then Harry looked up and yelled over the
      wind to the phoenix: <em class="calibre7">"If I'm going to have a shot at surviving
      this, I need to minimise my effort, and that means going
      lower!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix cawed loudly, not the defiant shriek he'd once heard
      from Fawkes, but a strong declaration of <em class="calibre7">certainty</em>. The
      phoenix, it seemed, had its own opinion of the optimum point from
      which to launch this attack and had done that work for Harry.
      <em class="calibre7">Does it want me to encase the whole building in my Patronus? I
      don't know if I can extend it that far down and maintain
      consciousness. Does the phoenix know something I don't?</em> The
      phoenix said nothing; it just looked down at Harry, as if to say
      <em class="calibre7">"What are you waiting for?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">It came and brought me this far,</em> Harry thought. <em class="calibre7">I
      should probably trust its judgement.</em> All Harry needed to do,
      then, was cast the Charm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just cast the Charm, and expend his life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, the shadows of Death weren't going to kill themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought of the prisoners of Azkaban, tortured for months
      and years and decades, of erasing that torture, and of putting an
      end to the instruments of that torture, if not the actual torturers
      themselves, and cried, <em class="calibre7">"EXPECTO PATRONUM!"</em> The human
      sprang into existence immediately, and then Harry willed it to
      grow. He was doing it, he was <em class="calibre7">actually doing it</em>, he felt
      alive as he hadn't felt since February, and he poured that life
      through his arm and into the light, the blazing silver sunlight
      that burned away only the Darkness, waxing as big and as bright as
      it had when he had almost given over in February, so he could see
      nothing but the glowing air around him, and then
      <em class="calibre7">brighter.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that second was when Harry first felt the life leaving him.
      It felt strange; it didn't hurt, it didn't feel like an injury or
      an illness. A few years ago, when Harry had first read <em class="calibre7">The
      Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy</em>, he had laughed so hard at
      one passage he had fainted. That hadn't hurt, either; in fact, he
      had imagined afterward that it might be similar to how some
      narcotics made you feel. He had just lain back on the sofa in
      paroxysms of laughter until he briefly whited out and went
      unresponsive. His parents had witnessed this and been quite
      concerned for the three seconds it took him to wake up again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was like that. No pain, just a very slow, gradual, blissful
      loss of consciousness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was the first thing Harry felt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The second thing he felt was when his Patronus reached the sides
      of the building where the prisoners were kept. Just as in February,
      he could sense each prisoner as they fell under his Patronus's
      radius, being sheltered from the torture magical Britain had
      inflicted upon them. His consciousness was waning in earnest, now;
      he had to hurry up and reach the Dementors before it was too late.
      He gave his Patronus another push —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he felt the third thing. He felt the second time he
      annihilated the shadow of Death. He felt the first Dementor,
      floating down there above the pit somewhere, disintegrate as his
      Patronus encompassed it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It felt good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he had killed the Dementor in January, it had been the
      first time he had ever cast the True Patronus Charm. The thrill of
      success, his resolve to protect humanity and end Death itself, the
      further erasure of his previous Dementation, and the feeling of
      actually destroying the Dementor had all sort of blended together
      then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now he could feel the destruction of the Dementor separately
      from those other sensations. And it felt good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then another Dementor died. That felt <em class="calibre7">really</em> good. In
      fact, he wasn't sure if he was imagining it, but he thought he felt
      <em class="calibre7">less</em> faint…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A third Dementor, and Harry was sure: he was no longer fainting;
      his life was being <em class="calibre7">restored.</em> He stopped increasing the
      flow to his Patronus for a moment to think. Maybe…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Maybe it gave something back, as well as taking…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he had cast his Patronus strongly in the Azkaban raid, he
      had expended some of his life. But when he had done the same while
      destroying a Dementor in January, he had <em class="calibre7">had some of the
      expended life returned.</em> Harry had just killed three Dementors
      with one casting of the True Patronus, and he now felt invigorated,
      brimming with life, better than he had felt before he had cast the
      Charm, better than any time he could recall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry remembered Professor Quirrell telling him that there were
      more than a hundred Dementors in Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that's when the Boy-Who-Lived began to laugh.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore, three Aurors, and three Patronuses gazed down
      towards the pit, where a brilliant sphere of silver light was
      growing, fully obscuring its source.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is that… a <em class="calibre7">Patronus</em>?" said Auror Brown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed it is, Hannah," said Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Chief Warlock," said Li, "Our Patronuses — the way they're
      sitting and staring with us —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The same happened in February?" said Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir," said Li.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, so I perceived. It is not yet certain, but I believe the
      source of that light was present here that day, as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What <em class="calibre7">is</em> the source of it?" asked Brown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Boy-Who-Lived. And his new companion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three Aurors spoke at once: "<em class="calibre7">Harry Potter</em>'s doing
      that?" "Who's his companion?" "The <em class="calibre7">Boy-Who-Lived</em> broke
      <em class="calibre7">Bellatrix Black</em> out of <em class="calibre7">Azkaban?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peace. All will become clear soon. I will —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Vanishing Cabinet slammed open, and out trod Amelia Bones
      with her wolf Patronus, followed by a gaggle of other Aurors, a
      dozen of whom immediately leapt upon broomsticks and darted out the
      window, only to quickly pull to a halt and stare down at the sphere
      of light, which was quickly approaching their altitude.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia had stridden over to the window and gazed down as well,
      and when all the broomsticks were outside, she tapped the mirror on
      her belt and said "Aerial units, prepare to fire," then turned to
      Dumbledore. "Thank you for the alert. In return, I shall allow you
      to decide whether it will be Killing Curses or Stunning Hexes my
      Aurors rain upon the source of that light."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amelia, it is Harry Potter —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What?</em> Oh, very well, then." She drew her wand, pointed
      out the window, and cried "<em class="calibre7">Leviosa immobilis!</em> Stunning
      Hexes! Fire!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Those Aurors who were not completely transfixed by the silvery
      light aimed toward the indistinct centre of the sphere and cried
      "<em class="calibre7">Stupefy!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "It won't help you. Even if you could see
      him, he has a phoenix with him. He will come willingly, if he can,
      once his task here is complete."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A <em class="calibre7">phoenix</em> brought him here? <em class="calibre7">Another</em> phoenix?
      Did you, did you <em class="calibre7">procure</em> one for him so he could attack
      the <em class="calibre7">Ministry?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore replied coldly: "I do not have the power to
      '<em class="calibre7">procure</em>' a phoenix for anyone, and I would not have so
      used it if I did. The phoenix came to him of its own accord. I
      arrived in time to see them leave, and deduced where it would take
      him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia hesitated, then nodded. "Is there any danger to anyone
      here? I assume not, based on your standing around watching it
      happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore shook his head and said "No danger to any person save
      Harry himself, if you follow my advice. The Aurors were for the
      prisoners, not the intruder; in a few moments you should send them
      in pairs to guard the most powerful prisoners capable of wandless
      magic. In the meantime, I suggest you watch these last moments, and
      enjoy them, if you can bring yourself to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia frowned, but then turned to look out the window. The
      light was level with the window now, and seeping into the room
      through the floor and inner wall —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly veins of colour appeared around and amidst the silver
      glow, oranges and yellows and reds, long straight ribbons of fire
      appearing and disappearing, streaking toward the centre of that
      bright silver light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't let them touch —!" cried Amelia, before one of them
      passed directly through her torso, causing a pleasant warming
      sensation and absolutely no pain. Apparently Dumbledore was
      right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The glow grew faster then, and before Amelia could order her
      Aurors to use the streaks of light to help them aim, it had
      encompassed them all, and all she could see was silver light
      turning distinctly orange, punctuated by multiplying fiery
      rays….</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter felt everything his Patronus touched. Each prisoner
      waking up from his years-long stupor, each Auror looking down from
      above, each Dementor for the last half-second of its existence. He
      felt the Aurors' Patronuses and knew them — badger, anteater,
      dachshund, wolf — and he felt Fawkes on Dumbledore's shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry floated there in bliss, his body blazing with its own
      phoenix fire in the centre of the expanding Sun, until he knew no
      Dementors remained. He also knew that he couldn't cleanse the whole
      Earth from here, or even any other nearby land masses; he had done
      more than anyone had ever done, but one hundred and five was still
      very, very finite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He thought at the phoenix: <em class="calibre7">Can you teleport me somewhere
      else? Take me to where there are more Dementors?</em> The phoenix
      softly cawed in the negative, as Harry had expected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was tempted to just stay like this for a while, revelling
      in what he'd accomplished. But with no more Dementors to feed his
      Patronus, it wouldn't be all that long before he was in danger
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So Harry concentrated, and instinctively channeled his excess
      life energy down his arm, into his wand, and out of his body. He
      saw the opaque, orange-silver air flare to white around himself;
      the whiteness rippled outward in a spherical shell, banishing the
      radiant glow from the inside out, fading as it expanded into the
      night.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones, despite herself, gasped at the sensation of that
      last wave of the spell passing through her. She glanced around and
      could see that everyone else except Dumbledore had the same
      slack-jawed, blissful expression.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She peered down toward the origin of the spell. What it left at
      its centre looked for just a moment like a single creature, a fiery
      chimera that seemed to flicker as she looked; but within seconds,
      the lower half was fading into mere substance, while the top half
      remained distinctly a phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked around at the Aurors and Dumbledore, then gasped a
      second time when she realised that all their Patronuses were gone.
      Their Patronuses were gone, and she still felt incredible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He destroyed them, didn't he?" she asked Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore spoke gravely: "Send the Aurors to guard the
      prisoners, Amelia, then bring Mr. Potter to the highest cell on the
      A spiral. I need to speak to him alone."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter sat smiling, with tears on his cheeks, in the
      highest prison cell in Azkaban. Director Bones had led him there,
      saying only that there he would remain until the Ministry could
      decide what to do with him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The implied threat of a prison sentence had very little effect
      on Harry. He had been mentally prepared for the possibility, he had
      just turned Azkaban into a mere building, and…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…and the phoenix hadn't left when Harry finished his mission. It
      had flown him to the Aurors' station at the top of Azkaban, and it
      had sat on his shoulder as he walked the short distance to the
      cell. Slowly the realisation dawned on him that it wasn't
      <em class="calibre7">going</em> to leave, ever, unless he asked it to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had passed the test; the phoenix was his.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The part of his brain that couldn't help it was feverishly
      calculating all the things he would ask the phoenix, all the
      experiments he would perform with its powers. But the greater part
      directed Harry to just sit there smiling and crying for a little
      while, basking in the warmth. Harry didn't think anything could
      spoil his good spirits right then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the cell door clinked open, and Dumbledore walked in.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus saw the joy on Harry Potter's face when he entered the
      cell, and he saw it crack when Harry saw the look on Dumbledore's
      own face. Someday, he would tell Harry how much he hated spoiling
      this moment; they should have shared in the joy of the phoenix, he
      should have been able to tell Harry everything Harry wanted to know
      about having one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, as always, was a
      complicated case. He would already be in enough trouble for what he
      had done today; he might be in considerably more when Dumbledore
      asked what he must ask. So Dumbledore levelled his sternest gaze at
      Harry, and added this moment to his long, long list of regrets.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The look on Dumbledore's face was almost as cold as, yet
      altogether different from, any look Harry had ever seen from the
      Defence Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was very solemn when he spoke: "You have a phoenix now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, and said "I wanted to ask you, how —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We will speak later of the phoenix's mastery. For now, we have
      a great deal else to discuss. To begin with, tell me: Would you
      have accepted your phoenix's charge had I not intervened on the
      tower?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think so," said Harry after a hesitation. "I was about
      to ask it to return in a few months when you spoke."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. You have greatly desired a phoenix ever since you met
      Fawkes, yes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you surely agree that you owe me a debt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's eyes widened for the briefest of moments. "I suppose,"
      he said, with a barely perceptible quaver in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will certainly further agree that you will owe me even
      <em class="calibre7">more</em> of a debt if I can manage, and decide, to transport
      you beyond the wards of Azkaban, to where you can utilise your
      phoenix's full power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," said Harry, who was now looking a bit coldly himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. Then you may discharge that debt by giving me,
      <em class="calibre7">immediately</em>, an exhaustive account of your and the Defence
      Professor's whereabouts and actions on Saturday the eighth of
      February this year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a breath, then said "Headmaster, I already told you
      —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A shockwave blasted Harry's senses, deafening without sound,
      blinding without light, discomforting without pain, and Harry's
      limbs went limp and his eyes rolled back in his head for a moment
      as he recovered. Harry slowly regained control of himself, blinking
      a few times, and by the time his eyes were able to focus on
      Dumbledore again, he had started visibly panting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's voice was level when he spoke: "I must apologise; I
      would have spared you that demonstration if I had realised it would
      cause you to miss the cries these two phoenixes just produced at
      your deception.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter, it was out of respect for you and a desire to
      trust you that I did not forcibly view the contents of your mind
      that day. You may be an Occlumens, but you are still a new
      Occlumens, and if I am not terribly mistaken, you haven't had much
      practice lately. A skilled Legilimens can attack an Occlumency
      barrier and cause you significant distress even if he fails to
      fully penetrate it. And though you may manage to break eye contact
      with him, imperfect Occlumency will not help you if he decides to
      <em class="calibre7">force</em> you to look him in the eye again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's breathing was still ragged, his eyes still wide, but he
      said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "I don't wish to do that, Harry, even now
      that I have seen evidence indicating that you have been to Azkaban
      before. But Bellatrix Black is vital to Voldemort's plans, and so
      she is equally vital to your quest against him, regardless of who
      else was involved. And as you have just converted Azkaban from a
      torture chamber into a mere prison, you should now have less to
      fear from anyone you care about being kept here.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am sorry to give you an ultimatum, Harry, but I will do what
      I must: If you tell me the full truth, I will do everything I can,
      keep it secret from whomever I must, to return you to Hogwarts. But
      I am not the only one who has seen that evidence, and I will not be
      able to protect you if we do not resolve this <em class="calibre7">now.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was breathing rapidly and his stomach was churning.
      Quickly his mind enumerated all the competing pressures upon it:
      <em class="calibre7">It's clearly time to lose — but Professor Quirrell will be
      fired — that's guaranteed anyway — but they'll try to arrest him —
      but they won't succeed — they might if Dumbledore's with them — but
      he'll go to prison — "prison" won't kill him anymore — but I gave
      my word not to tell —</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Into the maelstrom, Harry's phoenix softly cawed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">— but everything Dumbledore said is right. Everyone will
      already know I was here before. I don't have time to concoct a
      foolproof story that omits Professor Quirrell. Bellatrix Black can
      be returned here safely, too, if she can be found. And in the end,
      I'm a criminal, and I got caught, and it's time to lose, promises
      be damned.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a moment to be sure he, and not just the phoenix,
      actually agreed with the whole line of thought. Then, looking down
      at his hands, unable to lift his eyes to meet Dumbledore's, he
      began to speak.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore let Harry speak. He had been in enough similar
      situations, and he knew enough of Harry's knack for the impossible,
      that he instinctively took conscious control over his face, his
      movements, and his breathing, so as not to give anything away by
      his reactions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was lucky to have his instincts, because when Harry
      described the end of the Defence Professor's battle with Auror
      Bahry, it was all he could do not to scream.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor was Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor was Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort was in Hogwarts, had been there the whole year,
      teaching the children, influencing them, with a body and the full
      power of a professor —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defence Professor was <em class="calibre7">Voldemort?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">So many questions — so many things didn't make sense —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">the Defence Professor was <em class="calibre7">David Monroe</em> — no, he must
      have killed him during the War and then pretended to pretend to be
      him —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">he'd had a million opportunities to kill Harry — no, he must
      still be unable to, so he tried to gain him as an <em class="calibre7">ally</em>
      —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">he trained the children to fight, they would be much better
      equipped to defend against a second reign of terror — but not if
      his strategy were completely different this time —</p>
      <p class="calibre6">but <em class="calibre7">Voldemort is pure, inhuman evil</em>, without the
      capacity to understand anything else, not even the sardonic
      pessimism of the Defence Professor…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…But no. Tom Riddle, more than anything else, was a genius. In
      the end he had turned that genius toward unimaginable horror.
      Dumbledore had always thought that his lust for immortality had
      driven him to create multiple horcruxes, and that his soul, halved
      and halved and halved again, had degenerated to the point where all
      he knew or could ever know was bloodlust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the Defence Professor…. The Defence Professor was certainly
      not a paragon of goodness. He was certainly Dark to some extent.
      But he was <em class="calibre7">ambiguously</em> Dark. He had unknown, elusive
      goals. He seemed <em class="calibre7">complex</em>; not just capable of complex,
      ingenious schemes to do evil like Lord Voldemort was, but complex
      in <em class="calibre7">himself,</em> complex as a person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If that person were Lord Voldemort, if the entire persona of
      Lord Voldemort had been a pretence, it meant that Tom Riddle was
      <em class="calibre7">altogether</em> different from what Dumbledore thought he was.
      What was he, if he wasn't Voldemort? Was he somehow even more
      depraved than the world had thought when he was flaying children
      alive? Or was there something in his core, something never hinted
      at before, that could still be redeemed? Did he even have a core
      anymore? If not, what drove him to act at all?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore focused on Harry; he had not even heard the last part
      of his story. Dumbledore cleared his throat softly. Harry didn't
      seem to realise what had distracted him, and he knew he mustn't
      give any clue of who the Defence Professor really was, in case
      Voldemort could read his thoughts that specifically. But there was
      one question, above all, that Dumbledore couldn't help but find an
      answer to: <em class="calibre7">Why didn't this brilliant child, who guessed his own
      life's story his first day in Diagon Alley,</em> realise <em class="calibre7">that
      the man he had a strange magical connection to must be Lord
      Voldemort?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry…." Dumbledore said slowly. "…Have you spoken to anyone
      else at all about any of this? About the raid on Azkaban, about the
      motive for Bellatrix's escape, about your magic's resonance with
      the Defence Professor or your Patronus's possible ability to block
      the Killing Curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said. "Well, at the beginning of the year I started
      to tell Minerva about the Defence Professor, but she made —"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"— made you stop talking, on threat of violence, no doubt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see." Dumbledore stood, said "Very well. Thank you for your
      candour today, Harry," and turned to leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster?" Harry said again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It will take time to secure your release from Azkaban,"
      Dumbledore said over his shoulder. "How much time, I cannot say.
      Take comfort spending time with your phoenix, for now." He
      half-turned toward Harry then, and tried to put the twinkle in his
      eyes, despite the panic he felt inside. "I'll try to have you out
      of here in less time than I spent agonising over Fawkes's name." He
      winked at Harry, then left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia stood in the corridor alone. "What did he say?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore didn't answer, instead speaking to Fawkes: "Bring
      Remus, Alastor, Arthur, and Molly. Meet me outside the wards."
      Fawkes cawed his assent, then swept from Dumbledore's shoulder and
      sped off toward the Aurors' station. Then he produced his Patronus,
      and instructed it: "Go to Remus, Alastor, Arthur, and Molly, and
      say this: 'Fawkes will be along shortly to bring you all to
      Azkaban. Harry Potter is here. Remus, keep Harry company if he
      wants it. Everyone else, guard him and don't let him know you're
      there. Pair off with Aurors, guard the roof above, the cell block
      below, and the interior wall from outside. Everyone mount a
      broomstick before you leave with Fawkes. Hopefully none of this
      will be necessary, but be vigilant until you hear from me
      again.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What in the name of Merlin</em> did the boy tell you?"
      Amelia yelled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That none of us ever knew anything about Voldemort," Dumbledore
      replied as he withdrew the broomstick he had just started keeping
      in his mokeskin pouch. "Guard Harry with your best Aurors. I hope
      to return shortly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you need help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't believe so. And if I do, it's unlikely that any help
      would be sufficient."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
