<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 35: CC 2: Nicked, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s32" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Nicked</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> It appears that last chapter's
      Author's Notes got misplaced before posting, somehow. Peculiar.
      Well, it's back up, with the link to the character sheet. Milo's
      build <em class="calibre8">still</em> isn't quite finalized (mainly I just need to
      pick a few more spells for Spell Mastery and clean up his skills)
      but that won't affect the story noticeably. Enjoy!</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Today's Character Sheet:</strong> myth-weavers
      com/sheetview php?sheetid=553596</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WHAT THE EFF IS GOING ON HERE?" Vernon roared, climbing to his
      feet and brushing dust and <em class="calibre8">crème brulee</em> out of his
      impressive mustache. "WHO THE—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope," Milo said, using his magically-enhanced fencing ability
      to slice off the left half of Vernon's exceptional mustache.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who is this '<em class="calibre8">Harry</em>?'" asked Mrs Mason, who seemed to
      be taking the situation remarkably well, all things considered.
      "There's no Harry here; I'm afraid you have the wrong house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter," Milo clarified. <em class="calibre8">Pelor, but these people are
      dim</em>. "He <em class="calibre8">does</em> live here, does he not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's... our nephew," Vernon said, glancing hesitantly at the
      Masons. "Left in our care after his criminal parents died. He's
      very disturbed, but we do what we can—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he <em class="calibre8">is</em> here," Milo grinned. "Now hand him over
      before things get ugly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vernon turned back to Milo and drew himself up to his full
      height, brushing splinters from the shoulder of his ruined jacket.
      He seemed to be two completely different people, depending on who
      he was talking to—ingratiating to the NPC couple, brash and
      boisterous to Milo. Peculiar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do I look like the sort of man who can be intimidated?" he
      asked, his face growing even redder. Milo looked him up and down.
      <em class="calibre8">Well, yes—if I had ranks in Intimidate. But, seeing as how I do
      not...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was thinking less 'intimidation' and more 'business
      arrangement.' You give me Harry, and I give you a house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A—a house?" Petunia perked up from the corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, following the principle that a silver piece saved is a
      silver piece earned, if I refrain from levelling this pitiful
      excuse for a house around you with magic, you are, in effect,
      gaining a house."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Vernon seemed to be debating his options—on the one hand, he
      wanted nothing more than a convenient excuse to be rid of his
      troublesome nephew, but on the other hand, he didn't want to be
      seen backing down in front of his wife and son (and, more
      importantly, potential business partners)—while, in the corner, Mrs
      Mason was fiddling with some sort of doodad on the wall. It didn't
      seem to be a weapon or wand of any sort, so Milo ignored it. If one
      of the Muggles was a wizard in disguise and <em class="calibre8">did</em> try a
      curse, Milo could always cast <em class="calibre8">Greater Mirror Image</em>. If
      they pulled a dagger or sword, well... Milo would introduce them to
      the meaning of 'Linear Fighter/Quadratic Wizard.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He heard a muffled crash and what could possibly be voices from
      upstairs, though it was hard to make out what they were saying. If
      everything went well, Ron and Fred had found Harry upstairs and
      were ferrying him out the window to the Anglia, which was parked
      out front—just out of view of the remains of the Dursleys' window.
      Milo only had to maintain his distraction for a little while longer
      before bailing out. That meant he had to change the topic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Mr Derby," Milo said to Vernon in his most menacing voice,
      "I hear you've been treating my friend Harry a mite... poorly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Vernon exclaimed in exaggerated offence. "We give him
      three meals a day and put a roof over his head! And what does he
      do—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Saved your lot's measly lives, if I remember things correctly,"
      Milo said. "Defeated a dark wizard hells-bent on causing havoc for
      you Muggles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, we're the Masons, not the Muggles," Mr Mason said. His eyes
      were unfocussed, and he appeared to be in some form of shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now," Milo said in what he hoped was a tone of deadly quiet,
      "We're going to talk about what you and your family can do to
      improve things for my friend Harry..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hesitate to ask," Harry said, passing Hedwig's cage carefully
      through the open window to Ron, who was waiting on broomstick to
      take his luggage. "But is there any chance that this was Milo's
      plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yup," Ron said cheerfully. "But from what I've heard, it sounds
      like no more than those Muggles deserve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well... true," Harry agreed, pushing his school trunk out the
      window. He hadn't bothered to unpack it after returning from
      Hogwarts. "Still, I can't help but think this plan will end in
      disaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," Ron said optimistically. "You're just saying that because
      they always do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I will guarantee that he eats the same food that we do..."
      Milo said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I will guarantee that he eats the same food that we do,"
      Vernon repeated impatiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I will give him his fair share of the loot," Milo
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I will give him his fair share of the loot," Vernon said.
      He'd long since given up questioning some of Milo's more exotic
      terms. Petunia, in the corner, looked more and more horrified with
      each swordpoint concession.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where 'fair share' is defined as 'one over the number of people
      involved.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where 'fair share' is defined as 'one over the number of people
      involved.'"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I will pay any and all gold necessary to Clerics to cure
      Harry in the event of injury or death..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Ron," Harry sighed. "That's exactly why I said it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I think it's brilliant," Fred said, helping Harry onto
      his broomstick. "Milo can use magic over the summer, and it's not
      like we have to worry about the Muggles finding out—that lot
      already knows about us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose," Harry said doubtfully, pulling his Invisibility
      Cloak over them as they flew the short distance from the window to
      the car. "Wait," he said suddenly, his hand on the door. "Did
      anyone actually <em class="calibre8">tell</em> Milo that we have to keep magic
      secret from the other Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was then that he saw the police cruiser fly around the corner
      at well past the speed limit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...And I will actively prevent glass cannons from achieving a
      flank position on Harry through appropriate deployment of tanks and
      battlefield control," Vernon said, bored.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"POLICE!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Little Whinging, being an idyllic, upper-middle-class suburb
      with an extremely low crime rate, had a police response time second
      to none—an unfamiliar concept to Milo, who was used to a city watch
      response of roughly 1d6 rounds (if the PC did it) or 1d100 hours at
      best (if it was anyone else).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A blue-uniformed, tanned man with close-cropped blond hair
      kicked entered through the unlocked front door, club in hand. His
      cap and reflective sunglasses hid most of his face, but his
      expression was grim.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Drop the weapon!" he shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Unarmoured man with a club?</em> Milo thought
      contemptuously, <em class="calibre8">this must be the militia</em>. Clearly, no
      threat whatsoever. Just as clearly, however, the situation was
      rapidly getting out of control. He could fight his way out, but
      then he'd get reported to the local magistrate, and might have to
      deal with a more competent response. Untrained, level one Commoners
      had a more easily exploitable weakness, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How does three gold pieces sound?" Milo asked. That was roughly
      a month's wages for the Myra (cityoflight!cityof<em class="calibre8">magic</em>!)
      city watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just put down the weapon," he insisted, "and we can talk
      after." The guard took another step towards Milo.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty gold," Milo said. <em class="calibre8">No, wait, the Muggles don't use
      gold as currency</em>. <em class="calibre8">But I haven't got any pounds on me</em>.
      "Five hundred pounds of salt?" <em class="calibre8">The Player's Handbook</em> does
      <em class="calibre8">state that commodities—which includes salt—are often usable as
      currency</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The city guardsman gave Milo an odd look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is this a hoax?" he asked the adults.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Petunia shrieked. "Arrest him! He's deranged and
      dangerous!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," he said, turning back to Milo. "Put the weapon down,
      and come with me. Now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. It looked like it was going to be one of
      <em class="calibre8">those</em> situations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Evard's Black Tentacles</em>." Hundreds of thick, sticky
      black appendages burst out of the floor, ceiling, and walls to grab
      the guardsman. The spell was too large to fit into the dining room
      without also grabbing Milo, so it spilled out into the front hall
      and lawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh bollocks," Ron muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should we help him?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," said Fred. "We can't do magic without getting expelled—he
      can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we'd best wait in the car and be ready to gun it," George
      finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Miss Figg knew this day would come, though she'd hoped it
      wouldn't. Peering out of the front window, she saw black
      tentacles—dark magic, if she'd ever seen it—attack the poor Muggle
      policeman. It was clear what was happening: despite Dumbledore's
      assurances, the Death Eaters were making an attempt on the
      Boy-Who-Lived's life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She grabbed a pen and quill and hurriedly began to write. As a
      squib, she couldn't simply Apparate to the Ministry, or otherwise
      use magic to communicate. She just hoped that her owl was fast
      enough that the DMLE could get a team of hit-wizards there in
      time...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo debated his options briefly. Obviously, he couldn't kill a
      member of the city watch. As it stood, he could do what most PCs
      did—evade the law until he could convince the local mayor or lord
      of his innocence, generally by killing his resident Evil Vizier in
      the main hall of the palace. On the other hand, if he could prevent
      this guardsman from reporting, it would simplify the issue greatly.
      But, without access to Enchantments or an incredibly high Diplomacy
      bonus, that was a nearly impossible task without resorting to
      murder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo heard a sudden, muffled squeak of wood from behind him, and
      spun around to see yet another club-wielding member of the watch,
      who, aside from gender, looked much the same as the first. She had
      shoulder-length brown hair, a slight build, and a set to her jaw
      that told Milo (who had finally invested a few ranks into Sense
      Motive) that she meant business. If she was surprised to see her
      partner being wrestled to the floor by magical tentacles, she hid
      it well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look—" he began. In no mood for discussion, the officer, with
      deceptive strength, grabbed Milo's sword arm at the wrist and
      roughly shoved him to the ground. The weapon clattered to the
      ground, and she kicked it away across the room. Milo heard the
      characteristic click of handcuffs clasping around his wrists as she
      pressed him against the ground with a knee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well, I'm an idiot</em>, he thought to himself. <em class="calibre8">How did
      I see a warrior without armour or weapon to speak of and not</em>
      immediately <em class="calibre8">think 'Monk'?</em> <em class="calibre8">Stupid, stupid,
      stupid</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," she said. "I don't know what the <em class="calibre8">hell</em> is going
      on here, but listen to me <em class="calibre8">very carefully:</em> call off the
      whatever-that-is <em class="calibre8">right now</em>." She spoke in an accent that,
      like McGonagall's, reminded Milo of the dwarves back home.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With his hands literally tied behind his back, Milo's options
      were limited. Most of his spells had Somatic components, meaning
      they required intricate hand gestures—difficult in armour,
      impossible in handcuffs. He could <em class="calibre8">Benign Transposition</em> to
      switch places with Mordy, but he'd still be cuffed. Unfortunately,
      the handcuffs now counted as part of his gear, meaning they'd go
      with him wherever he teleported. Still, he'd get a pretty decent
      head start—maybe enough to make it to the Anglia and escape with
      the Weasleys and, hopefully, Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, okay!" Milo said as his familiar slipped out of his
      pocket. The tentacles abruptly vanished, dropping the grappled
      constable to the ground. With wide eyes and a pale face, he
      stumbled backwards into the wall, where he sagged to the ground
      shaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't trust him!" Vernon urged, stepping forwards
      menacingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sir, I'm going to have to ask you to stand back," the officer
      pinning him said to Vernon, pulling Milo to his feet. "Evan—dammit,
      Evan! Pull yourself together and call this in!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Benign Transposition</em>!" Milo spat, his face pressed up
      against the floor. Despite managing to get the Verbal Components
      out properly, his Concentration fizzled out—casting a spell while
      Pinned was harder than it looked. Fortunately, thanks to a
      seriously overpowered Feat, Uncanny Forethought, Milo could give
      the spell another shot. Uncanny Forethought allowed Milo to leave
      some of his spell slots reserved while preparing them in the
      morning, and, on the fly, cast a spell mastered with Spell Mastery
      in its place—of which <em class="calibre8">Benign Transposition</em> was one.
      Alternatively, Milo could spend his whole turn (meaning he couldn't
      also move) and cast <em class="calibre8">any spell</em> in his spellbook from a
      reserved slot at -2 caster level (a trivial decrease in spell
      power). In short, Milo had most of the best aspects of being a
      Sorcerer while maintaining the versatility of the wide spell
      selection available to Wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Benign Transposition</em>," Milo cast again, and reappeared
      in the hall just outside the door. Unfortunately, <em class="calibre8">Benign
      Transposition</em> required direct line-of-sight and line-of-effect
      to the target, meaning that Milo had to have an unhindered path
      from himself to Mordy in order for them to switch places. This
      severely limited the practical range of the spell indoors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," the policewoman cursed, falling to the floor as the
      boy she was pinning down was replaced by a rat. Milo awkwardly
      stumbled to his feet and hobbled towards the exterior door. "Oi!
      He's making a runner!" she shouted, though her partner—Evan—seemed
      to be in a state akin to a Barbarian hit by a <em class="calibre8">Ray of
      Stupidity</em>, sitting against the wall with his head in his
      hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had almost reached the front door when the policewoman hit
      him like a truck. He tumbled down the front steps and was dragged
      to his feet again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," she said again, "Where was I? You're under arrest for
      breaking and entering, hostage taking, carrying of an offensive
      weapon, and resisting arrest. You have the right to remain silent,
      but anything you do say will be taken down and may be used in
      evidence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it's all the same to you," Ron said as the bars slammed shut
      on them, "could we maybe, you know, forget to mention this to
      Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What," Fred asked, "that we got nicked by the Muggle
      please-men?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah. That."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What should we do?" Harry asked. He looked panicked. "The
      Muggles will all find out about magic!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, what?" Milo asked. "You mean they don't <em class="calibre8">know</em>
      about <em class="calibre8">magic</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Weasley boys and Harry stared at him in silence for a few
      seconds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean you don't <em class="calibre8">know</em>?" Ron asked. "Everybody
      knows!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have to keep magic a secret," Fred explained. "If the
      Muggles found out, it'd be a disaster. There are two camps on the
      matter—the first says that we'd get no sleep because Muggles would
      constantly be bothering us for magical answers to their
      problems—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—which is fine by us, because we could make sacks of galleons
      helping them, for a small fee—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"—and those that think they'd try to burn us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What," Milo asked. "Seriously? <em class="calibre8">Burn</em> you? Is that
      idiomatic in your local dialect of Common?""</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Fred answered. "They mean, literally burn us. It's
      happened before. All the real wizards and witches were fine, of
      course, because they had magic to protect them. But a fair number
      of Muggles they mistook as us weren't so lucky. You'll learn about
      it in History of Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Weird," Milo said. From what he could tell, Muggles were some
      sort of nonmagical subrace of human with, if that policewoman was
      any indication, superior physical stats to make up for their
      clearly deficient mental processes. <em class="calibre8">You'd have to be as dumb as
      an Orc to try and set fire to someone you thought was a
      Wizard</em>, he mused. "Well, so much for that. This lot are bound
      to tell the rest. Sorry about blowing your secret world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nah," George said. "This happens all the time. Before you know
      it, the Ministry will send a team down here and Obliviate everyone,
      and likely send us off with a warning." Milo noted that George
      seemed surprisingly unconcerned. He wondered if, perhaps, the
      Weasley prankster was speaking from experience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, happy birthday, Harry," Ron added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't mention it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, PS Smythe, would you tell me why the bloody <em class="calibre8">hell</em>
      there are four kids in Hallowe'en costumes in the bin?" Inspector
      Hannigan asked angrily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hooboy</em>, Fiona thought. <em class="calibre8">This will be hard to
      explain</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, three of them were driving <em class="calibre8">well</em> underage in a
      Ford Anglia—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, all three? One for each pedal and another on the
      wheel?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir; only one of them was at the wheel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The inspector groaned audibly. "Have we alerted their
      parents?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been unable to determine their identities," she
      admitted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the remaining boy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He... was somewhat different," she admitted. "He had a
      weapon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did he now?" the inspector was surprised. "Kids lately...
      regardless. What was it—a knife, or a gun?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona swallowed uncomfortably. "Well, it was sort of like a
      knife, only a bit larger..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A machete?" The inspector's eyes widened. "I'm glad no-one was
      hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah, close enough</em>. Somehow, she didn't think that 'he
      came at me with a prop from <em class="calibre8">The Princess Bride</em>' would
      particularly enhance the credibility of her story. "Which brings me
      to the matter of why Constable Travis has requested a meeting with
      psych. What <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> happened to Evan in Little Whinging,
      sergeant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Well, best get this over with as quickly and simply as
      possible</em>. Fiona straightened her back and set her feet before
      taking a deep breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir. Magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean PCP?" The department tried to keep ahead of kids' drug
      slang.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir. I mean sorcery. Enchantments. Witchcraft. Like in the
      books."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The inspector leaned back in his padded leather chair. It had
      been in the office for over a century, and he liked to believe
      that, no matter how shocking or horrifying the report that came
      across his desk, some inspector in the past had seen worse and
      dealt with it. It lent a sense of weight and responsibility to the
      office, a tradition to uphold.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somehow, he doubted many of them had had to deal with magic. Of
      course, on this, he was incorrect—he <em class="calibre8">himself</em> had seen
      similar reports before, not that he had any way of knowing
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're putting me on." It was not a question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir. Tentacles reached out of the walls and attacked my
      partner, and the boy himself changed places with a rat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A rat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir—or possibly a mouse. But it was still magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The inspector began to see a glimmer of hope. "You realize,
      sergeant, that the Witchcraft Act of 1735 was repealed in 1951?" He
      wasn't sure why, but he had vague recollections of researching this
      in the past. "There's no law against a little conjuration here and
      there, meaning, if you understand me, that it can be left out of
      your report." As far as he was concerned, the sergeant's apparent
      belief in the impossible only became a problem if committed to
      writing and viewed by his superiors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Understood, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stick with the machete and the underage driving. We can let the
      other two go with a warning once we find their parents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, and Sergeant—<em class="calibre8">you're</em> dealing with this mess. I
      expect a full report—a <em class="calibre8">proper</em> one. On The Machine, no
      less."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inspector Harrigan hesitated. Fiona had always seemed to have a
      solid head on her shoulders, though she sometimes had a hard time
      picking up on hints. Behaviour like this was decidedly... odd. "And
      I'll be giving medical a call. I think you and PC Travis should
      have your blood tested, just in case you were exposed to
      something... odd... at the scene."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir." Inwardly, Fiona groaned—she hated needles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">'The Machine' as it was called, or, more often, 'that Damn
      Machine' referred to the shiny new Compaq running Windows 3.1. It
      was the first computer in the Surrey Police, and one of the first
      in the force nationwide. It had arrived a few weeks ago as an
      experiment before being employed by the police force on a wider
      basis, but, despite being called the 'way of the future,' they all
      knew it would never catch on. Being forced to file a report on the
      Machine, which was held in a cupboard labelled 'Computer Lab,' was
      considered a minor, unofficial reprimand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While waiting for the Machine to boot up through MS-DOS—a
      process which generally took within the vicinity of a quarter
      hour—Fiona mentally planned out her report. <em class="calibre8">Let's see... on the
      31</em><em class="calibre8">st</em> <em class="calibre8">of July, 1992, a 999-Emergency was called in
      by one Mrs Mason... suspect was a minor carrying a large edged
      weapon... suspect employed methods of a supernatural nature (which,
      by itself is perfectly legal after the Witchcraft Act was repealed)
      to assist in resisting arrest... field of ten-foot rubbery
      tentacles... sounds about right. Says everything that happened
      while pointing out that it was not the magic that was
      illegal.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had just saved the document to a floppy when the Obliviators
      Apparated into the room. Fiona leapt to her feet as a half-dozen
      robed witches and wizards appeared with staccato popping noises,
      wishing briefly that she was armed. She doubted aikido would be
      much good against what were, quite plainly, wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who the ruddy—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Obliviate!</em>" Arnold Peasegood shouted, then turned to
      his men as she sagged back into the chair. "Gumboil, check on her
      boss; Harley, go find her partner. And someone, go find Arthur
      Weasley." Three Obliviators vanished with loud pops, and Arnold
      took a look at the computer on the table. "Anyone know what the
      hell that is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My aunt's a Muggle," Milton said. "Saw one when I was a
      kid—that's an eclectic typewriter. It's used for writing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A typewriter? Are you sure?" Arnold was surprised. He'd seen
      them before, but they'd looked very different then. Muggles
      astounded him more every day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, you can tell because they all say Qwerty on them—that's
      the name of the Muggle who invented 'em."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Peculiar name," he mused, staring at the machine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He was French."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. Any chance she wrote about what happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be," Milton mused. "No real way to know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can't be too careful," Arnold said, picking up Fiona's
      nightstick. With a heavy swing, he smashed the computer's monitor
      straight to hardware heaven. "That ought to do it. We'll have to
      work this into their memory somehow—a fight with a dangerous
      criminal, maybe. Now let's go find those boys."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
