<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 37: CC 4: Railroading, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s34" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Railroading</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Today's Character Sheet:</strong> myth-weavers
      com/sheetview php?sheetid=576619</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The northern England countryside sped past them at a phenomenal
      speed as the Hogwarts Express once again vindicated Milo's growing
      feelings of the inadequacy of magic. Sure, it couldn't beat a
      <em class="calibre8">Phantom Horse</em>, but how many <em class="calibre8">Phantom Horses</em> would
      it take to carry this many students?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were missing something. Something important. Milo could
      feel it in his bones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Considering Fiona's typical lack of tact and headstrong approach
      to policing, it was little wonder that, once the replacement
      monitor arrived five weeks after a junkie smashed up the last one,
      she was once again writing a report on the Machine. Now that she'd
      figured out how to disable caps lock (she was the first in the
      station to do so; it had been on since it first arrived in June),
      she was considering herself quite computer literate. She'd
      developed a few other tricks as well, such<br class="calibre4"/>
      as the discovery that WordStar did not need to be re-installed with
      every use, and using the<br class="calibre4"/>
      control key to copy and paste text. This saved her a significant
      amount of time, as the police reports re-used quite a lot of the
      same content, such as headers, footers, signatures, etc.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was during one such minor act of self-plagiarism that Fiona
      noticed something disturbing. While altering the body of the text
      of last week's report to apply to her most recent incident
      (involving a minor and Illegal Possession of Indelible Markers),
      she realized that her old report had a few inconsistencies with her
      memory. There were a few hints here and there—misplaced commas,
      different sentence constructions, and, of course, the fact that it
      was, when you really got down to it, completely different and
      <em class="calibre8">physically impossible</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the bloody hell!?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me everything you know about Gilded Roy Law Cart," Milo
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Harry said, "Hermione here <em class="calibre8">could</em> go on at
      length about the subject, <em class="calibre8">or</em> you could just do your trick
      on his books."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, right." He fished out his half of the reading list from his
      Belt, and borrowed the other half from Ron (the Pen of Plagiarism
      +5 was still working quietly in the corner on copying the rest).
      "<em class="calibre8">Scholar's Touch</em>." He tapped each of the seven assigned
      Lockhart books in quick succession, rapidly absorbing their
      content. Milo paused as he processed the data.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well?" Ron pressed. "Anything?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm..." Harry and Ron leaned in, and Hermione, despite
      herself, began to look somewhat interested. "Interesting. In
      <em class="calibre8">Wandering with Werewolves</em>, he says that his ideal birthday
      present would be harmony between all magic and non-magic
      peoples..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And?" Ron asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing," Milo shrugged. "Pet project."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Anything else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hard to say," Milo said. "There's a lot of rubbish in
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey!" Hermione interjected. "Gilderoy Lockhart is considered
      one of the greatest, and most courageous, wizards of our time!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Curious," Milo mused. "Considering he was in Ravenclaw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A person can be <em class="calibre8">both</em> intelligent <em class="calibre8">and</em> brave!"
      Hermione was indignant. "Being in one house doesn't mean a person
      can't <em class="calibre8">also</em> have characteristics associated with one or
      more of the others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Relax, Hermione," Harry said. "We all know that's true. You're
      living proof."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked mollified—somewhat, anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I meant is that it's odd," Milo clarified, "that a person
      who is now renowned largely for their bravery would have been
      sorted into a house that takes those who explicitly value
      intelligence over bravery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shrugged. "It's probably just because action and
      adventure makes a better story than, say, cutting-edge research, no
      matter how earthshaking, so that's what we hear about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could be..." Milo felt as though they'd almost hit something
      key, but barely missed it. "Okay, so maybe old Kilroy is largely
      irrelevant. What else have we got?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona had just re-read the bit about the rubbery tentacles for
      the seventh time, then, because seven was a magic number, read it
      again. Couldn't be too careful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At first, she'd suspected some kind of prank. Maybe one of the
      other officers had messed around with her files.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it couldn't have been that. She was the first to handle the
      computer since the new monitor was put in—except for the tech
      people, of course. But they didn't have the password to actually
      <em class="calibre8">use</em> the Machine, which theoretically kept personal
      information about officers and suspects not generally available to
      the public (of course, nobody actually <em class="calibre8">used</em> the Machine,
      so there was little of such information, and in any case, the
      password was "PASSWORD").</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Aside from that, it <em class="calibre8">felt</em> right. Fiona hated trusting
      her gut feeling over facts, but there was something... familiar
      about the report. It was almost as if she could remember
      remembering the events, but couldn't remember the events
      themselves. Every time she tried, she found herself inexplicably
      remembering an urgent appointment with the Inspector.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Indeed, she suddenly found herself halfway to the hallway, just
      going to meet him about... <em class="calibre8">something</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyone hear of any <em class="calibre8">other</em> new faculty?" No-one had.
      "Mysterious prison breakouts? Ominous noises at night? Dark
      rumours? Inexplicable deaths?" Similarly, nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe we really <em class="calibre8">will</em> have a normal year," Harry said.
      "Maybe everything will be okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy was in the dangerous position of a man who had
      everything. And a man who has everything has nowhere left to go but
      down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still don't see why we didn't just nab him over the summer,
      bring him here and switch them. It's been a year; she must've had
      enough time by now," Amycus Carrow said. "The primary objective was
      a failure, but there's no reason to think the secondary won't be a
      success." Lucius marked him for the next unpleasant duty that came
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've been over this," Lucius sighed. "The Order had him well
      protected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, <em class="calibre8">I</em> for one am not afraid of a stay-at-home mom,
      her moronic husband, and a bunch of schoolteachers," said Alecto
      Carrow irritably. "We could have taken them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then what?" Lucius said wearily. "Need I remind you that,
      the last time you met, the subject in question managed to destroy
      your wand? In any case, it would have blown our cover. That idiot
      Fudge doesn't, and can't, know that we're still operating as a
      group."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we aren't, are we?" Amycus Carrow pressed. "Operating. What
      have we actually <em class="calibre8">done</em>? That boy ran off, and we've just
      been sitting on our thumbs for six months. And now he's in
      Dumbledore's grasp once more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He'd never left it, Amycus. Trust me; Dumbledore had that boy
      under lock and key, even if it didn't look it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was he, now? So, how, if he was under Dumbledore's <em class="calibre8">lock and
      key</em>, he ended up in the hands of the Muggles?" Alecto had the
      look of a person who had planned this conversation out in advance.
      Lucius realized he was treading on dangerous ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is a difference between keeping a person <em class="calibre8">in</em> and
      keeping people <em class="calibre8">out</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there?" Amycus interjected. "Because it seems to me as
      though the <em class="calibre8">Muggles</em> managed to do by accident what you're
      so afraid of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone went silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you suggesting, Amycus?" Lucius asked coldly. He
      leaned forward, and used the movement to hide the fact that he
      loosened his sleeve, ready to draw the wand he had hidden up it. He
      had another like it on his left, one down the back of his neck, and
      one strapped to each leg. He'd learned his lesson.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The necessity of subtlety entirely seemed to escape their grasp.
      Of course even the Muggles could pull off a simple abduction. But
      to do so without stirring suspicion requires all the delicacy and
      tact of plucking the sole egg from a Hippogriff's nest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing, Lucius," Amycus said, backing down somewhat. "Just
      frustration caused by the heat." Lucius decided not to point out
      the fact that it was, in fact, quite cool in his council chamber.
      Despite the late summer heat, there were charms keeping temperature
      fluctuations to a minimum. Amycus deliberately chose a thin excuse,
      and the others would notice it. Still, Lucius's position was
      tenuous enough as it was. He needed to give them something to do
      other than fight him, or worse: discover his secret. He <em class="calibre8">didn't
      want</em> the Dark Lord to return. Things were <em class="calibre8">better</em>
      now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It frustrated him to no end that they failed to see what he did.
      They'd already won—or, at least, the Malfoys had won. There was
      hardly a department, bureau, or branch of the Ministry that wasn't
      under his control to one extent or another. He had had influence in
      every major economic institution and guild, save Gringotts. But
      then, nobody had any influence over Gringotts. That was the point.
      Cornelius Fudge may be the Minister for Magic, and Dumbledore may
      be the Supreme Mugwump and Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, but he,
      Lucius Malfoy, was really in charge of Magical Britain. But they
      couldn't get over the fact that the Dark Lord was dead, and that
      mudbloods roamed freely. Lucius hated Muggleborns as much as the
      next man—well, generally more than the next man, except in this
      particular company—but couldn't they see that they were going about
      it the wrong way? The solution wasn't torture and murder. It was
      much more insidious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The solution, of course, was bureaucracy. Lucius
      could—generally—block the hiring and promotions of mudbloods and
      their sympathizers. On average. Arthur Weasley was evidence of
      that. Give him ten years, and there wouldn't be a single mudblood
      heading any department, and simple nepotism would do the rest. In
      fifty years there wouldn't be one in the Ministry. In a hundred,
      they'd all be living in ghettoes—not because they were ordered to,
      but because they couldn't afford anything better. Another
      generation and they wouldn't be able to afford wands. And he could
      do what the Dark Lord never could—ensure a successor. The Dark
      Lord's movement died with him, but there would be a Malfoy guiding
      British politics and economics for generations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But people like the Carrows and the Lestranges could never think
      that way, and, as much as Lucius hated it, he needed these people
      to maintain his position. He was backed into a corner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Powerful men backed into a corner did dangerous things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius told them what to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even the Carrows were surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fiona wrapped her arms around herself, shaking gently. She'd
      been the one to write the report, and she'd somehow forgotten about
      it—no. She hadn't <em class="calibre8">just</em> forgotten about it, another memory
      had <em class="calibre8">replaced</em> it. Her memories for that exact date and time
      were <em class="calibre8">different</em> and <em class="calibre8">incompatible</em>. That didn't
      necessarily mean that what she'd written was the truth, and that
      she'd apprehended a dangerous and violent child armed with
      supernatural forces, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But if she was wrong... why was her memory altered? Who would do
      that? Who <em class="calibre8">could</em> do that? MI5?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hadn't been drugged—she'd taken a blood test that very day.
      Her memories told her it was to make sure she hadn't come into
      contact with anything dangerous in the drug den she'd raided, but
      her report said it was to see if the entire event hadn't been
      brought about by a hallucinogen. Worrisomely, her being sent to the
      medic—and the fact that she'd written the report on the
      Machine—implied that she'd told the Inspector, who hadn't liked it.
      Was his memory altered too? Or was he the one who'd done it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Either way, the test had cleared her... maybe. Assuming she'd
      actually taken it, and the medic's report hadn't been tampered
      with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One thing she knew—the more people she told about this, the
      greater the chance that whoever had done this would come back and
      do it again. Last time they'd tried to destroy the computer
      evidence—the monitor had been smashed apart that day. It had always
      seemed weird to her that the violent criminal resisting arrest had
      somehow made his way into the computer lab. They'd mistaken the
      monitor for the entire computer. It was an easy mistake to
      make—Hollywood did it all the time, and in any case, who knew
      anything about computers?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Anything she did, anyone she spoke to, could trigger whoever had
      done this to come back and do it again. She'd have to take
      precautions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It isn't paranoia if there really <em class="calibre8">is</em> a conspiracy,"
      Fiona muttered to herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here's something," Milo said. "Harry—what <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> were
      you doing when I came to rescue you last month? No, wait... what
      were you doing several hours <em class="calibre8">before</em>." He had to find out
      what had triggered his drop out of the timeskip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dunno... Vernon was shouting at me because of Hedwig, who had
      woken up and was making noise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, wait, wait," Milo interrupted. "Who the <em class="calibre8">hell</em> is
      Hedwig?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My best and first friend," Harry said. "My pet owl that I got
      at Diagon Alley? She was a gift from Hagrid. I've told you about
      her before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't think you have. It would have been in the plot
      somewhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, <em class="calibre8">excuse me</em> if I don't remember the name and
      backstory of every familiar in the party."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway... the Muggles were being rude, so I said, 'you forgot
      the magic word' when my aunt asked me to pass something, then they
      shouted at me more, then..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let me guess—your mind started wandering, longing for school
      and adventure and friends? Mixed with a bit of recap of what
      happened last year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yeah. I was bored."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dammit," Milo muttered. "It was just the <em class="calibre8">adventure
      introduction</em>. By the DM."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"DM?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Descriptive Monologue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, Crabbe, Goyle," Draco Malfoy said to his... friends?
      Henchmen? Minions? Minions. "This year, we need to take revenge on
      Milo for <em class="calibre8">last</em> year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean when he floored the lot of us, boss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, you mean when he knocked our teeth in, boss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Tooth</em>! There was only <em class="calibre8">one</em> tooth kicked in!"
      Draco said, indignantly. "And yes—for that humiliation." When Draco
      had confronted them in Diagon Alley, he'd been bluffing. He had no
      plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that was three weeks ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what's the plan, boss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, what's the scheme, boss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we've learned the impracticality of what one might call
      the <em class="calibre8">direct</em> approach—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because we'll get the rest of our teeth kicked in, boss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, because we'll die of internal bleeding, boss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, now shut up. <em class="calibre8">But</em>. He has weak spots, points of
      vulnerability—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's the difference between a weak spot and a point of
      vulnerability, boss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, what's—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Shut</em>. <em class="calibre8">Up</em>. Only one of you needs to ask the
      question! And there's no difference! I was employing a
      <em class="calibre8">rhetorical device</em>! Repeating the same thing slightly
      differently was the only way anything would penetrate your thick
      skull! <em class="calibre8">Anyway</em>—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So which weak spot do we clobber, boss?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, boss, the kneecaps or—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do <em class="calibre8">not</em> finish that sentence, Crabbe." Draco sighed.
      His father didn't have difficulty dealing with minions. He just
      told them what to do, and they did it. He'd best just cut to the
      Snitch, then, and skip the patter. "I'm <em class="calibre8">saying</em> we go for
      the damn rat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that solves the Mystery of the Timeskip," Milo said.
      "Unfortunately, <em class="calibre8">solving</em> mysteries is just making the
      matter worse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How so?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should be <em class="calibre8">opening</em> possible plotlines, not closing
      them!" Milo was sweating. "Hooks! We need hooks!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just relax," Hermione said. "You don't know there's something
      malicious happening."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes I do!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There always is!" Milo insisted, becoming increasingly
      aggravated. Failure to catch the foreshadowing now would inevitably
      make things much difficult later on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, there isn't," Hermione reasoned. "We went six months
      without problem. Remember? You even aced the Transfiguration
      final."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still wondering how you did that," Ron muttered. "You never did
      tell us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">skipped</em> through six months without problem!"
      Couldn't they see? There was always a plot to kill him, to frame
      him, to capture him, to kill the king, to kidnap the princess, to
      destroy the world, to achieve immortality, to summon fell demons
      from the Abyss... always. That wasn't paranoia, that was
      <em class="calibre8">fact</em>—if there <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> something horrible going on,
      he'd simply timeskip through it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wasn't timeskipping now. On the other hand... on the other
      hand, he'd been wrong in July. Maybe he was wrong this time, to...
      maybe he wasn't in a timeskip simply to establish character?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If so...</em> Milo's Optimizer hindbrain started revving up.
      <em class="calibre8">If so, there is a distinct and tangible way that I can
      capitalize on this time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have I ever told any of you how I was picked on by the other
      kids?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inwardly, Milo grinned. <em class="calibre8">Roleplaying XP. Easy money.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape set down the owl letter, thinking very carefully. It
      wasn't every day that Lucius Malfoy asked him to brew a potion, but
      then, it wasn't exactly rare, either. The Potions Master's talents
      were hardly a secret, and he did occasionally get requests from
      wizards and witches for particularly a difficult brew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this situation was different. In those cases, Snape could
      always refuse, saying that the potion was too dangerous, or even
      illegal (or simply that brewing it would get in the way of
      teaching). But with the Malfoys... without blowing his cover as a
      Death Eater, he'd have no choice but to comply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Normally this wasn't a problem, and he'd have a bottle of, say,
      Veritaserum or an antidote in the mail as soon as it could be
      brewed. Normally, the uses of such a potion in the hands of Lucius
      Malfoy would be relatively harmless, or, at least, harmless enough
      to warrant complying to maintain his cover. But this particular
      potion, and in such a volume...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Half a gallon of Polyjuice, at maximum potency, was enough to
      keep someone continuously disguised for a little over a month.
      There was little doubt that this was part of a larger plot, and,
      more than likely, it wouldn't be to blackmail some minor government
      official. This was something sinister—and Snape suspected it was no
      coincidence that the letter arrived on the first day of term.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snape hurriedly composed a letter to Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...and <em class="calibre8">that's</em> how I first learned magic, <em class="calibre8">and</em>
      managed to become a Wizard despite being several years under the
      minimum starting age."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Clever," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," said Hermione. "That was a <em class="calibre8">brilliant</em>
      workaround, I must say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was always rather proud of it," said Milo, which was true,
      though he was <em class="calibre8">more</em> proud of the 400 XP he'd just earned.
      He wondered if he could always earn roleplaying XP offstage during
      a timeskip, because, if so, he could be suplexing Kord, the god of
      strength, before the year was out—assuming he did nothing but talk
      about his feelings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, there's the castle," Ron said, glancing out the window. "We
      should probably change into our robes before we get there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Best hurry," Harry suggested. "We left it late because of
      Milo's <em class="calibre8">gripping</em> tale."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Speaking of our robes," Milo said, "I've got something for you
      guys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" Hermione asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We seem to get into trouble of a rather... physical nature
      fairly frequently."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's one way to put it," said Ron. "I've still got the
      scars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. To mitigate this problem somewhat, I've made four sets
      of robes similar to mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're wearing <em class="calibre8">uniforms</em>, mate," Ron said. "Of
      <em class="calibre8">course</em> they're similar to yours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I meant magically similar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. That makes much more sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway," Milo said, passing out the robes he was keeping in his
      belt. "They're like a scaled-back version of my robes. You
      obviously wouldn't benefit from the bonus mine gives me to
      Conjuration spells, so I just made ones with the armour bonus. Now,
      I'm not really sure how an AC bonus will affect you three, because
      I'm not completely certain you <em class="calibre8">have</em> an AC. However it
      works, though, your uniforms are now the defensive equivalent of a
      solid steel plate. Won't do anything against magic, of course, but
      it'll do wonders against pointy things." When it came down to it,
      they were just Bracers of Armour +4, but took the torso body slot
      instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brilliant," Ron said. "With one of these, I can
      <em class="calibre8">finally</em> tell Malfoy what I really think of him... with my
      <em class="calibre8">fists</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That last bit was implied," Hermione said. "You really didn't
      need to clarify."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And it'll help in case I get caught by a stray bludger!" added
      Harry. "For a while, anyway." Harry was keenly aware that his
      ankles were already starting to peek out from under his usual
      uniform.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, like all magic gear, it'll resize to fit," said Milo.
      "Theoretically, it'll last forever. As an added perk, they've got
      holy symbols of nearly every deity I could think of stitched on
      them—in black. They may be invisible, but they're still there. Any
      vampires that come near are in for a nasty shock." He'd retrofitted
      his own robes with them, as well. Making something count as a holy
      symbol came with multiple perks and no downsides, so there was
      little reason not to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If they're not as good as the one you're wearing," she said
      slowly, "why did you make four? There's only three of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you know... just in case," he said evasively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," Hermione said skeptically. She looked like she was
      going to say more, but was cut off by the train's horn and the
      screech of brakes as the Hogwarts Express came to a stop at its
      destination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was with some trepidation that Milo stood to exit their
      vehicle. This wasn't the first time he'd entered a potentially
      dangerous situation without any idea what to expect, but he had
      a... well, a feeling. A sense of dread. It was hard to explain, as
      it lay outside of his two usual methods of prediction—magic and
      metagaming. They were comfortable, reliable. They could be
      analyzed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was... fluff. Fluff implied interference from the DM (the
      Destiny Manipulator). Despite the best attempts of gods and PCs, it
      was the DM that had the final say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo took his first step on the worn stone platform of the
      Hogwarts Express's final and only station, he hoped fervently that
      any perceived symbolism was purely coincidental.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Notes:</strong> Hilariously, considering
      Fiona's first section, I just edited out a number of weird
      formatting issues caused by copy-pasting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">D&amp;D Tip:</strong> Complete Scoundrel's Nimble Charge
      skill trick (CS 83,87) allows you to charge or run over "a
      difficult surface" without needing to make a Balance check once per
      encounter. Consult your DM for the limits of that ability, but by a
      strict (ie, unrealistic) reading of the rule, it lets you run
      across clouds (DC 120) once a combat at level 2.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Under more realistic interpretations, you can still do really,
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> cool things with 100% reliability, such as charge
      across ropes, rigging, and (with Tumble) the weapons of your
      enemies. Combine with a Grapple-Firing Crossbow for
      <em class="calibre8">extreme</em> awesome.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Happy gaming, folks!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
