<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 10: A Free Elf, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: A Free Elf</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby was a free Elf.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For as long as he could remember, he had wondered about freedom
      – guiltily. He didn't even know, exactly, when he'd admitted the
      wish to himself. But over the years it had only grown, almost to
      the point of pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby knew he was crazy. Elves did not wish for freedom. Elves
      existed to serve. An Elf without work, without a master, was...
      nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Dobby <em class="calibre8">did</em> love working. He had no desire to do
      anything else; what did leisure time even <em class="calibre8">mean</em>? It was the
      Elf Bond that galled him. His master had complete authority over
      <em class="calibre8">everything</em> in his life. If his master wanted to let off
      steam by using the Cruciatus Curse on him, he had to take it
      without complaint. If his master told him to see to his own
      punishment for minor transgressions, he had no choice but to
      comply, to the point where he was constantly nursing injuries and
      could only barely stop himself from ramming his head into the wall
      for having rebellious <em class="calibre8">thoughts</em>. If his master wanted him
      to poison the unattended cup of the wife of a political opponent,
      he had to do it, no matter what he himself might feel for the
      people involved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, after years and years of silent longing, Dobby's chance
      had finally come. The Great and Noble Harry Potter had talked to
      the non-magical humans, and among many other things, they had made
      the wizards agree to free any Elf who asked for it. Freedom was
      within his reach; all he'd have to do was to pop to the new
      Department of Magical Races in the Ministry of Magic, and they'd
      summon his Master and force him to give Dobby clothes there and
      then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet he'd stalled. With his old Master he wouldn't have
      hesitated a second, but the young Master was <em class="calibre8">not</em> like his
      father. He didn't kill people, or play nasty political games – at
      least not yet. He didn't even visit needless cruelties on the Elf,
      and had gone so far as to tell him to "stop constantly beating
      yourself up for no good reason, it's distracting". He was still
      likely to snarl at the Elf when he noticed him, or otherwise act
      dismissively, but if the old Lord Malfoy had been more like his
      son, Dobby would probably never have come to desire freedom so
      much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the wish <em class="calibre8">had</em> grown, and it hadn't left with Lucius
      Malfoy's death. It was just that, with the immediate prospect of
      actually getting his wish, the thought terrified him too. He
      dreaded the idea of not having a master; what would he do with
      himself?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was until he'd heard of the Open Call for Creatures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The advertisement had been placed in the human newspapers, but
      it was spoken in whispers among the Elves. <em class="calibre8">Members of all
      non-human magical races are invited to apply to the British Space
      Agency for research purposes.</em> What they wanted the volunteers
      to do was potentially dangerous work, and the more controllable
      magic the applicant had, the better. An Elf would be perfect; but
      most of the Elves were far more interested in serving their
      masters, and if an Elf was ordered by their master to go, the BSA
      would be bound to reject such a non-volunteer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had gone to the address listed in the papers and volunteered.
      Then he had found his Master and asked for clothes. The young boy
      had looked shocked, but – surprisingly – perhaps a little relieved
      as well. Had Dobby reminded him of his father too much? Whatever
      the reason, he had not protested, but simply passed Dobby a
      sock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And now, here he was, among human astronauts, on his first lunar
      mission. He was to test whether House Elf magic still worked, and
      whether being away from earth's magical field would hurt him or
      otherwise have strange effects. It was entirely possible that he
      would die, but so far (he thought, as he stared at the stars
      outside the rocket) everything seemed to go well. And if
      <em class="calibre8">he</em> could survive there without ill effects, the humans
      would finally have enough security to take the risk of sending a
      phoenix. From there, the possibilities were endless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dobby was a free Elf. He would no longer serve a single human.
      He would serve all of humanity.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
