<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 11: Moon Phoenix, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 11: Moon Phoenix</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, Xare. You see the place, right? Go there, stay just for a
      bit, and then come back. But if you're in trouble, get back here
      immediately, okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Caw." It sounded a little disgruntled – the phoenix did
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> like going places without her master – but she would
      do it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then go. And come back in one piece!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a burst of flame, Xare disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione waited, her heart beating rapidly. Less than two
      seconds later, the fire-bird appeared on the big screen ahead,
      wings flapping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was the final test. If Xare was alright on the moon,
      Hermione herself would finally be allowed to go. She had done all
      kinds of experiments, and she'd been put through a version of basic
      astronaut training. Her space suit was specifically fitted for her
      and its life-support system was tested to withstand magic. There
      was, right now, a rocket on the moon, with a spare place to take
      her back should anything go wrong. Professor Sinistra had gone on
      the previous mission, and verified that witches could withstand
      space like normal astronauts. Hermione had used Ignotus's spell,
      and verified that astronauts did not lose their soul. Testing with
      the resurrection stone had indicated that even for those who had
      died in space, the soul was unharmed. Everything suggested it was
      perfectly safe for her to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Xare is being here," sounded a squeaky voice over the computer.
      Dobby, the little House Elf who had volunteered to go along on this
      mission as, basically, a guinea pig. He was a creature of magic who
      could reason and speak; if anything was causing problems for
      magical creatures, he would notice. But he hadn't experienced any
      problems; even his magic worked perfectly. Better than human magic
      for that matter. He hadn't tried anything potentially risky yet,
      like Apparition, but he would start experimenting with that the
      moment she was there and able to quickly bring him to a hospital
      should things go wrong. (And hadn't it been hard to get the excited
      Elf to agree not to take unnecessary risks. He clearly didn't value
      his life very much.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a burst of flame, and Xare appeared before her,
      looking quite happy. On the screen, she flapped her wings a last
      time, then burst into flame and left. Xare had come faster than the
      signal; this strongly suggested that phoenixes were not constrained
      by the speed of light. They'd analyze the exact time of
      disappearance and appearance using a computer, of course, but it
      matched the tentative hypothesis from the testing data they'd
      already acquired on earth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Caw?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Xare," she beamed, looking at the commander, who nodded at
      her. "Let's go."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
