<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 13: And the Bad, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: And the Bad</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Annika glared at the outlandishly dressed man as he casually
      strolled to the wine shelves and pocketed five bottles of
      high-quality vintage. The man utterly ignored her as he added a
      number of fine cheeses to his bag, summoned several bars of
      chocolate from a distant aisle with a flick of his wand, and
      finally disappeared with a sharp <em class="calibre8">crack</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ever since the secrecy of the magical world had been lifted,
      life had taken a decided turn for the worse. Oh, it had
      <em class="calibre8">looked</em> promising at first, when that kid from England had
      given his big speech. The people in Sweden were not so fortunate,
      though. It had only taken two days before their own wizards
      appeared on TV, making it clear that magical Fennoscandia was not
      governed like magical Britain was, and that its citizens had no
      intention of bowing to the Muggles. They had spoken the word with a
      sneer, as though it were a deep insult. Instead, the normal,
      <em class="calibre8">Muggle</em>, politicians had quickly negotiated a pact of
      non-interference with the wizards. Normal people and their
      government would not interfere with the magical side of the country
      in any way, and in exchange, wizards would leave them alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But they hadn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once everything had calmed down, wizards (and witches, she
      supposed) were seen in the open more and more. But they didn't act
      like they were guests in the normal people's cities; they behaved
      as though they were the nobles and everyone else were serfs. The
      first time this wizard had come to take items from the shop, he had
      surprised everyone by just disappearing without paying. The second
      time, the shop owner had approached him, but the wizard had done
      something with his wand that had the man screaming in pain, and
      left him with hallucinations for days. They hadn't bothered him
      since, but they all felt the loss in their paychecks as the shop
      had to recoup its losses somehow or go bankrupt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nor was this wizard the only one. There were talks of thefts, of
      people getting covered in boils for "showing disrespect", or
      disappearing altogether... Lately, there'd been quite a few tales
      of young women who had found themselves at work or school in the
      morning with no memory of the previous night. None of those stories
      appeared in the national newspapers or on television, but they were
      printed in local magazines. Or, more commonly, repeated in hushed
      whispers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The police didn't do anything. They might investigate
      complaints, but they had been given strict instructions to simply
      forward their conclusions and leave the magical "Aurors" to police
      their own kind. When Annika had pressed them for action, the senior
      officer had explained that they genuinely had no options: they had
      neither weapons nor knowledge to deal with wizards, and the
      national police absolutely refused to support interference with
      magic. The politicians didn't even acknowledge that there was a
      problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, in the last month, international channels had been removed
      from the standard TV package, <em class="calibre8">supposedly</em> due to lack of
      interest, although everyone she knew had only started watching the
      BBC <em class="calibre8">more</em> since the magic war. Meanwhile, the national news
      was showing fewer and fewer updates about foreign magical advances.
      The country's borders were still open, but she suspected that this
      was only a matter of time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Annika wasn't stupid; she could see what was happening. There
      was no way that not a single party would have objected to the
      current arrangement; at the very least some populist idiot should
      have cast a throwaway-vote just to be contrary. But that little
      girl from Britain had talked about memory-altering spells; couldn't
      those be used to make a group of politicians <em class="calibre8">think</em> that
      they had agreed? Could there be even easier spells to put the
      leaders and the press of a country under magical control? It seemed
      more than likely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the people were letting it happen. Even as their democracy
      was eaten away, as the offenses grew worse and their own options to
      fight it were steadily eroded, there was no uprising. The wizards
      were chipping away at the fundamental rights and freedoms of the
      common people until there was nothing left; and by the time the
      non-magical people realized that they should revolt, it would be
      too late to succeed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hopefully, the UN would intercede. Surely foreign wizards would
      understand what was happening? Or was the same thing happening
      everywhere?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If there was no help from outside to be had, there was still one
      point of hope, one group who might help. The Fennoscandian wizards,
      in their television appearance, had made it clear that they were a
      proud nation with a long history; and that, contrary to some
      nations, no new blood was admitted into their midst. But that girl
      from Britain <em class="calibre8">had</em> been new blood – Muggleborn, she'd called
      it. If all those Muggleborns from Fennoscandia were not inducted
      into the magical world... were they still out there somewhere?</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
