<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 14: Spellcrafting, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s14" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: Spellcrafting</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">November 1992.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So." the professor sat down next to where the two of them were
      studying in his chambers. "Does magic make more sense when you add
      in mathematics?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Yes</em>," his son said empathetically. "Absolutely. It's
      actually kind of obvious, really."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded happily in agreement. "Isn't it amazing what you
      learn when you read <em class="calibre8">books</em> and study what wise old wizards
      have already discovered?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shot her a glare, and she poked her tongue out. She'd
      earned the right to be a <em class="calibre8">little</em> smug on this one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm hardly going to deny the usefulness of a Wise Old Wizard
      now that I'm apprenticed to Ignotus," he pointed out. "But in all
      fairness, we wouldn't have learned any of this until fifth year
      without him." He turned back to his father. "For some reason, the
      department of education in the Magical Ministry doesn't think that
      twelve-year-olds can learn mathematics yet, and the Arithmancy
      <em class="calibre8">elective</em> doesn't even explain the theory of spellcrafting
      until after teaching all the relevant mathematical techniques."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think there's a reason for that, actually," Hermione said.
      "If they moved too fast, someone might start experimenting and get
      themselves killed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," Harry said more soberly, and a little self-consciously.
      "I suppose someone might. Don't <em class="calibre8">worry</em>, Dad. I'm doing
      theory <em class="calibre8">only</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">For now,</em> Hermione thought, but she wisely held her
      tongue. The professor was looking alarmed enough as it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The basic idea is very simple," Harry quickly continued. "See,
      obviously the universe doesn't have a special case for someone
      saying <em class="calibre8">Wingardium Leviosah.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His father nodded. "Obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. And the reason it requires such a strange spell is that
      floating an item the way that spell does isn't <em class="calibre8">basic</em>.
      There is a core effect of magic to lift an item using your own
      magic, canceling its gravity. There is a core effect to make an
      item go up. There is another effect to give an object a sort of
      nudge, changing tis direction, and one to regulate its speed. The
      spell doesn't just float an object, it applies the lifting effect,
      gives the object an initial push upwards, and then passes mental
      control over the speed and direction effects to the caster. It's a
      <em class="calibre8">computer program</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Without the computer I suppose," Harry's father said absently.
      "All that in such a short spell – that must be a very efficient
      language."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It has to be," Hermione spoke up. "Longer spells, with more
      actions, put a large strain on the caster's wand – if the spell is
      too long, it'll just fail. But there are quite a few ways to
      combine effects and lift them towards actual spells. The art of
      spellcrafting is to find a way to efficiently combine basic effects
      into either a spell that's short enough to cast, or at least
      something that can be split up into <em class="calibre8">multiple</em> spells.
      N.E.W.T. students usually don't get beyond a level where they can
      combine more than a few simple effects before pushing the limits of
      most wands, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Limits which, incidentally, are a lot more lenient with the
      elder wand," Harry added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," the professor said. "That sounds intriguing. And how
      exactly can this get you killed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Side effects," Hermione explained, as Harry groaned softly.
      "When you string a lot of magical effects together into a short
      spell, there's a chance that you trigger some effects that you
      hadn't been aiming for as well, more so if the spell is more
      compressed. In some cases it's even <em class="calibre8">unavoidable</em> that you
      get side effects – in which case the goal is to avoid the more
      detrimental ones. The problem is that there is no way to directly
      list what side effects might occur – you can figure it out on an
      individual basis, but it's very easy to miss some possibilities.
      And that's where it gets dangerous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmm. But I guess if they allow students to do it, you won't
      get a side effect that blows up the school when trying to do
      something simple."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. There are a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of basic magical effects – tens
      of thousands, at least – but they're in connected groups. So if you
      try to make a charm to conjure floating lights, you might end up
      causing stench or maybe setting things on fire, but you won't
      accidentally blow yourself up. You <em class="calibre8">can</em> blow yourself up
      when designing attack spells, but unless you involve specific power
      multiplier techniques, side effects still cannot cause you to blow
      up the school. And there is no realistic way to use these basic
      effects to do what Merlin would call 'true devastation', although
      that's a pretty high bar. It <em class="calibre8">is</em> still possible to destroy
      an area of a few miles across or permanently mutilate someone's
      soul or something like that. Those effects aren't taught before
      Master level, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The professor twitched briefly, and turned to Harry. "Except you
      <em class="calibre8">are</em> studying spells to manipulate the soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well yes," Harry conceded. "And there are quite a few effects
      in that group which can hurt the soul if misapplied, so any screwup
      could be disastrous. But I'm not <em class="calibre8">casting</em> any of this. I'm
      just doing the maths, and right now, all the grub work of learning
      the possible effects, how they must be applied, and how they work
      together. I won't even think of casting anything before Ignotus
      approves it, and he's supposed to be an expert on this. I promise
      I'm not about to risk my magical mind-backup immortality device,
      Dad."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess that's the best I can hope for." Professor Verres
      looked somewhat grim. "Although I do still worry. You know I'll
      never forgive myself for not stopping you if you do get hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dad... It's not like you <em class="calibre8">could</em> actually stop me. This
      is something I just have to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," he sighed. And with your mother's life at stake...
      Well, I guess I'm selfish. But at least stay as careful as you can
      be." He shook himself, then glanced at Hermione with a hint of
      embarrassment. "Anyway. As I understood it, you managed to create a
      spell last year. But you didn't know any of this then, did
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sort of," Harry nodded. "But that's a bit of a different case.
      You see, the basic magical effects are necessarily limited in what
      you can do with them. But it's also possible to create <em class="calibre8">new</em>
      effects, which do not necessarily have any limitations. It's not
      easy, though. To create a new effect requires a strong emotion or
      mental state, usually – but not always – a lot of magical power,
      and some unknown factor as to whether the universe allows it. You
      also typically have to create the effect as a part of a larger
      spell to be able to do anything with it. For example, the Patronus
      Charm uses seventeen different basic effects, while the core of the
      spell is powered by the emotion of ignoring death. I simply changed
      the powering emotion while keeping the rest of the spell unaltered.
      It really was more of a change than a new creation, but I guess it
      <em class="calibre8">did</em> create a new magical effect, so it counts for the
      Interdict of Merlin. The Interdict makes sure people can only
      access emotion-fueled effects if they have learned them from a
      living mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Inconvenient. Although necessary, I suppose. But how can there
      be so many 'powerful spells', then? I would imagine the emotional
      spectrum to not be <em class="calibre8">that</em> large."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a powerful emotion channeled towards a specific purpose,"
      Harry explained. "The Killing Curse for instance doesn't require
      just <em class="calibre8">hatred</em> – which could easily fuel many spells – but
      the explicit and absolute wish for someone to die. In the Patronus
      case, I used my abhorrence of death for the specific purpose of
      destroying a Dementor. The spell ended up doing a lot more,
      partially due to those other seventeen effects and partially
      because of what I was thinking and feeling at the time, but as you
      can imagine there are easily millions of emotion-driven goals."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," the professor nodded thoughtfully. "But I suppose this
      is all irrelevant to you – you only need to work with basic effects
      for now, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, actually," Harry answered. "Ignotus taught me several
      soul-related emotion-fueled spells he and his brothers developed
      during their life – Cadmus, mostly; he was very emotional. He
      thinks I might be able to use one or more of the effects if I can
      isolate it from the rest of the spell. I haven't really gotten to
      the point of analyzing that, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you need help? I'm sure we could easily get a mathematician
      to work with you. Or if it's all exact work, perhaps even a
      computer programmer?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are already some Muggles studying arithmancy," Hermione
      observed. "A group in Spain got the security clearance last month –
      mixed mathematicians and computer scientists. And they <em class="calibre8">are</em>
      planning to let a computer take over at least some of the work."
      She'd been very enthusiastic when hearing about that project, even
      if a small and rather silly part of her was sad that she couldn't
      join the group herself. But then, she didn't have the expertise,
      and even Time-Turners and phoenixes had their limits. "I don't
      think it would be easy to make a computer understand the
      consequences of combining certain magical effects, but it probably
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> propose a design and tell you what side effects you
      risk. It would be an invaluable tool in spell design. But they have
      to attain a mastery in arithmancy before they can really get
      anywhere, so it'll probably be a few years at least."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is longer than I can wait," Harry added. "I want to
      finish this before the Suspension Charms on Mum and McGonagall and
      the Hogwarts students wear out. And there's a lot of red tape to go
      through to involve Muggles in this sort of thing as well.
      Dumbledore and the rest of his lot are adamant that we cannot have
      competition-driven publication pressure, because that might lead to
      information being released that could be dangerous, yada yada, so
      it probably isn't worth the trouble. Besides, the main work for now
      isn't the mathematics, it's figuring out what to do and to avoid in
      the first place. And since there aren't <em class="calibre8">any</em>
      soul-arithmancy experts alive except for Ignotus, it would probably
      be a bad idea to start on any actual spells before he okays the
      plans I have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you really think you'll get this done before the Suspension
      Charms wear out?" Hermione asked quietly. "Without resorting to
      spells that might be dangerous?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Suspension should last for almost two years. And don't
      forget that, with the elder wand – and Dumbledore's own power – I
      have a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> more leeway in the spell design than an
      arithmancer would normally have. That should make it possible to
      avoid most of the nastier side effects or the truly unexpected
      behavior. And with the philosopher's stone, and Ignotus's help... I
      really think it's not unrealistic that we might start resurrecting
      people in the summer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you're sure he will help?" Professor Verres-Evans
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just sighed, and shared a look with Hermione. "I think so.
      And I really hope so."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
