<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 15: Lord Black, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: Lord Black</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">December 1992.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath carefully opened the door to the hospital room and
      slipped inside. There wasn't much need to act inconspicuous, really
      – he'd been <em class="calibre8">called</em> here, after all. But the habits of a
      lifetime were hard to break, and he was nervous today, as he had no
      idea what this man wanted from him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Regulus Black, sitting upright on the bed, looked him over
      coolly. "Lesath Lestrange?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath approached the bed and gave a short bow, as Professor
      Snape had instructed him. "Lord Black," he spoke neutrally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You may call me uncle. You're Bella's brat, aren't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath stiffened involuntarily. The man waved it off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't mean offense – that's just how I remember you. You were
      a baby last time I saw you. In fact, I remember you screaming a
      lot. Gave me headaches you did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm... sorry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Black shrugged. "You were probably perfectly well-behaved
      most of the time – but I wouldn't remember, would I?" His voice
      turned quiet. "Your parents were there too, weren't they? Do they
      even know they had a kid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath swallowed. "No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His new uncle just nodded. "Cherish that. It means that even
      your irritating moments were good memories to them. At least you
      know your parents once loved you, which is far more than my brother
      and I ever had."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But they don't</em> now<em class="calibre8">.</em> Lesath forced away the
      lump in his throat. He shouldn't allow this man to make him
      vulnerable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you ask me to come here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Black nodded approvingly. "To the point, I see. Well
      then... do you know why I asked to be given a trial?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To... get free, Lord B- uncle?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man snorted. "Hardly. I was caught as a Death Eater, which
      carries a life sentence. I had no realistic hope of being released.
      I still don't know how it happened, although I guess it has
      something to do with the court suddenly being overrun by
      <em class="calibre8">Muggles</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath stayed quiet at the obvious distaste in the man's voice.
      Lord Potter – Harry – had warned him about this. Lord Regulus Black
      was not truly evil; he had served the Dark Lord at his parents'
      behest, but had recoiled from the bloodshed and futilely tried to
      escape. However, he <em class="calibre8">was</em> a true blood purist; Muggles, in
      his view, were little more than dogs. There was no reason to
      <em class="calibre8">hate</em> them, but you wouldn't let dogs, or people raised by
      dogs, have any say in how normal people lived their lives. The
      large Muggle-murder he was famous for had largely been an accident:
      he cared so little about Muggles that he simply hadn't noticed that
      they were in the line of fire when he sent his most powerful
      blasting curse at his brother's murderer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Lord Black continued. "My sole purpose was to preserve the
      Black bloodline and restore the family honor. If I died without an
      heir, our line would end – and to add insult to injury, we'd be
      disgraced as followers of a madman. But if I was officially
      convicted, I could at least clear my brother's name and exercise
      the Lord's right to appoint an heir."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath's heart suddenly started hammering wildly in his chest.
      Could the man be insinuating what he seemed to be insinuating? "But
      you were freed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True." His uncle shook his head sadly. "But my time is past.
      The Dementors took a lot from me; I lasted because I had a purpose,
      but I doubt I'll live long anymore, and I have no patience for a
      wife. Plus, I don't think I could adjust to the new politics
      anymore – something I hear <em class="calibre8">you</em> are quite adept at. You've
      done well for yourself, haven't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was the first time someone had ever said <em class="calibre8">that</em> to
      him. But surprisingly, there was even some truth in it – recently.
      Ever since his role on Dark Monday, people had looked at him
      differently. He'd spent the summer working for the DMLE – and
      occasionally for Muggle organizations – as a sort of messenger boy.
      He'd negotiated visiting rights with his parents. Children of
      "light" families were suddenly willing to talk to him, and there
      had been far less bullying this year. He'd even struck a tentative
      friendship with some of the other children who'd been in the
      makeshift Hogwarts orphanage, and those friendships had lasted in
      the school as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Black gave him a long look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You remind me a little of me, when I was your age." He smiled,
      briefly. "I'm offering to take you as my heir, Lesath, but you
      <em class="calibre8">can</em> refuse. I do have other options. But I hope you'll
      accept, because you're the best. I've looked through your
      files."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just a bastard..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All the better – it means that the Black family has first claim
      on you. You're my closest family – you and your cousin Nymphadora,
      but she's a half-blood, quite attached to her family name, and I
      doubt she'd even be interested – she already has her life planned
      out. I think you will do well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... What exactly does it <em class="calibre8">mean</em>?" He stalled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll give you the lessons in etiquette and politics my parents
      gave me. I'll expect you to behave in a manner befitting the Heir
      of a Noble and Most Ancient House. You'll make connections, learn
      to manage money, and when you're ready, you'll take up the
      Lordship." He paused briefly, staring away from Lesath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will not repeat my parents' mistakes," he added softly. "I
      won't try to force my beliefs on you. I won't even choose a wife
      for you, provided you at least marry a witch – unless you ask me
      to, of course. The most important thing is to preserve the family,
      and show a proud, strong face to the world. If that means adapting
      to current politics and ideas, so be it – Merlin knows I wouldn't
      be able to do it, but you're young and unmarred."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure I even <em class="calibre8">have</em> political ideas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not that much better. As you might know, I haven't had much
      chance to apply myself. But you're young, you have time. Form
      beliefs. Make connections. As the future Lord Black, you'll be
      invited to many parties as a matter of courtesy, and there's always
      discussion there. I'll teach you how to conduct yourself in the
      beginning, and in time, you'll learn from experience how to
      participate on a deeper level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Honestly, that sounded terrifying. Okay, a part of him would
      <em class="calibre8">really</em> love to see the faces of Carl Sloper and his
      cronies when they found out their former target was the future Lord
      of a Noble and Most Ancient House, but he couldn't do this, surely
      he couldn't do this. There was no way someone like <em class="calibre8">him</em>
      could take that kind of responsibility. Besides, he was sworn to a
      live of servitude – perhaps not formally, but he'd given his word,
      and that meant just as much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then... he had a pretty good idea what Lord Potter would
      say. <em class="calibre8">With this role, you can do a lot of good.</em> As Lord
      Black, he could formally ally their Houses, bring a key family vote
      to the Wizengamot... <em class="calibre8">As Lord Black</em>... his thoughts
      stumbled at the idea. That couldn't be him, not without someone
      telling him how to do everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aside from your responsibilities, of course," Lord Black
      continued, "you will be given all possible support, the formal
      backing of the House in conflicts, tutors if you need them; you'll
      be allowed to live in the Grimmauld house, have status roughly
      similar to that of the Malfoy heir, and of course when you're ready
      to take up the Lordship, you'll inherit the Black fortune. I
      believe it's currently about a hundred and seventy thousand
      Galleons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath fainted.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> chapter 4 (<em class="calibre8">A Black
      Trial</em>) has been expanded a bit – just look after the
      horizontal line!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
