<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 2: Rebuilding, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Rebuilding</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The world spun and gleamed, lightning crackling at the edges of
      vision while thunder roared at the sound of a whisper. The line
      between light and darkness blurred, the air distorting as time
      itself was caught up in the flight of particles, when stone fell
      upon stone and the very earth was infused with a sense of
      purpose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amidst a whirlwind of magic, a wizard of unparalleled power
      stood, weaving the threads of raw energy into something solid. Not
      building, but rather <em class="calibre8">growing</em> the castle from its
      foundations, Albus Dumbledore raised hallways, towers and empty
      spaces, the outer structure that would accommodate the greater
      magics that would support the architecture within. And in every
      part of the castle, in every room, wall, and even the loose stones,
      a tiny morsel of magic to contribute to the overall sentience
      instilled in the castle, that would allow the school to understand
      and adapt to the needs of the people living within it. Surrounding
      the castle, the land was sated with concentrated power, nurturing
      the manifestation of ghosts, and encouraging the growth of magical
      plants and creatures, and the lure of prophecies. The new Hogwarts
      grounds would be as grand as the old ones, and provide a safe
      living place to the many magical races and creatures that used to
      call Hogwarts their home as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Where once the four founders had built together, the old wizard
      now stood alone. There was much to be done, the work of weeks or
      even months, but he, more than anyone, understood the Hogwarts that
      had once been, and at last, after more than a century of life, he
      had learned the magics to reproduce it. None could help him, for
      Ignotus Peverell had sworn him to keep the potentially dangerous
      magics to himself, but it was a small price to pay. It might cost
      him most of the magic left in his body, but Hogwarts would be
      restored to its former glory. If he could help it – and he probably
      could – the new school year would even begin on time. Perhaps the
      work would not be finished yet, but at least the castle should be
      inhabitable by September the first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had not been an easy decision, but the school would be remade
      exactly as it had been. Four great Houses, not three as he once
      would have chosen. For decades, Slytherin House had been a fertile
      ground for bigotry and intolerance, evidenced in the worst way when
      its members had flocked en masse to the Dark Lord's call. But
      before that, Slytherin had a proud history, and produced many
      outstanding witches and wizards of the light. With Voldemort gone,
      with the country's power structure changing as it had, there was
      hope for the House once more. Severus, certainly, would do all he
      could to bring his House back to its former glory. He deserved to
      be given the chance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nor would there be a fifth House. True, he was doing a founder's
      work, but it would feel wrong to lend his name to a part of the new
      Hogwarts. Although – he ruefully admitted to himself – it would be
      a dear wish if, like Godric Gryffindor, his life would be
      remembered primarily for his work with Hogwarts rather than for the
      many wars he had fought. And he could just imagine Minerva's firm
      voice telling him that he had every right to found a Dumbledore
      House, and picture her expression when he put her in charge of
      it...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh, Minerva.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of all the recent war's losses, hers was the one he felt most
      keenly. The sobering presence of his deputy headmistress had been a
      constant solace in his life for many decades, and she had been
      closer to him than anyone still alive. She, of all people, had been
      supposed to survive him, not die a senseless, pointless death at
      the hand of some misguided cretin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a bitter irony that, now that the wars of his life were
      finally over, the conviction that had carried him through all those
      years was shattered beneath him. For all the friends he had lost,
      for all the allies he'd sacrificed, there had been the one comfort
      that, some day, he would be able to apologize to them. In his quiet
      moments, he had sometimes wondered what it would be like, when the
      time finally came to lay down his head and go to his rest, to see
      everyone again on their next great adventure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was <em class="calibre8">nothing</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no afterlife where his loved ones might be waiting for
      him. He would never see Aberforth again and be able to beg for his
      forgiveness. Nor Ariana, nor mother or father. Oh, he could use the
      resurrection stone, but it would be a paltry thing, and if he took
      it once, would he ever be able to give it up? Or worse – and even
      knowing that the first argument <em class="calibre8">should</em> weigh high enough
      on his mind to stop him, it was this fear above all that turned him
      away from the temptation – what if they did not forgive him? They
      had no true life, no capacity for change. If Aberforth had hated
      his brother when he died, which he had every reason to do, he could
      never be persuaded to feel differently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus had kept up his outward demeanor, showing nothing of his
      inner turmoil to the people around him. The world was a fragile
      place, and he was needed still, perhaps more so now than ever
      before, to guide the merge of the magical and Muggle civilizations.
      There were others who might, but in Britain few were experienced
      and respected enough to do the work that needed doing in these
      first few years, averting the disasters that might come from
      sudden, explosive progress, while not blocking the potential good.
      For all that he might wish to rest, his duty was to wear the mantel
      of a leader, and that meant that no one could see that something
      inside him had broken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He gazed ahead, shaping the magic around him with only half a
      mind. One thin strand of hope remained. Harry Potter believed, as
      did Ignotus Peverell, that death could be defeated. That one day,
      even those who had gone before could be restored to a body. It
      seemed impossible; a fancy dream, and more than a little dark
      besides. And yet, that dream was all he had left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was not a hope for himself. Even now, death held no fear for
      him, for he had lived his life, and he knew that soon it would be
      enough. He had spoken true when the Boy-Who-Lived had asked him
      this question as a hypothetical. The idea of death, which he had
      once met with calm and even some joy, felt bitter to him now, but
      even so, he was still old and weary; he had no wish to linger
      longer than he must. But if those who had died before their time,
      at least, could be restored, then that would be a great
      comfort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed to himself. <em class="calibre8">Wouldn't it be nice?</em> It was not a
      hope he could believe in. But perhaps it didn't matter. The
      Peverell-Potter dream would progress, or it would not, without his
      help. His task was to make the world the best place it could be for
      the people who still lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that, he thought with a small smile as he poured his magic
      into the castle where the clock tower grew before his eyes, was
      something he could do.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
