<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 4: A Black Trial, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: A Black Trial</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> In chapter 106 / 26 of Following
      the Phoenix, we hear a little about Sirius Black, who has granted
      the Hogwarts delegation access to his parental home in exchange for
      a trial. There wasn't really an opportunity to resolve this
      particular plot bunny in the main text, so here's the tale! There
      will be a bit more background on this in chapter 15.</p>

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">August 1992.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The eighty-ninth session of the two-hundred-and-eight
      Wizengamot is convened at the request of Lord Sirius Black. Lord
      Black was incarcerated in Azkaban following his arrest in nineteen
      eighty one and, due to wartime circumstances, not awarded a trial
      at the time. Today, we will correct this oversight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around at the faces in the Most Ancient Hall. The
      three Muggle judges who had been assigned to participate in
      criminal cases in the Wizengamot looked a little ill at ease in
      their very first session. The magical members showed a variety of
      expressions, mixed between curiosity, boredom, anger, resentment
      and excitement. It was unclear who, if any, bought into some of the
      many conspiracy theories regarding Black. More of them had probably
      accepted the narrative that he had been Voldemort's right-hand man,
      which the Daily Prophet had spouted despite the complete lack of
      any evidence for the claim. Harry hoped that the Muggle judges
      could manage to instill some sense into the proceedings, but he'd
      made sure to be there anyway, just in case. It was his first
      appearance in the Wizengamot since the meeting where he was given
      power of negotiation. There had been many dirty looks, but nobody
      had contested that he had the right to be here today, at the trial
      of the man who had once been named his godfather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A click of the Chief Warlock's rod silenced the muttering that
      had risen up. "Let Sirius, Lord of the Noble and Most Ancient House
      of Black, be brought in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The doors opened, and a gaunt man was floated in, flanked by six
      Aurors. His hands and feet were chained, and there was a band
      around his neck that, Harry knew, was designed to non-lethally
      incapacitate him if not deactivated every five minutes by a
      recognized authority. He was pale and skinny, his eyes sunken and
      his hair matted, even after four months away from Azkaban. Of
      course, Nurmengard was hardly the best facility to recover from
      years of Dementor exposure, and the move towards more humane
      prisons had been slow. For clothes, he wore little but a sleeveless
      gray robe, the Dark Mark clearly visible on his left arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sirius Black," Albus Dumbledore boomed when the wizard had been
      lowered and chained into the metal chair. "You have asked this body
      to pass judgment for your crimes. To wit: that you knowingly joined
      a terrorist organization; that you willingly betrayed the location
      of James, Lily and Harry Potter to your master, in the full
      understanding that it would most likely lead to their deaths; that
      you murdered Petter Pettigrew and twelve Muggle bystanders. What do
      you have to say for yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slowly, ever so slowly, the main in chains looked up, taking a
      deep breath before he spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not Sirius," he croaked. He brought his gaze to the Chief
      Warlock's face, a haunted look in his eyes. "I'm not Sirius. My
      name is <em class="calibre8">Regulus</em> Black."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry silently groaned. <em class="calibre8">Of course</em> the second-most
      famous Death Eater, who never got a trial, would turn out to
      secretly be the long-lost twin brother of the real culprit or
      something like that. <em class="calibre8">Or</em>, Slytherin quickly filled in,
      <em class="calibre8">Sirius Black never did anything wrong, and was wrongly accused
      of the crimes of his Death Eater lookalike.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shot a glance at the Muggle judges, who were showing a mix of
      confusion, shock and outrage, not just at the prisoner's statement
      but at the fact that it wasn't immediately dismissed as nonsense.
      Even the Muggle police, who did not have access to truth serums,
      mind-reading, memory-viewing and permission to use torture in
      select cases, would generally be able to confirm an important
      prisoner's name before sending them to court, let alone imprisoning
      them. It would take some time to get used to the way things were
      done in the magical courts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry silently smirked as he sat back and relaxed. <em class="calibre8">This is
      going to be interesting.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The prisoner sat silently as an Auror performed the
      identification spells, and in a clipped voice informed the
      Wizengamot that he was, in fact, Regulus Black. An accomplished
      wizard might have tricked those spells, but not after ten years in
      Azkaban, bereft of a wand and kept in a magic-suppressing
      environment afterwards. Besides, Gringotts could confirm his
      identity with a simple blood test; the Black family had registered
      all their children with the bank.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But he's dead!" Someone on the benches gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The prisoner just turned his head towards the man. He didn't
      know him, but that didn't mean much, anymore. There were vast gaps
      in his memory, although it was still surprisingly coherent for the
      most part; he couldn't remember anymore, of course, but he
      suspected that there had been preciously little happiness in his
      life to begin with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not," he said simply. Then, for good measure, he added:
      "Would you prefer to ask the goblins, or would it be enough if I
      told you where to find Sirius's body?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence, as – hopefully – his message sunk
      in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another, an elderly man spoke up. "Excuse me, but not everyone
      here is well-versed in the composition of the Noble Houses. Is this
      a relative of Sirius Black?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A gray-haired woman stepped forward. Madam Bones, the Director
      of Magical Law Enforcement. She had spoken to him yesterday to
      inform him of the details of his trial. "Regulus Black is the
      younger brother of Sirius Black. He was a known You-Know-Who
      supporter, but was <em class="calibre8">supposedly</em> executed by the Dark Lord in
      seventy-nine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh yes, and quite the spectacular public execution that
      was.</em> His parents and grandfather had been tortured and
      executed, along with some lowlife polyjuiced to take on Regulus's
      appearance. But Regulus himself had been kept by the Dark Lord's
      side, under the Imperius Curse: he was a talented spellcrafter, and
      therefore too useful to dispose of. Not that that had saved him
      from his punishment for attempting to flee his master's service, of
      course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But surely the Aurors tested..." Another spoke, trailing of.
      "Were they so much alike?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," the prisoner snarled. "My brother and I never had much in
      common, but in <em class="calibre8">looks</em> we were rather similar." <em class="calibre8">At least
      similar</em> enough <em class="calibre8">for a bunch of incompetent Aurors who knew
      neither of us personally, and couldn't be bothered with the
      investigative work.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if he's not Sirius Black..." A woman spoke slowly, "then he
      couldn't have betrayed the Potters, could he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course not," Regulus bit. "And nor did my brother, for that
      matter." He glared up at the Chief Warlock. "You never figured it
      out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Old Dumbledore visibly hesitated. "Sirius Black was the Potters'
      Secret-Keeper. So they all told me, and I personally confirmed
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not <em class="calibre8">the</em> Secret-Keeper. <em class="calibre8">A</em> Secret-Keeper. The
      other one was Peter Pettigrew. A <em class="calibre8">backup</em>, in case Sirius
      was killed. He was also, in case you were still wondering, the spy
      in your precious Order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't much of a pleasure to see the Chief Warlock struck
      dumb, but it would do for now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The gray-haired woman – Madam Bones – cleared her throat. "I
      would propose adjourning until after we have completed
      interrogations –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh Merlin, no. Not another delay.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– but I can see that this is not in line with the wishes of the
      Wizengamot. Thus, Lord Black, would you be willing to give us a bit
      more detail?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Regulus couldn't suppress a feral grin. He'd been waiting for
      this moment for over a decade. "Oh yes, Madam Director. With
      pleasure."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
