<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 7: The Defense Professor, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: The Defense Professor</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello Professor Riddle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The specter raised an eyebrow at him. "I don't think I've heard
      that one before. How much time has passed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the 27th of August, still 1992."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. And have you managed to destroy the world yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope. Are you going to ask me that every time I summon
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite possibly." The specter shrugged. "How many times have you
      summoned me now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "This is only the second time." Dumbledore had
      been adamant that Harry should not lightly talk to the soul of
      Voldemort. Thinking about it, Harry had reluctantly agreed;
      spending a good ten minutes considering all the ways he could
      accomplish malicious goals just by talking had significantly
      increased his threat assessment of the stone. That was also why
      there were several hidden cameras around, Hermione was watching
      from a different room to step in should he find himself getting
      manipulated, and Dumbledore was on call, <em class="calibre8">just in case</em>.
      "You don't remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Defense Professor looked liked he'd bitten something
      unpleasant. "Bits and pieces. I remember you calling me before, but
      those recollections are too hazy to be sure. It <em class="calibre8">is</em> most
      inconvenient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It'll certainly make it harder for him to manipulate
      us,</em> Slytherin suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Assuming he isn't lying,</em> inner Moody pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ravenclaw sighed. <em class="calibre8">Need</em> <em class="calibre8">I say it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Experimenting would require repeatedly summoning someone,
      probably with some time in between,</em> Hufflepuff said quietly.
      <em class="calibre8">What about leaving the death at rest?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That's a Dumbledore thing,</em> Slytherin shrugged. <em class="calibre8">We
      can ignore his silly qualms.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But he</em> is right, Hufflepuff objected. <em class="calibre8">A single
      occasion to say goodbye and finish off your affairs is one thing,
      but it seems cruel to repeatedly call someone back in a form that
      doesn't allow them to interact with the world and even gives them
      mental impairments. We shouldn't do that unless it's
      necessary.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Professor McGonagall would probably be happy to help,</em>
      Gryffindor piped up. <em class="calibre8">But remember that we can't trust Riddle no
      matter</em> what <em class="calibre8">comes out of those experiments</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry to hear that," Harry said, not sure whether he meant
      it. "But I have a question about your life <em class="calibre8">before</em> death,
      which I hope you will answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why exactly should I help you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed irritatedly. "We've been over this last time. The
      more you genuinely help me, the more willing I am to ask you for
      help, which gives you a greater chance to stop me before I do
      something stupid that would end up destroying humanity and thereby
      preventing your eventual resurrection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle shot him a calculating glare, then shrugged. "Oh, I
      suppose. What do you want to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your curse on the defense professorship. Hogwarts is being
      rebuilt on a different location. Will that be enough to get rid of
      the curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hmmmm, no, I don't think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glared at him. "Then... how <em class="calibre8">can</em> we get rid of it?
      The current Hogwarts generation may be moderately well-prepared
      after your teaching, but it would be really nice to not have the
      same issue again in seven years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle smirked. "I suppose it would, at that. Tell me, Mr.
      Potter, if you imagine yourself in my place, how would <em class="calibre8">you</em>
      have crafted the curse?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, thinking. "Well, the <em class="calibre8">obvious</em> thing would
      have been to place some kind of nasty curse on whoever the Hogwarts
      wards recognize as the Defense Professor – with Salazar Slytherin's
      knowledge, you can probably do that. But that would be a little
      <em class="calibre8">too</em> obvious, and Professor Dumbledore said the curse still
      activated when he renamed the course to Defensive Magic for two
      years."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not try to reverse-engineer the existing, Mr. Potter," the
      specter said contemptuously. "I asked how <em class="calibre8">you</em> would do
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If he were still alive, there's no way I would tell him
      something like</em> that. Harry thought. <em class="calibre8">It might give him
      ideas.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Technically, while he was still alive, you</em> did <em class="calibre8">tell
      him things like that all the time,</em> his inner critic pointed
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Fine, fine,</em> Harry grumbled. <em class="calibre8">At least he's dead now,
      and this is something he obviously already thought
      through.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd consider possible attacks. The obvious thing the Headmaster
      could do was to rename the course. Or even leave Defense Against
      the Dark Arts as an existing course, perhaps hire some dying
      volunteer or a ghost to be sure, and add a new course called
      calligraphy whose teacher just happens to give interesting
      instruction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or employ Binns in the position and hire an Auror to teach
      'history', yes," Riddle said dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if that shouldn't work... No, if you want your curse not to
      be fooled by the Binns swap you couldn't just curse DADA along with
      all courses added after the curse was placed. And there's also the
      possibility to just not swear the Defense Professor into the
      wards... So if you want to get whoever is really teaching Defense,
      you'd check the person in the castle who's doing, or being close
      to, most defensive magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A good idea," Riddle conceded. "However, a curse like that
      wouldn't catch incompetent professors. the ones who don't do much
      teaching."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wouldn't that accomplish your goals anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Arguably, yes, although I'd rather not have an incompetent
      stuck in the position I was hoping to claim for myself when
      necessary. However, more problematically, if incompetent teachers
      were left untouched while the ones doing their job properly were
      cursed, it would point the Headmaster to exactly this situation,
      which would make it easier to trace the curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And even if he couldn't, he could just get a dying volunteer to
      be near regularly scheduled amounts of defensive magic, I
      suppose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite. Or he might hire a defense professor who is never
      actually in class; you can do a lot over a distance, using for
      instance communication mirrors, especially if classes are
      supervised by a rotating group of assistants."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. So you want to catch whoever is doing, or supposed to be
      doing, the Defense Professor's job, no matter what their job title
      is..." He drew a blank. Magic <em class="calibre8">was</em> intent-based in many
      ways, true, but for all he'd learned so far, it wasn't
      <em class="calibre8">that</em> intent-based. You couldn't put human-level
      understanding in a spell. "Honestly, this is starting to sound like
      the best way to do it would just be to manually curse whoever is
      teaching each year. Wait, is that what you did?" <em class="calibre8">That</em>
      would <em class="calibre8">explain why neither Dumbledore nor any of the
      curse-breakers he hired has ever been able to find it...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle smiled at that. "You're getting close. But while I'm sure
      it would have been amusing for a few years, I <em class="calibre8">do</em> have
      better things to spend my time on. Besides that, I couldn't enter
      the castle without detection, and it's not so easy to curse someone
      from a distance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... you got someone else to do it. Someone who's already
      there." He gasped as the obvious answer clicked into place. "A
      House Elf. There's hundreds of them in the castle, they stay there
      for all their lives, and nobody ever pays attention to them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And when Hogwarts was destroyed," Tom Riddle said softly. "the
      dottery old fool saved all the Elves, didn't he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He did," Harry groaned. Not that Harry disagreed with that
      decision. "So is that the answer then? You put a House Elf under
      the Imperius?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not the Imperius Curse, no. It interferes with creativity. But
      House Elves were created to do as they are told, and the Hogwarts
      Elves are not bound to any individual, but rather to the school. I
      merely needed to... <em class="calibre8">convince</em> an Elf that creatively making
      sure that something bad would happen to the Defense Professor every
      year was in the school's interests. I do believe the Elf ended up
      quite mad, but Dumbledore would never send him away
      regardless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And a House Elf has access to all the teachers' food, to
      their laundry, to their mail; they can get into your room while
      you're sleeping without alarm. It wouldn't be at all hard to
      administer all kinds of interesting potions over a period of
      months, or otherwise to find secrets you don't want people to know
      and leak them in the most disastrous way possible. And given that
      the Elf would have months to plan and prepare, it wouldn't even be
      that hard to make it seems like an accident each time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess you got him to back off last year?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I made it clear that something bad was going to happen to
      'Professor Quirrell' without his help, yes. Anyway, if you get rid
      of the Elf, the so-called 'curse' will disappear and that should be
      the end of your Defense Against the Dark Arts problems. Unless the
      Headmaster practices his usual amount of judgment in the hiring
      decision, of course – I reject the blame if he sees fit to appoint
      another half-giant, werewolf or escaped convict to the
      position."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He mentioned an Auror, actually. One of the former Azkaban
      guards. Hermione says he's really nice, although I'm not sure I can
      believe that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle shrugged. "So, was that all, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was the main thing for now. Although I would still like
      that list of things you did to avoid the apocalypse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Riddle smirked. "You want a <em class="calibre8">list</em>? Well then, I hope you
      brought a large amount of parchment."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
