<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Following the Phoenix - Flashes - Following the Phoenix - Flashes Chapter 9: September 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Following the Phoenix - Flashes"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 9: September 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">September 1992.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael looked at the faces collected before him. A few were
      eager, most skeptical. Some were looking downright repulsed. Many
      of the "purebloods" in the class were not at all pleased to be
      taught by a Muggle, and were unlikely to be receptive to the
      material in the first place. They were reluctant high-school
      students, forced to be here, rather than the mostly willing college
      students he usually taught.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Why exactly am I doing this again</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could have just gone back to his work. The freedom of
      information regarding magic had not brought all that many changes
      to the average person's daily life yet. He could ignore the whole
      thing, go back to his research, and teach people who actually
      <em class="calibre8">wanted</em> to be taught. He could be rid of magic, mostly,
      live like a normal person. But he couldn't go back to his old life,
      because one very important part of it was missing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was still hope. Petunia's body was perfectly preserved,
      and Harry was convinced that he could bring his mother back. But as
      it was, that just put Michael in a strange limbo state where he
      could neither move on, nor back to what he had had. He didn't want
      to take up his usual routine, only to come home to an empty house
      every night. For the sake of his sanity, he needed a change.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was why he had requested a one-year sabattical, and
      accepted Professor Dumbledore's job offer. This year, all classes
      would follow the same curriculum, which would save him preparation
      time and leave him with plenty of leisure to study magic. Just
      because he was taking a one-year break didn't mean he was going to
      put his career on hold, after all. Little fondness thought he felt
      for magic, it was clear that funding opportunities in the near
      future would be significantly better for those who understand its
      basics. Why should he not be one of the pioneers of magical
      bio-chemistry?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The clock ticked over to 10:15. Michael cleared his throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome, all, to your first class of Science and
      Rationality."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Li beamed at the class before him. He knew he had some enormous
      boots to fill, but at least he wasn't secretly the shade of Lord
      Voldemort, which surely counted in his favor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, class! I am Professor Xiaoguang Li, your new
      Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. You may address me by my
      first name, but I <em class="calibre8">will</em> take points for pronouncing it
      incorrectly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was going to enjoy this.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Lisa Fournier looked at the class of English students. She
      hadn't expected to land a job as a teacher – her subject of mastery
      was well-covered in France, and, despite the lack of people with
      any grasp of the subject across the channel, the position had not
      been expected to come available for some centuries. Well, she
      wasn't one to look a gift horse in the mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome to your first class of History! Yes, that is
      <em class="calibre8">history</em>, not <em class="calibre8">history of magic</em>. This semester we
      will cover the origins of earth, early civilizations such as
      ancient Mesopotamia, Egypt, China, Ireland and Greece, and we will
      end with known history and common speculations about Atlantis. Next
      semester we will move on the Roman Empire, celtic and germanic
      culture, towards the early Middle Ages..."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
