<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 13 Lucius-Justice, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 13: Lucius-Justice</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">First Private Meeting, Lucius Malfoy, Part II. Justice</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After knowing some important secrets, Harry realized the
      supposed topic of this meeting was actually Lucius' imprisonment.
      That sneaky snake was pretty good at distractions. "<em class="calibre8">Lord
      Malfoy, I undersstand that you do not want what you did to become
      Draco'ss weakness later. With that in mind, what crimess did you
      commit?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' face tightened, then went back to neutral. "<em class="calibre8">Lord
      Potter, ass for the ensuing legal processs, I need to clarify that
      I did not conduct all the crimess that I wass accussed
      of.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did think some of the things people said about Lucius
      might be exaggerated, but he was still a murderer among other
      atrocities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' face showed a hint of frustration. "<em class="calibre8">Firsst, I have
      never violated any of the sso-called rape victimss, let alone other
      crimess of ssuch nature. Karkaroff hass a tasste for strong boyss,
      not me.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From what Draco told him in the train station, Harry had thought
      the multiple-rape part of Lucius' crimes were quite likely to be
      true, but since the man had denied it in Parseltongue - well,
      Lucius was rich, handsome, young and single, he didn't need
      violence for his sexual desires; or, Lord Malfoy had done it more
      discreetly, so no victim actually remembered anything wrong had
      happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And if Harry were to believe everything being said about Lucius'
      sexual life, then the senior Malfoy was both a male and a female,
      both a veela and a vampire, both gay and straight, both a sadist
      and a masochist, impregnated by
      Voldemort/Grindelwald/Dumbledore/Abraxas Malfoy/fellow Death
      Eaters/his time-turned self and gave birth to Draco himself… When
      the rumors got to the point where Albus Dumbledore abducted
      Narcissa Malfoy because he was jealous and wanted Lucius all for
      himself, Harry felt it had gone too far and put his foot down on
      the juicy stories in <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> and other major
      magazines. Unfortunately, the <em class="calibre8">Quibbler</em> was still
      publishing stories such as how Voldemort had a secret daughter with
      Lucius, and disguised her as a boy named Draco, the Dark Lord
      failed in his experiment to make Draco a unicorn, and Hermione was
      revived as a partial unicorn by accident. Harry could still see
      that Draco needed to exercise extra self-restraint not to hex Luna
      Lovegood while the girl was saying "Draco, I am so sorry that you
      lost your father's child, but miscarriage isn't the end of the
      world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Harry realized why Lucius might appear to be frustrated
      upon this part of his crimes: some of the more believable part of
      the stories could be somewhat difficult to explain to the wife that
      he hadn't seen for eleven years. And soon, Lucius would be locked
      up, so he probably wouldn't have much chance to repair his
      relationships with Narcissa for, say, the next several hundred
      years. Harry didn't mean to cause marriage issues in Death Eater
      families, but they should have thought of that before they teared
      other families apart by their atrocities. But it could be hard on
      Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And crap, isn't Karkaroff the Headmaster of Durmstrang? If
      what Lucius said is true, Karkaroff needs to be removed from his
      position ASAP.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed inwardly. "<em class="calibre8">I have no intention to put anything
      you didn't do on you. As for Karkaroff, evidence?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Karkaroff tesstified that I wass in charge of the raid that
      killed Madam Boness' younger brother'ss whole family except the
      newborn girl Ssusan Boness, and he alsso claimed that I violated
      her great-nephew before killing him. Actually, Karkaroff himsself
      wass the leader of that raid. I wass not even there.</em>" Lucius
      looked quite indignant. "<em class="calibre8">And I wass not in the raid that
      sslaughtered Monroe family, either. Bellatrix led that
      one.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was surprised to hear that information in Parseltongue.
      Those two were the most notorious murders in Lucius' record. Harry
      could understand why Karkaroff would want to put the Bones case on
      someone else, but Karkaroff didn't have much motive to frame Lucius
      on the Monroe case, did he? So Harry asked. "<em class="calibre8">Tell me more about
      the Monroe casse.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">The Dark Lord ordered uss to kill everyone in the House of
      Monroe including the housse elvess before David Monroe arrived.
      I,</em>" Lucius said reluctantly, a bit of confusion in his eyes,
      "<em class="calibre8">I did not undersstand why we should leave the sstrongesst of
      the family unsscathed. And eradicating old familiess wass not my
      plan, either. Sso I gave my leader possition to Bellatrix in the
      lasst minute.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now Harry saw why Lucius wasn't in the Bones case or the Monroe
      case: <em class="calibre8">Lucius picked his enemies carefully. If they were ordered
      to kill a whole family but to leave the strongest and the youngest
      unscathed, Lucius would not do it. He didn't want to make strong
      mortal enemies, and he didn't want to fall into literary traps. A
      true snake indeed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Harry remembered the first murdered that stroke him two
      years ago in Diagonal Alley. "<em class="calibre8">How about the writer Yermy Wibble
      and hiss family?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To that question, Lucius reluctantly nodded. "<em class="calibre8">It was my
      firsst raid in the Death Eaterss. Bellatrix led the raid, I killed
      Mrss. Wibble under Bellatrix'ss wand point.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Did you torture them?</em>" Harry remembered the empty
      skins. "<em class="calibre8">Or sskin them?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' face showed a hint of disgust. "<em class="calibre8">No, I did not.
      Grayback ate the insside of the three female Wibbless in front of
      Yermy Wibble, and then Yermy himsself, even Bellatrix was ssick of
      that. And I tried to sstay away from Grayback ever
      ssince.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to suppress his shudder. "<em class="calibre8">And other
      cassess?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Lord Potter, to my undersstanding of British wizarding
      law,</em>" Lucius' face was neutral as well as his voice, "<em class="calibre8">I am
      not required to prove that I am guilty. But I can asssure you, the
      number of people that I killed or tortured wass far lesss than what
      people accussed me of. For example, I am ssure that the hex that I
      ssent wass different from the one that took Fabian Prewett'ss life,
      but the battle field wass too chaotic for me to point out who did
      it. And I never tortured people for pleassure.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry listened, and an image of a Blue Krait silently hiding in
      the darkness emerged in his mind: careful, calculating, patient,
      dangerous, and deadly. It picked its victims carefully, so that
      there would be less retributions afterwards. The snake didn't
      strike for fun, but only because the kill was necessary. Lucius'
      murder and torture counts might indeed be smaller than what people
      thought, but that was because Lucius perceived excessive violence
      as unnecessary and time-consuming, and he evaded the powerful
      enemies carefully. Harry doubted, with a few exceptions where
      Lucius couldn't control the situation, none of Lucius' victims had
      strong family members left alive to revenge for their loved
      ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Lord Malfoy, I undersstand the law. But I do need to know,
      how many did you kill?</em>" Harry hesitated whether he should use
      Draco's name again, but decided against it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius inhaled, exhaled. "<em class="calibre8">Seven to nine. The firsst
      posssible one wass before I joined the Death Eaterss, I wass under
      falsse memory charmss that time, sso I am not really ssure if I had
      actually killed the muggle. After becoming a Death Eater, I
      participated in a total of sseven raidss, killed six people in all
      the raidss. And I have unexpectedly encountered aurorss twice,
      killed one or two. I am not ssure whether it wass me who killed
      Gideon Prewett.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, wait.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You were under falsse memory charmss in your posssibly
      firsst kill?</em>" Harry asked in surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius answered reluctantly. "<em class="calibre8">The firsst killing cursse wass
      imposssibly hard for mosst people. My tutor memory charmed me to
      think that the muggle he captured killed my mother, sso that I
      could hate the muggle enough to usse the killing cursse. But ssince
      I wass memory charmed anyway, I wass not even ssure the entire
      sscene ever happened. And I sstill felt it extremely difficult to
      kill Mrss. Wibble when under Bellatrix'ss wand point, sso I
      probably did not kill the muggle.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fought down a chill in his spine. Whether Lucius actually
      killed the muggle or not, if Harry were not here to intervene, that
      would be a lesson that Lucius would arrange for Draco to receive,
      and Draco's soul/mind would be cracked because of the lesson. Harry
      had to keep Draco closer to protect him from THAT.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And seven to nine murders, only the first one might be
      forced or forged.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry focused his attention, and hissed. "<em class="calibre8">My ssuggesstion
      would be fifty yearss for each account of murder. You might argue
      for the one you committed under the wand point of Bellatrix that
      your hand wass forced, but ssince you did ssign up for the Death
      Eaterss yoursself, it might still account for thirty
      yearss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Upon hearing the sentence suggestion of three hundred and thirty
      years, Lucius' face ashened. He opened his mouth, and closed again.
      After several seconds of hesitation, Lucius argued for himself.
      "<em class="calibre8">Wouldn't my contributionss to the general public be counted as
      a reason for shorter time?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had always been furious toward the injustice in both
      muggle and magical legal systems where rich people could get a
      lesser sentence or even walk free, and the poor had to serve the
      full time. Harry hissed. "<em class="calibre8">No, gold cannot buy the law, not any
      more.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' eyes flinched a bit upon Harry's wrath, but his voice
      was steady. "<em class="calibre8">Lord Potter, I meant my contribution in the
      Unbreakable Vow.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, that. That's actually a valid argument. Even though
      Lucius was forced to be the binder for the Unbreakable Vow, his
      magic was still vital for the Vow to stand. Even if only 0.01% of
      the Vow could be attributed to Lucius, the number of people Lucius
      potentially saved…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry did a quick mental calculation: <em class="calibre8">0.01% times six
      billion people on earth, times the four incidences where Harry
      could have destroyed the world without the Vow, the number is 2.4
      million.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wanted to argue further for the compulsory nature of
      Lucius' involvement, but Ravenclaw quickly pointed out: <em class="calibre8">hey,
      even though we might have tricked Lucius a bit at the time in
      Gringotts, if Lucius had not agreed to participate in the deal and
      returned all our money of his own free will, and if he didn't
      enforce the changes in Hogwarts and elsewhere, Voldemort would not
      have picked Lucius as the binder.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hufflepuff backed Ravenclaw up. <em class="calibre8">Lucius did treat Bones,
      Crouch, and Longbottom fairly after he signed the deal as far as we
      know.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gryffindor argued against them: <em class="calibre8">Lucius also went to the
      graveyard that night with his own free will. Our priority is to
      protect Draco from Lucius, so we should lock Lucius up as long as
      possible, and ban all communications.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Are you sure the reason you want a long prison sentence and
      a ban on communication is not that YOU want to find an excuse to
      further manipulate Draco? I am sure Draco would want to write to
      his father and visit him sometimes.</em> Hufflepuff countered
      Gryffindor. <em class="calibre8">Plus, a man who has saved 2.4 million people and
      murdered seven doesn't deserve to be cut off from his family.
      Ravenclaw, multiplication backup?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gryffindor smirked triumphantly. <em class="calibre8">Ah ha, I knew you would
      argue that. In that sense, Voldemort should be a saint, since more
      than 99% of the Unbreakable Vow should be attributed to him. Anyone
      want to argue against that?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Errr…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wanted to give up. His inner characters had never been
      quite right ever since the Azkaban breakout.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">A smirking Gryffindor? What should Slytherin do,
      then?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin suggested timely, <em class="calibre8">we should let Madam Bones
      sentence Lucius for three hundred and thirty years, and add some
      more years for things like torture, illegal animagus, money
      laundering, etc., only allow him to communicate with Draco with our
      consent, and monitor all their exchanges. This way, Lucius would
      alway be eager to use his mind and knowledge to our service, and we
      can make sure that Lucius won't have any bad influences on
      Draco.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We want a FRIEND!</em> Hufflepuff screamed. <em class="calibre8">Not a
      manipulated minion.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry needed a pencil and paper to figure this out. And, oh, the
      Vow. Harry needed to ask Hermione's opinion as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Lord Malfoy, I need more time to decide. Vow
      requiress.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius' face turned grey when he heard "<em class="calibre8">Vow requiress</em>".
      The man's voice betrayed some nervousness that he had never shown
      in front of Harry before. "<em class="calibre8">Pleasse take all the time you need,
      Lord Potter.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, opened the suitcase door behind him, and called
      for Severus.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
