<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 15 Private Meeting, Severus, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: Private Meeting</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">4:02 pm, June 24th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Second Private Meeting, Severus Snape</p>

      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat on his personal couch - which did not look anywhere
      near a throne, just a regular muggle single person couch colored in
      Ravenclaw blue - and watched as Severus closed the suitcase door
      for the three Malfoys inside. When the ex-Potions master started to
      apply privacy spells toward the suitcase, Harry couldn't help but
      to ask, "Professor Snape, I didn't know that you are such good
      friends with the Malfoys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus finished his spells, then turned to Harry and hissed.
      "<em class="calibre8">I v-will sspeak truth in human lan-language. Too
      dif-ficult.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. That was a good idea for communication.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus took a seat on the couch across from Harry on the other
      side of a small table, and said. "As for your information, I wasn't
      this close with the Malfoys before. And that is one of the things
      that I need to tell you today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus began to recount everything happened after he woke
      up from Voldemort's Hyakuju montauk curse. "After the pain on my
      Dark Mark woke me up from the hallucination and then subdued, I
      realized that the Dark Lord must have temporarily returned and was
      vanquished again. I initially wanted to contact Albus by my
      patronus to see if he needed any help, yet I found my patronus
      couldn't find him. I wanted to contact you, then I realized that I
      shouldn't try, because that might create a paradox if I wanted to
      go back in time to help you. Then I heard the explosion sound
      coming from the Forbidden Forest, and guessed that your hand might
      be involved. I decided to turn back an hour and check what happened
      in the Forbidden Forest, and to see if I could help. In order to
      facilitate my search in the forest, mostly against magical
      concealments, I -" The ex-Potions master cleared his throat and
      stared down hard at Harry. "I turned into my animagus form, and
      used my echolocation system to detect any discrepancies between
      visual and auditory images."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry used a whole second to understand what Severus really
      meant by "echolocation system" and "auditory images", then he had
      to use his perfect occlumency barrier to fight down his hysterical
      laughter, because, well, judging from Severus' stare, he might
      murder the Boy-Who-Lived right here and right now if Harry dared to
      laugh out loud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The resident bat in the dungeon is actually a BAT
      animagus!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew it was wrong to laugh at people's animagus form,
      which mostly reflected one's nature, but this was simply too
      hilarious, even his Hufflepuff side was laughing with tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry finally managed to stop the laughing self behind the
      occlumency barrier, Severus already began to describe his
      unbelievable joy upon seeing the reconstruction of the Dark Lord's
      body with only blood and Hermione's body with only flesh. "It was
      then that I finally realized why both purebloods and muggles have
      the same custom as to preserve the deceased's hair, only that
      wizards would use magic to do the job better. It must be some
      reminiscent ritual from an era where resurection was quite common,
      and people could be revived with only a part of their body
      preserved. And luckily, I have your mother's hair preserved, as
      well as my own mother's."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's heart sank. He had hoped against hope that Severus had
      stolen Lily's body or her head, and magically preserved it over the
      years. But no, it was only Lily's hair, which had no brain and no
      mind. Tears began to well up in Harry's eyes, and his lips quivered
      as he barely managed to speak. "Professor Snape, it doesn't, it
      doesn't actually work like that. You have to keep their brain cold
      immediately after their death, preserve the brain, and work from
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus looked at Harry as if in shock. The man's voice lost its
      usual drawl, running rapidly as if searching for some alternative
      explanation. "But no, it, it - the Dark Lord only used his
      preserved blood to construct his own body. It doesn't need the
      brain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The, the Dark Lord had horcruxes, he used h-horcruxes to
      preserve his mind beyond death." Harry choked a bit. "And you, you
      saved Lucius' head, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, I -" Severus looked at Harry in dawning horror, as if hope
      and happiness were crushed into dust in his black eyes, but the
      ex-Potions master hadn't given up yet. "If, if a single hair is
      enough for the polyjuice potion to shape a new body, including the
      head, why a hair is not enough for the ritual to reconstruct a new
      brain?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to fight back his tears, and tried to control his
      voice. "I know polyjuice potion, the drinkers still think like
      themselves even they looked exactly like whoever the hair is from.
      I doubt the potion only reshapes the body, not the brain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't KNOW that!" The dark-haired potioneer spat. "An adult
      can polyjuice into a child, a man into a woman, and vice versa.
      Their brain sizes are surely different."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry then remembered that time when Severus drank polyjuice
      potion and changed into Harry. Hope and Rationalization began to
      argue inside Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">What Severus said is true, we don't KNOW it, we just made
      an assumption and jumped to conclusion.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">But the probability is high. All a human being</em>
      <strong class="calibre9">is</strong><em class="calibre8">is the brain, anything else can be repaired
      by magic. Otherwise, you would have to use something like the
      horcruxes. How could a hair possibly store all the memories and
      thoughts?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blinking hard, Harry spoke against the screaming rationalist
      inside him. "Professor Snape, do you have evidence whether the
      brain changes into the hair donor after drinking polyjuice potion?
      Like a CT scan or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus frowned. "Muggle electronics do not work well around
      magic, Mr. Potter. I suspect if I get a CT scan, the machine won't
      produce any useful result. And I wouldn't advise you to put
      polyjuice potion into the mouths of muggles, because potions
      harmless to wizards can usually be lethal to muggles or even
      squibs. - Wait, I guess someone may already know the answer."
      Severus' words stopped here, and his eyes unreadable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a sense that he shouldn't ask, but his Hope and
      Ravenclaw sides made him ask. "Who?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus's lips twitched a bit before he answered in a flat tone.
      "Lord Grindelwald, his researchers, and perhaps some Americans and
      Russians after Dumbledore won the duel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That answer sent a chill down Harry's spine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Actually, there are other ways to inspect the differences
      between two brains. For example, you can feed someone with
      polyjuice potion, then cut open the heads of both the drinker and
      hair donor to see for it yourself. Or, you can force a muggle to
      drink a polyjuice potion with the hair of another muggle regardless
      of the danger of the potion, and then see it on a muggle scanning
      device.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gulped. All of a sudden, he remembered the horrible human
      experiments conducted by the Germans and Japanese during World War
      II, and sadly, how some of the data from the experiments had
      benefitted scientific research later on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Lord Grindelwald had allied with the Nazis. He used muggles
      in concentration camps to make himself invincible. Nazi muggle
      scientists might even helped to design experiments for him, using
      some scientific methods.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">From a small corner of Harry's heart, Ravenclaw quietly
      suggested, <em class="calibre8">even though we will never do the experiments
      ourselves, since the results are already there, why not try and get
      it? We are doing this for all humanity, remember? There could be
      other important knowledge there as well, right?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus pondered for a while, then spoke slowly. "I suppose
      wizards in some former Soviet states might be easier to persuade
      than the Russians and Americans."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's Slytherin side jumped in. <em class="calibre8">Grindelwald already did
      the experiments, and a lot of our potential enemies already knew
      the experimental results. There is no advantage that we can gain by
      not knowing what the enemies already knew. And by knowing, we can
      bring back everyone much faster, including Grindelwald's victims.
      We have infinite gold now, and Severus seems to be willing to do
      the bribery job for us.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was fair to say that though Hufflepuff was screaming and
      Gryffindor was in righteous fury, Harry's Rationality side was
      quite tempted by the proposal. But again, Harry needed to ask
      Hermione's opinion. "Professor Snape, I need to take some time and
      think about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus hesitated, then nodded. "Fair -" The man suddenly
      stopped, then smiled with confidence and triumph. "Mr. Potter, I am
      afraid we have argued over a point that is irrelevant to the
      revival ritual. Although whether soul exists is up for debate,
      magical scholars all agree that wizards' thinking process can
      definitely continue without their original brain, or be
      discontinued with their brain intact. Animagi can think and act
      according to their own will inside the bodies of animals, where the
      brain sizes can vary greatly. Some wizards can even turn into
      something as small as a beetle. Whatever is there in the head of
      the beetle, it is not the original brain. But I do admit that the
      form of animal one adapted does have certain effects on one's
      primitive needs such as food preference. Moreover, it is widely
      known that dementor's kiss can suck one's soul out - or end their
      thinking process, depending on how to want to describe it - without
      any damage to the victim's physical existence. Therefore, I suspect
      the well-preserved brain may not play the central role for revival
      as you assumed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth, then closed it again. He had to admit he
      had never pondered the relationship between mind and brain for
      wizards, and he didn't have enough time to read books written by
      magical scholars. The existence of animagi did suggest that the
      original brain was not a necessary condition for wizards to think;
      as for the dementor's kiss, Harry assumed no wizards - that was,
      perhaps besides Grindelwald's researchers - had cut open an
      victim's brain to see if some brain damage did occur, so it was
      inconclusive. Professor Quirrell did say that he craved a live
      mouse for food after being a snake, and he also said one could
      never quite disentangle the mind from the body it wore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">But still, there is a big logic gap between an animagus'
      ability to think and the lack of necessity for a preserved brain in
      the ritual. Maybe I will teach Severus the scientific methods
      later.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wanted to point this out to Severus, but the problem was,
      some part of Harry really wanted to agree with Severus. Harry
      looked at the smirking man, and sighed. "Professor Snape, the fact
      that wizards don't need their original brain to think when they are
      alive doesn't mean you don't need their original brain to make them
      think again without a horcrux. Plus, I guess even it was possible,
      the amount of magic required to reconstruct all the memory and
      thoughts someone had at the point of death must be massive, and I
      don't think the magic used in the ritual would suffice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus first seemed to want to refute, but after he heard the
      last part, smirk slowly disappeared from his face. Harry could see
      the man's face turned grey, sorrow and remorse occupied the dark
      eyes, his shoulders slacked, and his back hunched a bit. The part
      of Harry that hoped Severus would offer some valid counter argument
      was squashed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">I need to figure out how to retrieve the deceased's' memory
      and thoughts, or I need to tear apart reality and Time, whichever
      is easier.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But reconstructing one's body is definitely a first step."
      Harry didn't want the man to destroy Lily and his own mother's hair
      in frustration and desperation, so he had to say this much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded gravely. After a while, the dark-haired man
      slowly resumed his composure, and continued his recount of that
      night. "Mr. Potter, I suppose, you know what happened later better
      than I do, since I only heard fragments of the conversation, the
      echolocation system didn't provide high quality images, and my eyes
      couldn't see much except false regular woods set up by the Dark
      Lord himself. However, the brightness of your patronus that you
      used to bring back Miss Granger was quite unique, I could see it
      with my poor eyes even through the magical concealments. But I do
      have a question concerning that, besides a little bit of life and
      magic, did you sacrifice the corporeal form of your patronus as
      well? Mine lost its corporeal form, but became really bright
      afterwards. Or am I not to know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Initially, Harry didn't know what Severus was talking about,
      then he realized: Severus must have upgraded his patronus from a
      Version 1.0 animal corporeal patronus to a Version 1.5
      death-repellent non-corporeal patronus in the revival of Lucius
      without quite knowing why. Harry had told the secrets of the true
      patronus to Hermione, so she could use her true patronus to kill
      all the dementors in Azkaban. Judging from the fact that Severus
      already got a Version 1.5 patronus by accident, Harry didn't doubt
      that the man could perform a true patronus if Harry told him the
      secret. Harry hesitated before he replied. "There is some tricks
      about that. I suppose you can still use your patronus to
      communicate and everything, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded. "True. I think my patronus is even more powerful
      than before, and I feel it can easily drive dementors miles away,
      though it's hard to find a dementor and do the test these days.
      -Oh, is that how you destroyed the dementor brought to Hogwarts,
      and how Miss Granger destroyed the herd in Azkaban?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, Severus Snape is smart.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus pondered and said. "I suppose that's some riddle I need
      to solve for myself, but it's good to know that dementors and
      lethifolds are less of a threat to me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also, though I guess it would be a poor comparison, did you
      become more friendly and more protective toward Miss Granger after
      you revived her in the ritual?" Severus frowned. "Or, is it because
      Lucius recognized multiple life debts to me regardless of the
      status of Snape family? I heard there is some old magic involved in
      life debts, that some sort of magical bond might be formed in the
      process. Or, is that simple human psychology that led to my growing
      care for Lucius, after I revived him and saved him a couple dozens
      of times? "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had no answer to that question. He was indeed more
      protective toward Hermione after she was revived, but that could be
      simple human psychology. And come to think of it, Hermione did owe
      him a life debt, and the part of ritual where Harry needed to put
      his life and magic into the patronus might have some effects as
      well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To be precise, I think I might have lost the will to kill
      Lucius." Severus sighed. "I wouldn't want to kill him before, but I
      think I could use the killing curse on Lucius if necessary. Now, I
      don't think I can kill him, at least not with the killing
      curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could never use the killing curse on Hermione in the first
      place, so he had no idea whether it was the ritual at work, or
      Severus just became a better person, or Severus cared more about
      Lucius or about humanity in general.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Slytherin quietly suggested. <em class="calibre8">That's a big side effect. If we
      want to use Severus as an assassin, we can't let him revive too
      many people. And we shouldn't revive too many people ourselves,
      either.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">All the other parts of Harry screamed <em class="calibre8">SHUT UP</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided to answer honestly. "Professor Snape, I already
      cared Hermione a lot before that day, so I have no idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would expect so." Severus nodded, and continued with his
      story of that night. "I have to say that I was quite shocked when I
      heard that you might destroy the world according to a Prophecy, and
      somewhat relieved when the Dark Lord forced you to take the
      Unbreakable Vow. Then later, as I heard you threatened the Dark
      Lord with massive explosion, I was almost scared to death. I
      thought you had a miniaturized nuclear weapon, or something with
      similar effects, and you might start a world-wide nuclear war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wanted to correct Severus' misconception about nuclear
      weapons, and decided against it. Harry had estimated in that night
      that there was no way an explosion caused by antimatter could be
      misinterpreted as a nuclear attack. And modern nuclear weapons and
      missiles had too many electronics in them that they couldn't
      possibly work properly around magic. But it wouldn't do Harry much
      good to deny it right away. On the other hand, Severus was a
      half-blood, he might read muggle books himself later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' dark eyes searched Harry's blank face, and continued.
      "I tried to fly into the graveyard to stop you, but I was stopped
      by Time. Obviously, the Dark Lord had set up some barrier to
      prohibit the graveyard's future to interact with its past. Then you
      struck all the Death Eaters and the Dark Lord with some magic that
      I still do not understand today, and you brought down the Dark Lord
      with some magical resonance between the two of you. The Time
      barrier disappeared as the Dark Lord lost consciousness. I fell to
      the ground as the pain from the Dark Mark almost made me pass out.
      Then," The ex-Death Eater's voice became less steady. "I saw
      Lucius' head right beside me. He wasn't really my friend back then,
      but he was someone that I could trust slightly above average, for
      the reason that you might have already guessed. I used cooling
      charms on his head, and the heads and partial heads of several
      others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was quite relieved when he heard this part. At least, the
      thirty-six accounts of life that Harry himself took could be easily
      brought back, or could it? "So you collected all the heads? How
      about Macnair and Quirrell? I mean, Quirinus Quirrell was innocent,
      he was just occupied by the Dark Lord. And Macnair tried to fight
      the Dark Lord."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' eyes widened a little upon Harry's question, but
      answered smoothly, "I only have the ones that I didn't resent too
      much. I have Macnair's thumb, Quirrell's whole body, heads of
      Dolohov, Crabbe, Goyle, Rosier, Yaxley and Nott, and half heads of
      Mulciber and Sr. and Jr. Avery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was a little disappointed for this answer. However, eleven
      transfigured bodies plus one living Lucius, that was still better
      than none.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus expanded his answer. "And if you must know, I also have
      bodies of several muggles in my collection, but I am afraid all of
      them were brain-dead long before I got them, since the majority of
      them were nameless frozen bodies in muggle police morgues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ignoring the angry stares from all other parts for his previous
      suggestion, Slytherin had a good idea. <em class="calibre8">Cunning people all have
      false identities ready at hand, we should do so as well. As Lucius
      indicated, it could be quite a lot of work, we'd better start soon.
      Ask Minerva to add an extra name on the list now and then, and ask
      Severus or Mad-Eye to look for nameless bodies in muggle morgues
      whose identity you can take.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the construction of false identities could wait. "I assume
      you took the instruction the Dark Lord gave me, and made a
      copy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus nodded, and described how his time-turned self reminded
      him what to do; how he waited in the bathroom, swapped Harry's
      pouch, and took the Stone while Harry was changing; and how he used
      the duplication charm and the Stone to make duplicates of the
      instruction and the bodies. When time wasn't enough, he turned back
      another hour to make more transfigurations permanent, and finally
      duplicated the Stone itself. To the last part, Severus added in
      frustration, "Obviously, the power of the Stone is not something
      that could be transmitted so easily. I have tried it on several
      objects, a cat, and a dog, there was no problem before I used it in
      the ritual. However, the body of Lucius still came out the way it
      is now. The duplicate stone could stabilize Lucius for six to seven
      hours at the first time, then it became five hours, then four. Now,
      it is mostly my magic that is sustaining Lucius' life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's brain quickly generated several experiments to test the
      power level and the decay curve of the duplicated Stone, and that
      of duplicates of duplicates. And after some extrapolation, Harry
      might be able to estimate the power level of the original Stone,
      unless the extrapolation didn't work for the original Stone. Harry
      had been sort of worried over whether the Stone might slowly lose
      its power over intensive usage. Harry had read some theory on the
      Gemeo charm that the decay rate of duplicated object was dependent
      on the power of magic put into the charm and the size of the
      object. Severus was an exceptional potioneer, that meant he had
      excellent control of magic at all times, therefore, he might be a
      very good experimenter for this test - and a lot of other
      experiments that Harry and Hermione couldn't do yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Both Slytherin and Ravenclaw started to regret his decision to
      let Severus go freely one year ago, but Hufflepuff and Gryffindor
      shouted them down. Then Harry had an idea that he needed to test.
      "Professor Snape, can I have the duplicated Stone? I may need to
      study its properties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus reached into his pouch, and handed Harry a red glass
      that looked quite similar to the original Stone, but the color was
      a little dull. "I just used it to stabilize Lucius before we came
      here. The power might return after six or more hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry put the duplicate into his regular pocket. "Thank you. I
      will test it later then. Please go on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As for my days in the past year, there is little that needs to
      be said. No magical law was broken except the usage of false
      identities and being an illegal animagus." Severus' voice took on a
      tone of sarcasm and grievance. " I guess reviving a dead Death
      Eater is rare enough that there is no law against that." He sighed.
      "I had been proud of myself for completing the ritual, but I never
      realized what I have done to the world until Lucius pointed it out
      to my face."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This part, Harry understood quite well now. Everyone in the
      world would want to know the secrets of revival, and who knew who
      they might choose to revive? Voldemort wasn't the only dark wizard
      who made horcruxes. Maybe some good people have destroyed fathers'
      bones of some dark lords, and rendered them unable to return. And
      this ritual could work in the dark lords' favor. What if some of
      the dark lords were so insane that they wanted to destroy the
      world? That was downright disaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Remorse was obvious in Severus' eyes and voice. "I should have
      thought of it, everyone would want to grab the power. And the
      potential enemies who wanted the Stone might have a much easier
      time in convincing their minions to risk their lives in the
      endeavor, since if they were successful, any lives lost in the
      attack could be restored."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, that as well. I need to spend some more time in my dark
      side to think about more avenues how revival could be
      dangerous.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a problem with that, Harry figured that by thinking
      about how the world could be destroyed, or just spending too much
      time in the dark side, he might increase his chances of causing the
      end of the world. Harry needed to ask for Hermione's opinion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In my blindness in the pursuit of power, and in my laughable
      ambition to walk the walks of Albus Dumbledore among others, I have
      neglected my duty in the Order as the dark wizard." Severus looked
      highly uncomfortable, somewhat reminding Harry of a student
      awaiting for reprimand from a teacher. "I should have stayed, and
      spent my time thinking like a dark wizard so that I could
      anticipate what they might do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't think there was anything wrong for Severus to try
      to become an extra powerful lord, as long as he didn't hurt anyone
      on his path. And Harry thought it would be bad for Severus to brew
      himself in the dark wizard mode for too long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And that was what Dumbledore made Severus and perhaps
      Mad-Eye do, or maybe these two just volunteered themselves. No
      wonder Severus was that snarky and Mad-Eye was that paranoid. Good
      people shouldn't be forced to do that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a dull pain in Harry's heart, even if he knew it was
      necessary and right, even if he knew the personal happiness of two
      wizards was nothing as comparing to the number of lives they had
      already saved and might save in the future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Don't forget we have a dark wizard and a bad person at our
      service for the next several hundred years.</em> Slytherin
      suggested. <em class="calibre8">We don't need to worry about Lucius going darker.
      Though we'd better let Severus and Mad-Eye check on the ideas
      proposed by Lucius.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's face adapted some of the sternness of Albus Dumbledore,
      then softened. "Professor Snape, I don't want to let you spend too
      much time in the dark mode, but do you have any more ideas how the
      whole affair could be dangerous?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus answered without hesitation. "If people know that even
      duplicated Stones can sustain transfiguration for up to a year,
      instead of using them to stabilize dying people so that they can be
      transport to the Hospital, they may use the duplicated Stones to
      sustain weapons. I heard the maintenance of nuclear weapons can be
      quite expensive so that a number of nations are considering to cut
      the stock of such weapons, but they are also worried that they may
      not have enough weapons when needed. As far as I know, the highest
      offices in most countries already knew about magic, and some might
      think to have contracts with powerful wizards, so that they can
      multiply their weapon stock as needed, and keep it there for a
      while with the duplicated Stones. I know that a lot of modern
      weapons with fancy electronics don't work well around magic, but I
      don't think the earlier models, such as those used by the Americans
      on the Japanese, could possibly contain too much electronics. Well,
      on the other hand, from what I heard about Chernobyl, nuclear
      things that do not work may cause more damage than those ones that
      work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry almost gulped. That was an idea he had thought of before.
      It seemed Harry was not that unique. "How long did it take you to
      think of it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One day when I was sleep deprived and magically exhausted, in
      the middle of trying to keep Lucius alive." Severus sighed. "I can
      certainly generate more if I get some rest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, it only took us a second. Regular smart people are
      not THAT creative.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't sure if he could take this as a comfort. There was
      also a question that Harry had to ask. "And how many wizards know
      about nuclear weapons or something like that?" Harry deliberately
      avoided the word "physics".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone who has spent enough time when their TV sets or radios
      are tuned to the news channel during the past fifty years. We have
      just ended a Cold War, Mr. Potter. Even the drug addicts in the
      ghetto where I grew up used 'the Soviets may nuke us all tomorrow'
      as an excuse for their behavior." Tiredness and frustration were in
      the silky voice of the half-blood wizard. "About five to six
      percent of the students in Hogwarts have non-magical parentage or
      upbringing, and I would assume the number to be similar for other
      countries. Therefore, about fifty to sixty thousand in total."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And you don't need to be Harry or Voldemort to think of
      that. You just need to be Severus Snape.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' face began to show desperation. "And in the thirty or
      so powerful lords in the world who are almost in par with Albus
      Dumbledore, at least two are known to have non-magical parentage,
      more might hide their family history. There are also lords like
      Grindelwald. I can hardly imagine Lord Grindelwald doesn't know how
      his muggle Japanese allies failed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By this point, Harry was quite amazed that the world was still
      largely intact. Harry almost wanted to set up a Interdict of Harry
      now, so that no magic could be used around nuclear reactions or any
      fundamental particles in general. But no, Harry still needed to
      figure out how to use stars as fuels and how to conquer the
      galaxies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And I need to remind Auror Kingsley Shacklebolt that he
      should never give any good ideas to the muggle prime minister whom
      he is protecting.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't the end of Severus' words. "The worse thing is,
      among the several hundred to several thousand muggles in the
      highest offices who know about magic, a lot of them are reasonably
      intelligent, and some might even be creative. And according to some
      city legends in the United States, during the Cold War, both the
      American and the Russian muggles had used muggleborns in various
      experiments, and some wizards in the United States and Soviet Union
      might have participated. Considering the number of new spells
      crafted and the number of powerful lords emerged during the Cold
      War in those two countries, that could be true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt sick. Harry had read about it somewhere that the
      United States government had deliberately spread syphillis and
      other sexual transmitted diseases in Guatemala in the 1940s, and in
      rural Alabama in black neighborhoods the 1970s, to test the
      epidemiology of such diseases. Therefore, there was no reason to
      believe that Germans or Japanese were particularly cruel, nor to
      believe Grindelwald's research was that unique. The British
      wizarding nobilities wanted to kill all muggleborns, elites in some
      other countries just found better uses for muggleborns, minorities,
      and citizens of some unimportant third world countries. Harry
      needed to optimize the world sooner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sternness and determination on Harry's face might have
      unnerved Severus, for the man quickly said, "I am sorry to disturb
      your thought so. I wonder if there is anything I could do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. It was Harry who had been too naive, and
      it was Harry who had deliberately avoided to think of such cruel
      things. Harry inhaled, and exhaled. "Professor Snape, thank you for
      letting me know. It's not decided yet, but would you mind to go on
      a trip to, say, Ukraine? You don't need to worry about cost or
      anything like that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus composed himself from the previous desperation, and from
      his fear for the Boy-Who-Lived who scarily resembled Albus
      Dumbledore in his wrath. Severus bared his teeth with a bit of
      smirk. "My pleasure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry realized Severus must have made himself quite a lot of
      gold and silver with the Stone, as a cunning Slytherin should.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, Severus looked a bit hesitant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" Harry didn't want to force Severus to do things that he
      didn't want to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus sighed. "Lucius is an expert in bribery and corrupting
      government officials."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, right, he cares about Lucius. I should really be
      careful about when and who to revive whom. For example, I can't let
      Mad-Eye revive people he might need to hunt down later. By the way,
      should I use Lucius on so many important matters?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hesitated, and said, "I need to think about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then, I guess I have already received the answer to another
      question, but I have to ask. Lucius has invited me to be Draco's
      godfather. Lord Potter, according to your opinion, I should refuse
      it, right? " Severus said with some reluctance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry noticed that Severus had just called him "Lord Potter",
      and the man seemed quite ready to serve another lord even if
      something the new lord desired was different from what he himself
      desired. Plus, Severus completely misunderstood what the previous
      hesitation was about. Harry was all about giving Draco more
      protection now after he talked with Lucius. "Oh, Professor Snape,
      of course you can become Draco's godfather if you want to. I am
      really happy for Draco and you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' eyes were perplexed for a while, then he said, "Thank
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And please call me Harry, or Mr. Potter, or Mr.
      Potter-Evans-Verres. Lord Potter is only reserved for very formal
      occasions." Harry added. He was OK being called as Lord Potter by
      Lucius, and Harry could act accordingly; but being called that by
      the ex-Potions master, or Professor Flitwick, or Professor Sprout?
      That was just bizarre. Plus, Harry needed to stay away from the
      image of "Dark Lord Harry".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus seemed to have worked up some courage from Harry's
      statements. "Mr. Potter, there is a matter that I may need to
      remind you to be more careful next time. It is about your theory on
      magical inheritance. Lucius had told me about what he heard from
      Draco when Draco was under Veritaserum. It seemed like you
      considered it a Mendelian inheritance of one single pair of gene. I
      happen to know some basics of the muggle genetic theory. According
      to your theory, a magical parent and a muggle parent can only give
      birth to a squib, and no squibs should be borned to wizarding
      families. According to what I know, my father was a muggle, or at
      least, he could be driven away by a muggle-repelling charm that I
      could master without a wand in my fifth year in Hogwarts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened his mouth. He hadn't revisited his theory after the
      hasty session with Draco. He didn't even collect data for all types
      of couples, let alone trying to disprove his own theory. For such
      an important question, one hour with shreds of paper was obviously
      not enough. And according to Harry's theory, it was either that
      Severus had a mutation in the magical gene, or he was adopted, or
      his mother cheated, with much higher probabilities for the later
      two than the first one. "Professor Snape, I didn't mean to -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Personally, it is not a big insult to me, I didn't like my
      father anyway. However, I guess you have gathered why topics like
      this should be treated with more care. Draco was not an occlumens
      back then. Imagine what would happen if some 'good' fools accessed
      Draco's mind before Lucius did, and they might make this theory
      public for some greater good." A hint of sarcasm was in Severus'
      voice. "Either that you are right, and you will offend a lot of
      half-bloods who could be on your side, including Minerva, Trelawney
      and our new DADA teacher Lupin in the faculties, and Seamus
      Finnigan and Dean Thomas in your year alone; or you are wrong, and
      you will lose much credibility on other matters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, and thanked Severus sincerely. "Professor Snape,
      thank you so much for telling me. You are right, I need to be more
      careful, and I will definitely reinvestigate my theory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And that is our reward for not being a Dark Lord.</em>
      Hufflepuff commented happily. <em class="calibre8">Severus will never think to
      correct Voldemort's assumptions or to warn him to be more careful.
      As a result, Voldemort never knew two of his foremost Death Eaters
      could understand his hisses.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ravenclaw echoed. <em class="calibre8">Yeah, I also wonder how many other things
      Voldemort was wrong and nobody told him. And, come to think of it,
      Voldemort just withheld so much information from his followers that
      not even Bellatrix knew where he hid one of his many horcruxes.
      Otherwise, Bellatrix would have revived him years ago. By the way,
      we really need to revisit all our previous assumptions, discuss
      them with Hermione and/or Draco, discuss with Severus and Mad-Eye
      if necessary, and make a serious effort to disprove them. According
      to the number of names Severus just listed, it is possible that we
      already made a mistake. Not only the half-blood that Severus
      mentioned, if what Voldemort said in front of the SPHEW witches
      were true, he thought his father was a muggle as well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The inner critic offered an alternative explanation. <em class="calibre8">Or
      maybe none of the half-bloods know or tell others that their
      non-magical parents are actually squibs.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Snape, please do tell me everything that I might be
      wrong in the future." Harry said with all his sincerity. "And, umm,
      I have some books you can read after you get some rest. I can't
      imagine what you would be like with the books."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">At least, my book choices for Draco in his first year were
      no secrets now. So I'd better appear to be generous.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus slightly tilted his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some basic inheritance data that Harry should collect before he
      could draw his conclusion on the AA-Aa-aa genetics:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1. The percentage of different phenotypes of children born to
      magical (AA) and muggle (aa) couples, which should be 100% squibs
      (Aa).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2. The percentage of different phenotypes of children born to
      magical (AA) and squib (Aa) couples. The result should be
      approximately 50% of magical children and 50% of squibs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">3. The percentage of different phenotypes of children born to
      squib (Aa) couples. The result should be approximately 25% of
      magical children (AA), 50% of squibs (Aa), and 25% muggles
      (aa).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">4. The percentage of different phenotypes of children born to
      magical (AA) couples, which should be 100% magical (AA).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">5. The percentage of different phenotypes of children born to
      squib (Aa) and muggle (aa) couples, which should be 50% squibs and
      50% muggles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">6. To be precise, Harry also need to collect data to see the
      percentage of squib/muggle children born to muggleborn, half-blood,
      and pureblood couples.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry only collected less than 20% of the basic data he needed
      from a very small sampling pool, and he jumped to the conclusion
      that suited his taste. Plus, Harry didn't know the possibility that
      some of the squib parents in his sampling pool could actually be
      magical, and their magic was suppressed for some reason. Ariana
      Dumbledore and Merope Gaunt had both been considered as squibs by
      some others, but they were both witches. Any scientific journal
      should reject Harry's paper within 10 minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next update will be 6 pm (EDT), 04/11/2015.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
