<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 16 Interlude - Draco, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s16" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 16: Interlude, Draco</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">5:21 pm, June 24th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Interlude, Draco Malfoy</p>

      <p class="calibre6">Draco cherished every second that he could spend with both his
      parents, he really did. But this was a rather awkward moment that
      Draco wanted to run away from.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you have been seeing Miss Padma Patil privately for several
      times?" Father smiled while petting Draco's coiling snake patronus
      on his lap. "I have seen her fighting beside you, a cunning and
      powerful witch indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mother grabbed Draco's hand. "Oh, Draco my dear, why don't you
      tell me earlier? I was thinking about the two Greengrass girls, but
      your opinion is the decisive one. You should invite Miss Patil home
      sometimes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ahh…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cissy, I have looked up Miss Patil's lineage since I knew she
      was Draco's lieutenant," Father patted Draco's shoulder
      approvingly, and then reached for Mother's hand. "All magical up to
      her grandparents. I need to write more letters to my contacts in
      India for further information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Err, Father looked up Padma's family history when I was in
      my first year? Father, you don't need to be that prepared.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco, by the way, do you know her caste? I heard Brahmins are
      priests in India, therefore more likely to be wizards, or of higher
      social status." Father asked another question that Draco didn't
      know how to answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By this point, Draco just wanted to hide his face in his hands:
      <em class="calibre8">Father, I know you are a pureblood supremacist, I didn't know
      you are a supremacist in other accounts as well. Oh, Merlin. This
      IS Father. What can I do?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Mother asked, and Father explained what the caste system
      was, and why Patil was such a common last name that Father's
      contacts in India couldn't decide her caste just from her surname,
      the suitcase door was opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was both disappointed and guiltily relieved to see Severus
      by the door. The dark-haired man appeared both tired and happy.
      "Lucius, I think I will accept your invitation now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Severus, my brother and best friend," Father stood up and
      walked toward Severus with open arms. "We are really going to be
      family now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mother was a bit confused. She asked Draco with a whisper, "What
      invitation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father's footsteps stopped, his arm in mid-air, and he answered
      with a bit of awkwardness in his voice, "Cissy, I - I haven't have
      a chance to tell you, I invited Severus to be Draco's
      godfather."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dark-haired man walking down the stairs became quite awkward
      as well. "Mrs. Malfoy, if -"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, my dear Severus," Mother smiled at Severus while sending a
      glare toward Father, "Draco will be so lucky as to have you as his
      godfather."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From Harry's training, Draco knew the reason that Father never
      asked Mother's opinion on such familial matters was not that Father
      didn't respect Mother or something like that. It was because Mother
      hadn't been in Father's decision-making system for eleven years,
      and human beings simply did not update their decision patterns that
      quickly. However, Draco was not sure how Mother would take
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father cleared his throat, showed Severus the couch and said,
      "Severus, why don't we do it now? I can draft the paperwork, and -"
      Father looked up at Harry, who was now standing outside of the
      suitcase door, "Lord Potter, would you like to be one of the
      witnesses?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I would be happy to." Harry answered cheerfully. "By the
      way, how many witnesses do you need?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two." Father answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione will be here in a moment." Harry eyed Father
      pointedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father tilted his head graciously. "It would be a great honor
      for House Malfoy to have Lady Granger as the second witness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I will talk with Hermione first, so she won't be too
      surprised to see you." Harry said. "And Professor Snape, I will
      need you to lift the seal of the room and reseal it again when
      Hermione comes. Now I will leave you four here for a private
      moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is so considerate of you, Lord Potter." Father said
      politely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the suitcase door was closed from outside, Father began to
      draft paperwork, Mother offered Severus tea, and asked lightly,
      "Severus, as Draco's godfather, your opinion will be highly valued
      in the topic we were at before you came in. Do you happen to have
      any recollections on Miss Padma Patil?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ahherrr… Can we discuss the end of the world or something
      like that?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next chapter will be up at 6 pm (EDT), 04/12/2015.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
