<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 22 The Man of Many Names, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 22: The Man of Many Names</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">6:21 am, June 28th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a luxurious modern apartment near the Square Mile of London,
      a middle-aged man sat by a large office table in the study.
      Lamplight reflected off of his balding head as he stared at the
      past year's collection of the <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> over his brown
      moustache, his face bearing an expression of complete disbelief.
      His left hand fumbled awkwardly for his long-forgotten coffee on
      the table, as if it was only a prosthetic hand made of metal and
      plastic; and his right hand waved a black wand with amazing
      deftness and precision. "Accio <em class="calibre8">Quibbler</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">This has to be kidding. Not even that boy could be this
      stupid, not even Dumbledore could reach this level of insanity. And
      if what the paper said is true, how is the world not on
      fire?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After flipping through <em class="calibre8">The Quibbler</em>, <em class="calibre8">American
      Mage</em>, <em class="calibre8">Toronto Magical Tribune</em>, and <em class="calibre8">Magical
      Pravda</em>, the middle-aged man, known to some as Alexander
      Chernyshov, others as Jeremy Jaffe, some as Matsumoto Taro, while a
      certain boy might recognize him by magical resonance as Tom Riddle,
      sighed in complete frustration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">I know I was an exceptional idiot when I was twelve, I know
      Dumbledore is completely insane, and I have studied the minds of
      delusional patients in St. Mungo's, but what the boy did is beyond
      my wildest imagination. Providing service of the Stone to the
      entire wizarding world, what was he thinking?! Every powerful
      wizard in the world, no matter what they pretend to be or whether
      they consider themselves as Light or Dark, would drop their masks
      and pursue it! Perenelle was only able to keep the Stone for six
      hundred years because she pretended that the power of the Stone had
      great limitations, such as only being able to extend your life for
      a few decades, and spreading rumors such as infertility after using
      the Stone - as evidenced by the fact that she and Flamel never had
      any kids. And now, after a bunch of dying witches and wizards
      successfully had babies after returning to their twenties by the
      Stone, is there anything left that can prohibit the mundane idiots
      from wanting it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And as the man turned to his next obvious question, he felt a
      worse headache than he'd had last night when he saw Crystal
      Camblebunker's petrified body and found Nagini missing: <em class="calibre8">why is
      the world still standing today?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man could easily envision hundreds of ways how the world and
      maybe even the universe might come to the end - the books that boy
      lent him gave him some extra ideas - but he could not even figure
      out one reason why magical Britain was still largely intact
      today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Surely, some powerful lords in the world would be wise
      enough to reach agreements with each other while the others were
      still squabbling. They can always rob the Stone from
      Azkaban/Hogwarts/Department of Mysteries first, and try to kill
      each other later. Or, is my estimation of human nature too
      optimistic again?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was also the question that what the hell happened on that
      night. Being a Version 1.0 horcrux as the boy might name him, the
      man only knew what Tom Riddle did and intended to do as of 6:26 am,
      June 13th, 1992, but he had no idea what really happened after
      that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man knew for sure that the ridiculous story given by the
      "vision" of the Boy-Who-Lived was something made up by the younger
      Tom Riddle in great haste. Although he did plan to revive the
      Granger girl, he had no plan to sacrifice all the Death Eaters, so
      that part must be the hand of that boy. He could hardly fathom how
      the simultaneous beheadings could be done if certain books given to
      him by that boy hadn't given him some ideas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Probably the boy transfigured some anesthetic/poisonous gas
      that he himself had antidote, and then he did the beheadings later.
      Or maybe Mad-Eye Moody did it for him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And thinking along that line, it was easy to explain why his
      Version 2.0 horcruxes were not activated the moment Tom Riddle was
      vanquished - because he didn't die, per se. Perhaps Moody had
      crucioed the original Tom Riddle into insanity, or obliviated him,
      or used some other magic, or made him brain-dead as called by the
      muggle medical book, or all of the above.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That could also partially explain Lucius Malfoy's sudden
      reappearance. He remembered his plan to force the boy to take an
      Unbreakable Vow that he would not destroy the world, and Lucius
      would be the binder. The <em class="calibre8">Daily Prophet</em> said that Lucius'
      reluctance for the sacrifice the Dark Lord asked was the reason the
      ritual failed, and Lucius was a snake animagus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Then things make sense now. The younger Tom Riddle is an
      heir of Slytherin as well. The treacherous Malfoy had already
      signed a deal with the Boy-Who-Lived, and these two might know that
      they could communicate in Parseltongue. So while the original Tom
      Riddle thought that Parseltongue conversation was private and safe,
      if Potter wanted Lucius to understand what the two Tom Riddles
      conversed in Parseltongue, Lucius could. Therefore, the boy and the
      elder Malfoy might have coordinated their moves, the boy used the
      magical resonance between Tom Riddles to temporarily disable the
      Dark Lord, while Lucius would use some gas or magical device to
      disable the other Death Eaters.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Oh, if everything went as planned, the boy still had one
      more hour in his Time-turner, so he could plan ahead with Lucius,
      and all Lucius needed was some cue from the boy, then he could act.
      And Lucius probably didn't die at all. He just laid low for a year,
      then came out again as the boy needed some blatantly stupid bait to
      get Bellatrix.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Well, maybe the bait isn't that stupid if I let Bellatrix
      run loose like the last time. She might think whatever the boy said
      in the newspaper is a new order for her, and just turn herself in.
      Or, she might break into the Ministry of Magic to kill Lucius for
      revenge. It is so hard to balance your servants' loyalty and their
      intelligence.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Maybe the younger Tom Riddle told Lucius that I was behind
      the attempted murder of his son, and I have planned to use that
      attempted murder to frame him, in Parseltongue, of course. Lucius
      might seek revenge. Moreover, the reward for Lucius' treason is
      also quite obvious: Narcissa. Hmm, I have never thought Lucius
      would care so much about his wife. Did he hold grudge against me
      when I refused to enact revenge for Narcissa's supposed
      death?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Ordinary fools, Lucius Malfoy and Severus Snape alike.
      Admittedly, Bellatrix is pretty much like that as well. On the
      other hand, this part of human nature is something that I have not
      fully comprehended, and therefore not fully exploited
      earlier.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-And since Lucius presented himself as the Number Two enemy
      of the Dark Lord, and a bait for Bellatrix, I will surely grant his
      wish after I get my power back and after I have killed the younger
      Tom Riddle. I will make sure to kill his wife and son slowly and
      creatively in front of him, and then enjoy some other creative ways
      on Lucius. But that can wait.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With one of the biggest mysteries solved, the man turned to the
      next impending question: <em class="calibre8">how can I get my power back?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before making this particular horcrux with Helga Hufflepuff's
      cup, Tom Riddle had thought of the fact that a Version 1.0 horcrux
      would not be able to understand the powerful magic that he wielded,
      so he had transferred all his knowledge to his basilisk pet Nagini,
      and arranged Crystal to look after it. He had to order Nagini not
      to petrify or kill Crystal, of course. However, when he went to
      Dean Forest last night, he had only found a stone statue of
      Crystal, and Nagini was no longer there. He caught a snake nearby,
      and asked what had happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stupid non-magical creature answered: "<em class="calibre8">The Crown of
      Sserpent ordered all ssnakess to tell all bassilisskss and powerful
      magical ssnakess to go to Hogwartss discreetly. The caretaker woman
      tried to sstop Nagini, sso Nagini killed her.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle immediately killed the snake and used a vanishing
      spell on the body, for any snake might report to the younger Tom
      Riddle, and he doubted if the memory charms that he could manage at
      this time could fool the minions of his younger self.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">It seems that boy has overcome his reluctance in creating
      sapient beings, and began to utilize snakes as messengers. Hmm, he
      might want to gather all powerful magical snakes, and to see if any
      of them has the same knowledge as Herpo did. A very logical and
      clever approach indeed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Ah, the boy might have figured out my backup plan as to use
      the combination of a Version 1.0 horcrux and a basilisk from there.
      Nagini must have just got Hogwarts, for the boy only started to use
      Lucius as a bait a few days ago.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Damn, I have ordered Nagini not to give knowledge to anyone
      but me, yet the boy is another Tom Riddle, and another Heir of
      Slytherin. The boy must know the secrets of a lot of powerful
      magics by now. I need to kill that boy before he tells the secrets
      to more people. However, considering the boy's exceptional
      stupidity in dealing with the Stone, maybe even Lucius has been
      taught some protection spells that I created by now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-I need to regain my power, fast.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Hmm, since any of my orders can be overridden by the
      younger Tom Riddle, if I get a hold on Nagini, I can override the
      boy's orders as well. Yeah, the boy has probably figured this out
      already, and he may think Nagini is a more subtle bait for me, and
      have arranged traps for me in Hogwarts. However, I never said that
      I only have one pet snake, did I? As I'm going to Albania soon, the
      stupid Nagini can wait for its punishment. I just need to get to
      the Dark Forest before the boy's order gets there. But before that,
      I need a place to plan and prepare.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, the man was now in his luxurious condo in a modern
      apartment complex near the Center of London, where it was least
      likely to contain the spying eyes of snakes. He needed to plan more
      carefully this time round, and he needed some more physical
      strength before the long-distance portkey traveling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The potions to remove Bellatrix's character from her body
      did work, but that woman had certainly skipped quite a number of
      meals and had lost the track of time in the meanwhile. And now, I
      am temporarily trapped in this weakened body as an unpleasant side
      effect. Also, if she had grabbed onto my cup earlier, I might have
      be able to catch Nagini before the stupid snake got to
      Hogwarts.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man sighed, and continued his planning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">The next Chapter will be up at 6 pm (EDT),
      04/23/2015.</strong></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
