<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 2 The Unbelievable Night, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: The Unbelievable Night</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">10:59 pm, June 13th, 1992</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The disillusioned bat flew through the forbidden forest, toward
      where Severus suspected the explosion might come from, at a speed
      that no non-magical bat could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus used his poorly-developed eyes to guide his general
      directions and used his echolocation system to try to detect any
      abnormality in the forest. Severus knew that most magical
      concealments were meant to deceive human eyes and ears, and some
      charms would trick human noses, but that was about it. Severus did
      not know of any existing charm that could guard against the
      frequencies of a bat echolocation system, except for his own
      creations, of course. Therefore, in most cases, if his vision and
      his echolocation system provided him different information, there
      would most likely be some magical concealments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, Severus faced two difficulties.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">First, his vision as a bat was far inferior to his sharp eyes as
      a human being.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the second was much worse than the first. Namely, as shown
      in the Azkaban break-out, the Dark Lord had begun to study muggle
      science. The Dark Lord might learn about echolocation and other
      types of animal sensory systems that human beings do not possess,
      and therefore he would create charms against those. Severus could
      only hope that the Dark Lord had been too busy with his revival to
      learn about that particular area of muggle science yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then, the discrepancy that Severus hoped for popped up.
      Somewhere to his east side, probably outside Hogwarts' apparition
      barrier, there was a large strange area. Though his eyes told him
      it was just normal woods, his auditory nerves produced an image of
      something quite different: an open land with some objects scattered
      here and there. It was too distant for Severus to tell what those
      things were, but he knew that must be it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus carefully flew nearer, the image from the strange
      area became clearer, and the scattering objects looked more and
      more like tombstones. The disillusioned large bat then realized
      what this place must be: Tom Riddle Sr.'s real burial place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Father's bone, of course! Well, Moody and I spent quite
      some time in vain.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">So, the Dark Lord will rise again through his father's
      bone, his servant's flesh, possibly Bellatrix Black's, and his
      enemy's blood. Damn, that means he must have captured the Potter
      boy, and will use his blood. Nothing less would satisfy someone as
      arrogant as the Dark Lord. Then Albus will show up, sacrifice
      himself to save the big-headed Boy-Who-Lived, and seal the Dark
      Lord for now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Merlin damned stupid Potter! If I survive this, I will
      personally administer him some potions of my own creation!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But Severus knew he would not survive this. Instead, he would
      appear at the height of Albus's battle with the Dark Lord, and he
      would do whatever he could, so that the Boy-Who-Lived would have a
      chance to escape and perform whatever magic had caused that huge
      CRACK noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suppressing a sigh, Severus chose a tall tree well outside the
      range of the discrepancy area, yet close enough for his
      echolocation system to be effective, and hung upside-down on a
      branch near the tree trunk like a real bat. He turned his left ear
      to receive the echoes, and pressed his right one against the trunk.
      Hopefully, the Dark Lord had not thought of blocking non-air
      transmitted sound waves yet, and with his magically enhanced
      auditory system, maybe some sound transmitting through solids could
      be heard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he pressed his right ear harder on the trunk, Severus almost
      twitched. He clearly heard some footsteps coming from the ground.
      Being long used to his bat animagus form surveying his surrounding
      mostly by sound, Severus was able to tell that there were two
      people, one adult and one child, traveling through a tunnel. And
      then something swung open; Severus heard his probes bounce off of
      two figures as they appeared in the graveyard. The taller figure
      appeared to be Quirrell. Severus vaguely remembered seeing that man
      before everything became haze a few hours ago, so he was not too
      surprised that the Dark Lord was in disguise as this David Monroe
      guy. Plus, that man was the Defense Professor, which made the
      affair no surprise at all. And the smaller figure, no question, was
      the Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was not really surprised to sense an altar rising from
      the graveyard, either. The Dark Lord had accomplished innumerable
      mighty magic feats, and this sort of thing was quite normal by his
      standards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, when Severus heard the vague sound coming from the tree
      trunk, including some mumbling sounding like "<em class="calibre8">Granger shall
      revive</em>", he almost fell from the tree. Just as Severus was
      questioning his own sanity, he heard some hissing sound, which in
      itself was not unusual, since the Dark Lord was the most famous
      parselmouth in recent history. But why did he talk to the boy in
      Parseltongue? Just to scare the boy?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">But, but, is my Parseltongue too rusty nowadays? Did I just
      hear that he spoke in PARSELTONGUE that he wants to revive
      Granger?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his misspent youth, Severus had worshiped the Dark Lord, had
      wanted to mimic the man in every way he could. One of those efforts
      led to the discovery of one or two parselmouth paintings in
      forgotten corners of Hogwarts in his sixth year. Imagining himself
      to be the only servant who could converse with the Dark Lord in
      Parseltongue, Severus spent quite some time and energy in learning
      the language. It was almost impossible to distinguish different
      types of hisses at first, but becoming a bat animagus in the
      meanwhile did offer him some additional benefits: as a bat, it was
      much easier to tell the tiny variations in sound. Then back in
      human form, Severus was finally able to learn the basics of
      Parseltongue. However, human vocal cords were definitely not
      designed to make hissing sounds. Severus tried really hard, but
      until his graduation, he could hardly utter a whole sentence in
      Parseltongue. When Severus really joined the Death Eaters, he felt
      himself extremely lucky that he had not boast of his abilities in
      snake language to anyone: the Dark Lord was too arrogant to accept
      anyone but himself to master his signature language. Yet, being
      able to understand some of his master's random hisses did offer
      Severus competitive edge over his fellow Death Eaters, not to
      mention that even the Dark Lord could not lie in Parseltongue. But
      Severus's happy days as a rising star in the Death Eaters soon
      finished when he realized that the prophecy he had brought to his
      master might endanger the woman he loved. In haste and in
      desperation, Severus first begged his master to spare her, then
      found himself a Light master. The days as a double-agent were no
      fun at all. If not for his advanced auditory systems and
      Parseltongue abilities, Severus would have died several times
      already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And today, Severus began to doubt both his auditory system and
      his understanding of snake language: the Dark Lord actually
      addressed the Boy-Who-Lived as if he could understand Parseltongue
      as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then it hit him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">The boy is actually a PARSELMOUTH?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before the bat animagus could fully understand the implications
      of this, he witnessed the creation of an impressive new body for
      the Dark Lord, and the rise of the nightmarish man. Even knowing
      that this man would soon be vanquished by Albus, Severus still
      needed to fight down his chills.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus realized something else: the Dark Lord did not use
      Harry Potter's blood, nor his father's bone, nor Bellatrix's flesh.
      He only used his own preserved blood and the mystical red
      stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus had not really walked the walks of really powerful
      wizards such as Albus Dumbledore or the Dark Lord, but that didn't
      hinder him from asking himself the obvious questions: <em class="calibre8">what the
      heck is that stone? The Resurrection Stone? The Philosopher's
      Stone? And what does it do?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Severus witnessed the recreation of Hermione Granger's
      body, even without a horcrux, only the corpse hidden by the
      Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">And with that stone, with that stone…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus then realized this stone could be the key to something
      that he had only dreamed of for so many years: reviving Lily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Lily passed away, Severus had been desperate to revive
      her, but he had no idea how. Of course, if Lily had made a horcrux,
      it would have been relatively easy, but she was too nice to even
      think of such a thing. This thought just made Severus sadder. But
      besides a horcrux, Severus had no idea how one could be revived
      after their death. There were those so-called sacrificial rituals
      in plays, and those plays usually ended up in horrible tragedies,
      in which an ugly sociopathic dark wizard like himself was the clown
      who got himself possessed by the devil. No, he was not to become
      that clown. He was to figure out some other way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew it was a pureblood tradition to magically preserve
      their deceased loved ones hair, and some muggles did something
      similar as well. With some unexplained dim hope, Severus stole some
      hair from Lily's body before her burial. Though Severus had stopped
      loving Lily as an idolized lover now, he still dreamed to apologize
      to a living Lily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And today, now, it dawned on him: if blood can be used to create
      new body, if flesh can be used to do the same, then hair…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now the tradition shared by purebloods and muggles alike made
      sense to Severus: it must come from an era when revival of
      somebody's loved ones was much easier, only some blood, or some
      flesh, or hair, or maybe anything… Yes, a single hair is enough for
      the Polyjuice potion, so it must be enough for the recreation of a
      body. Then perhaps I can revive Lily! And Albus! And mother…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stunned by this realization, Severus almost missed the next
      important part: the Dark Lord seemed to face something troubling
      enough for him to allow Harry Potter to have his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-This is not a good sign.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus heard Harry Potter's shouting:"Expecto
      PATRONUM!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even through whatever the Dark Lord put on for visual deception,
      even with the bat's poor eyes, he saw the unusual bright white
      light, the light as a blazing aura of silver fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus was trying to figure out what all that meant, he
      strained to hearsome of the Dark Lord's words: "<em class="calibre8">Your Patronus
      draws upon your life as well as your magic … happy thought the
      image of her returning to life … alive … magical …"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Having learnt quite some powerful magic himself, Severus
      realized that these were the key elements of this ritual, which
      could only be transferred from one mind to another. Here, now, he
      was only short of the technicalities of the rituals and the stone,
      to bring back everyone he loved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Severus could take any joy in this new revelation, he
      realized that he probably would not live to learn the details, or
      even survive the next hour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus's heart sank again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Perhaps, perhaps the boy will live, and bring back Lily and
      Albus. As for the oversized bat, well, a Fiendfyre would
      conveniently burn away everything, including his greasy
      hair.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus gave an internal sigh, and continued to watch as the
      Dark Lord made Granger a crossbreed of troll and unicorn. It was a
      very ingenious way to make someone essentially immortal. Severus
      pondered if he should figure out a way to leave a message of the
      powerful wizardry he witnessed tonight, but of course that would be
      all in vain since the knowledge could only pass from one mind to
      another.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Severus began to curse Merlin's Interdict, things
      developed quickly: the Dark Lord made a horcrux for Granger, the
      Boy-Who-Lived tried to kill the Dark Lord with a gun, and failed.
      But then the Dark Lord still gave Harry Potter detailed
      instructions on how to resurrect Granger again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was quite perplexed by the surreal development of
      things: why would the Dark Lord revive the Granger girl? True, she
      was kind, brave, and pure, which made her good for the use of a
      number of rituals, but there are dozens of such girls. Why such
      trouble?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the Dark Lord offered him some answers: "<em class="calibre8">Sseer …
      prophecy … apocalypsse … girl-child … destruction …</em> "</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Err, according to a Prophecy there would be an apocalyptic
      disaster if Granger stays dead?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus struggled to listen more closely while absorbing this
      information. It appeared that if Granger stayed dead, the
      Boy-Who-Lived would bring some disaster to the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then this made quite some sense to Severus. That Potter boy was
      capable of creating chaos far beyond a first-year's reach. And
      within a few years, the walking disaster would become a full-grown
      wizard, Lord of a Noble and Most Ancient house, AND with tonnes of
      muggle scientific knowledge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Growing up amongst muggles during the height of the Cold War,
      Severus was no stranger to the words such as "missile", "atomic
      bomb", and "nuclear war". When Severus joined the Death Eaters,
      part of him felt that by conquering the muggle world, the entire
      world would become much safer – who knew what those mad muggle
      politicians would do!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Though the Cold War had finished recently, if the
      way-too-creative Boy-Who-Lived was involved, he might create some
      horrific disaster in his desperate search for ways to resurrect
      Granger. Maybe he would think a lot of energy would bring back the
      dead, and construct a nuclear power plant to get the energy. If
      that plant blew up, and some muggle government may think they had
      been nuked, then, then… Well, the current Chernobyl area would seem
      like a paradise compared to what the world would look like
      then.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus wanted to bang his head against the tree trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Should I thank the Dark Lord for his great public
      service?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then the Death Eaters began to appear in the graveyard. Severus
      did not feel the call, maybe because he was still supposed to be in
      the hallucination, trying to rid the evil named Harry Potter from a
      pregnant Lily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Wait, the Dark Lord said in Parseltongue that there is a
      PROPHECY that Harry Potter may REALLY destroy the world!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus felt sicker as he thought of it, and no longer that sure
      about sacrificing himself to save Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus watched dully as Macnair tried to kill the Dark Lord and
      failed miserably. He might have given that man more credit for his
      act at any other time, but he was too preoccupied with the prophecy
      thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus heard some ominous words: "…disposed of
      Dumbledore…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">What? NOOO! If Albus is already dead, who would defeat the
      Dark Lord? Me?! The ELEVEN year old Boy-Who-Lived?!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was so concentrated on the how-to-defeat-Voldemort
      question, that he could hardly bring himself to reignite his hatred
      for Sirius Black when heard the bark, and the name "Mr. Grim". He
      just vaguely berated the idiot aurors who never found out that two
      Blacks escaped instead of one in the Azkaban episode.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was quite proud of himself in being a powerful wizard -
      not anywhere near the level of Albus or the Dark Lord, but still
      quite powerful. He could easily overpower Minerva, and could knock
      down Filius Flitwick within five minutes in any real fight without
      stupid rules. Alastor Moody might defeat him with his century of
      experience, but since Mad-Eye was getting old, Time was on
      Severus's side. And in the Death Eater ranks, Severus thought only
      Bellatrix could defeat him in a one-on-one fight, and only a
      handful could escape. But that was absolutely NOT the same as
      defeating thirty something Death Eaters AT ONCE, PLUS the Dark
      Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus suddenly hoped he had a really powerful muggle weapon at
      hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Wait, does the Boy-Who-Lived have a small nuclear weapon on
      him? And that was what the CRACK about?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus faintly remembered something he heard from muggle TV
      when he ate in some fast food place during the Christmas holidays.
      It said something about miniaturization of nuclear weapons. Severus
      had no idea of how small the muggles had made them, nor the power
      of a "mini" nuclear bomb. And with a shudder, Severus remembered
      something else from the muggle news: with the collapse of USSR and
      the end of Cold War, some nations were quite worried that some
      nuclear weapons may fall into wrong hands. Back then, Severus
      guessed it would still be quite hard to get one. But if the Dark
      Lord already got himself a rocket before the Azkaban breakout, it
      was quite possible that he also got a small nuclear weapon. And by
      some luck and creativity, the Boy-Who-Lived may get his hands on
      the trigger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Shit.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Severus's imagination took him to where the United
      Kingdom found itself being attacked by a nuclear weapon, thus
      firing one toward Russia, and the world entering nuclear winter,
      etc., Severus heard the Dark Lord made the Potter boy take an
      Unbreakable Vow that he would not destroy the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus almost could not suppress his gratitude toward his
      former master. Compared to the potential disaster, the fact that
      Lucius would lose much of his magic was nothing at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When later the Dark Lord tried to extract knowledge from the
      Boy-Who-Lived, and the Boy-Who-Lived tried to stall, Severus was
      too emotionally drained to think of any sensible thing to do. He
      only knew that when it came to time to fight, he would. And that
      probably would be the end of Severus Snape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus heard the fearful hisses coming from Harry Potter's
      mouth: "…<em class="calibre8">causse huge explossion almosst instantly…</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-NO, NO, NO! It does not matter that the boy thinks the
      explosion would not destroy the world, nor the Vow would prohibit
      him from doing anything really dangerous to the world, nor what the
      real damage this explosion could do! The fact is, the stupid
      muggles would multiply the damage hundreds and thousands folds by
      firing missiles toward each other!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Without thinking, Severus left the tree, and flew the fastest he
      could toward the Boy-Who-Lived, hoping to do SOMETHING to prevent
      the end of world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Severus hit the circle of magical deception, and was stopped
      by Time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Heck, the Dark Lord had set up some ward to prevent this
      circle's future interacting with its past! Is this going to be the
      reason that the world ends today?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Distracted by the fate of the world, Severus was still banging
      his head on the Time barrier when the heads of death eaters began
      to drop like butterflies, as well as the Dark Lord's hands. And
      then, Harry Potter's stunning hex hit the Dark Lord.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Dark Lord was screaming in pain, the previous pain that
      had hit Severus twice hit him again. The disillusioned oversized
      bat dropped from the air. In pain ten times worse than the
      Cruciatus curse, Severus was only partially aware of the fact that
      whatever barrier set up by the Dark Lord had went down together
      with the powerful wizard. Previous "training" from the Dark Lord
      told Severus not to scream when he was tortured, so the bat
      instinctively kept his silence. And the Boy-Who-Lived did not
      notice the sound of a bat dropping to the ground at all, nor the
      sound of a bat crawling its way to get nearer to him, maybe due to
      his own pain and fatigue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In complete amazement, the bat watched the boy as he oblivated
      the Dark Lord, and then transfigured his body into a steel
      ring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus let out a sigh of relief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">You do have to give the boy credit for his creativity. A
      much better way to temporarily seal the Dark Lord than anything I
      can think of. PLUS, he did not use any nuclear weapon that would
      cause chain-reactions in the muggle world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus now could allow himself to survey his surroundings
      beyond the Dark Lord and the Boy-Who-Lived. But before he could
      observe the altar for the revival ritual in any detail, he saw
      Lucius's head right beside him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus felt a wave of nausea. Lucius was not really his friend,
      at least not the type of friend like Lily, but he had been the only
      one that he could trust slightly more than other Death Eaters and
      Slytherins. Plus, they had shared some secrets, and enjoyed some
      witty talks over expansive drinks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew Harry would revive Lily and Albus for sure, and
      Lord Potter might even revive Eileen Snape if Severus really
      begged, but Lucius… if he hadn't made any horcruxes, his death
      would be for real. And since there were rumors that making
      horcruxes was ominous for one's offspring among purebloods, Lucius
      probably did not make any.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus did not know what he ought to do, but he remembered that
      the boy said something about keeping Granger's body at five
      degrees. Silently, Severus transformed back into human shape, and
      cast a wordless freezing charm on the head beside himself… plus
      several other heads that he did not resent too much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still debating within himself as what he should do with the
      Death Eaters' heads, Severus saw the Potter boy produce a gas
      filled weather balloon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">-Oh, that's the sound. Good, a normal gas explosion would
      not cause a nuclear war. It can't even penetrate my shielding
      charm.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus thought of the army of aurors that would come to
      investigate the graveyard. Needless to say, Mad-Eye and Bones would
      be among them. He began to have a headache. Not the kind of
      headache one has for the end of the world, but still quite some
      headache.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Boy-Who-Lived disappeared under the Cloak of
      Invisibility, and the balloon rose into the air, Severus knew he
      had about thirty seconds to decide what to do with all the
      heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just then, Severus heard a hoarse voice beside him, his own
      voice: "Gather the heads, you idiot! Oh, collect Quirrell, he was
      possessed by the Dark Lord, who knows how much powerful magic can
      be gained from his brain. The boy will turn back an hour, and will
      change his clothes in the first floor boys' bathroom. The
      instructions and the stone will be in his pouch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus instinctively gathered the frozen heads plus some other
      parts from various bodies with a wave of his wand, and stuffed them
      into his own pouch. With some amazement, Severus saw heads
      identical to those he had gathered flew out from somewhere beside
      him, and landed at where they had been. And a pouch identical to
      that of the Potter boy's was handed to him as well as the
      Stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Stone can make transfiguration permanent." Severus heard
      himself. "You know what to do!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, Severus knew what to do. He would follow the boy,
      turn back an hour, follow him to the bathroom, swap his pouch and
      the Stone, do whatever he needed to do within the hour, then come
      back and remind himself. After that, he would need to get back to
      the castle quickly again, and pretend to be someone who had just
      woken up from the nightmarish hallucination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Notes:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">1. According to canon, Parseltongue can be learnt, understood,
      and even spoken by people who are not Parselmouth by birth. Albus
      Dumbledore was able to understand that language in Book 6, and Ron
      Weasley was able to speak it in Book 7 (at least, good enough to
      open the Chamber of Secrets). Therefore, I assume, with reasonable
      intelligence and absolute necessity as Death Eater, then a spy
      against Dark Lord, Severus can understand Parseltongue to a certain
      degree, and can speak some very broken Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2. I assume that Severus's patronus changed from a doe to a bat
      after he stopped loving Lily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">3. I assume Severus's understanding of scientific knowledge and
      muggle society is only up to the level of an average adult muggle
      who received his education from public schools in a miserable
      neighborhood, aka, where Severus grew up. So he may know quite
      something about the nicknames of different drugs, and how to apply
      for unemployment benefits, but he does not know much science, nor
      how the muggle world operates outside the dilapidated ex-industrial
      town.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">4. I assume Severus does not know Harry well enough to
      understand that Harry would revive everyone someday.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
