<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 3 Choice, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Choice</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">June 17th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was a very normal day for the muggle world. If you were to
      turn the TV to the news channel, you would only see the normal
      day-to-day business: squabbles between Democrats and Republicans on
      the Capitol Hill, continued crisis in the Middle East, civil war in
      some third-world country that most Americans could not even find on
      the map, etc.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, for the wizarding world, this was the one year
      anniversary since the Boy-Who-Lived and the Girl-Who-Survived put a
      stopper on Death. – Well, more likely a stopper on wizarding death
      in the developed and semi-developed world, if you must ask for
      details.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was not that the Boy-Who-Lived would reject a dying poor old
      witch from Afghanistan to be treated by the Stone, it was just that
      wizards and witches from those places did not trust the western
      magical community, and there were vivid stories circulating that
      you needed to sacrifice your soul to gain immortality. -
      Considering the fact that a lot of those witches and wizards were
      around when their motherlands were colonies, it was no surprise at
      all why they might think that. And for some unexplained reasons,
      witches and wizards from developed countries did not spend much
      time or energy to clear things up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Muggleborn and half-blood witches and wizards had brought their
      loved non-magical ones to be treated in Hogwarts. The Boy-Who-Lived
      agreed to heal them on the condition that the muggles must be
      obliviated afterward, and no changes to their appearances would be
      made. For the doctors who treated the muggle patients previously,
      they were just unexplained miracles. Some muggle medical journals
      started to discuss the possibility that they had previously
      underestimated the self-cure rates of various types of cancer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the man, whom some muggle authorities might identify as
      John Wilson, got up from bed in his tiny government subsidized
      apartment in Oklahoma City, he thought with some irony that he
      needed to decide who to revive on this very joyful day for the
      wizarding world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The brown-haired, brown-eyed, and flat-nosed man looked at
      himself in the dirty mirror, and gave a grimace. He was not so
      pleased with this appearance, nor this identity. Given the choice,
      he would rather assume the identity of an inconspicuous middle
      class man with a clean history, so that he could attract less
      attention from muggle police. Unfortunately, those types of people
      rarely became nameless corpses in a muggle police morgue. Because
      he did not want to spend too much energy on hiding this particular
      identity that Mad-Eye Moody might find out anyway, the man known to
      Wizarding Britain as Severus Snape settled for a middle aged
      homeless man who died from drug overdose on a street corner. And it
      was not that the muggle police absolutely could not find out who
      the dead drug addict was, they just didn't spend too much energy on
      the question. With some persuasion and wand movements, a muggle
      detective soon had John Wilson's social security number, a copy of
      his birth certificate, medical records, and criminal history ready.
      Severus raised his eyebrows at the minor mental disability part of
      the medical records, rolled his eyes on the series of petty thefts
      and drug offenses, paid the muggle detective handsomely, and
      oblivated him as a standard procedure. But later, Severus did find
      the social security checks and food stamps associated with this
      John Wilson guy rather convenient, for that saved him some trips to
      the nearest Gringotts bank in Las Vegas, where he could change his
      gold and silver into US dollars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus drank his morning coffee, changed his eye color from
      brown to blue, adjusted his nose height and width of his
      cheekbones, and apparated to an isolated small farm near the Nevada
      desert. There, he was an upright thirty-four years old farmer named
      Michael Smith, who was home educated by his parents, and took over
      the farm after they passed away. It took Severus quite some energy
      to find such a suitable muggle who unfortunately died from a
      possible heart attack while working in the fields. Severus frowned
      at the foul smell of the corpse which had been there for at least
      three days, but the ease of assuming his identity was worth the
      price; this guy lived far away from any highway or muggle
      residence, had no living relatives, and wrote dairies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, John Wilson, Michael Smith, and some other muggles all
      became small gems in a jewelry box on a wooden table. Severus laid
      down another box beside it, where there were some other precious
      stones as well. Finally, from his pouch, Severus pulled out two
      locks of hair, one red and one black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus wanted to revive his mother and Lily most, but he was
      not that sure whether his first try on the ritual would be
      successful. If that failed, Severus was not sure whether it would
      be counted as "lost in a sacrificial ritual", and could never be
      regained. No, he could not risk these two lives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus then looked at the box of muggles, whom he did not care
      much either way. But the problem was, according to the conversation
      between the Dark Lord and the Boy-Who-Lived, he needed to put some
      happy thought on hoping them to live rather than die. Severus knew
      that tricking his own mind to care about those muggles would
      definitely add more danger to the ritual, so they were out of the
      way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for his Death Eater colleagues, Severus could only name a few
      that he cared for even a little bit. He didn't like Macnair at all
      when that man was alive, but he did give the man credit for raising
      his wand toward the Dark Lord. Yet Severus was not sure that amount
      of respect was enough. Despite his loathing toward Sirius Black,
      Severus was on OK terms with Regulus Black before that boy died.
      What a pity, that boy was not among the stones at hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That left only Lucius, literally the most venomous snake known
      to the wizarding world. Ironically, Severus could trust that man
      slightly above others exactly for this reason.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Severus first became a double-agent and a potions master in
      Hogwarts, he had desperately needed to improve his Parseltongue.
      One night, the bat animagus flew to the Forbidden Forest in hope of
      catching a magical snake, so that he could practice the language.
      When his echolocation system told him about a snake slithering near
      a small pond, Severus turned back into human form, and hissed to
      the snake: "<em class="calibre8">K…come b-back wis…with me.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The beautiful blue snake with black strips froze there, as if in
      shock to see a Parselmouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus realized one moment too late that this was a Blue
      Krait, which was definitely not a species kept in the Forbidden
      Forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as Severus was pulling out his wand, the snake twisted and
      swirled. A second later, two Death Eaters were pointing their wands
      at each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before either man could speak or utter a curse, a nearby frog
      chose this moment to croak, and both animagi had to fight down some
      very untimely saliva.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Somehow, this moment of awkwardness seemed to lessen the
      intensity in the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Malfoy opened his mouth first, with much better
      Parseltongue than Severus: "<em class="calibre8">Sssso, we mussst both worship our
      Lord a great deal.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To that statement, Severus could honestly answer:
      "<em class="calibre8">Yessss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say, Severus was quite aware of the difference
      between worshiping a powerful lord and being loyal to him. For a
      long time, Severus had suspected that Lord Malfoy only served the
      Dark Lord for the interests of House Malfoy, and there were other
      such speculators among the Death Eaters as well. If Lord Malfoy
      chose to ask about the loyal question to a random Death Eater in
      Parseltongue - given the other could speak Parseltongue as well -
      there was a good chance that the two Death Eaters would have to
      kill each other afterwards. Severus figured it would be good to let
      Lucius Malfoy consider him as one such opportunist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man with a snake head wand then hissed: "<em class="calibre8">Mussst not let
      otherssss know, in cassse they are jealousss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus consented to this immediately: "<em class="calibre8">Agreed.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus speculated that "they" included the arrogant Dark Lord
      himself. Of course, Severus would not ask such a stupid
      question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then after quite some hisses, more fluent from Lord Malfoy, and
      less so from Severus, the two animagi agreed to keep whatever
      happened tonight as a secret, and would not reveal the other's
      animagus form or the Parseltongue ability to anyone unless the
      other one agreed in advance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Malfoy pondered the black-haired rising star in Death
      Eaters for a while, then said: "<em class="calibre8">Would be good if we exchange
      information ssometimesss.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was exactly what the double-agent needed, but he could
      not appear too eager, so he answered vaguely: "<em class="calibre8">Maybe.</em>"
      Then he suggested: "<em class="calibre8">Can ma…make potion for you, for paymentsss.
      Good po…potioneersss rare today.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus hoped he had acted as if he was more interested in
      Malfoy's money than Malfoy's influence and "friendship".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Let him think that I am an arrogant young fool who did not
      quite know my real status.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The white haired man stopped for a while, then replied:
      "<em class="calibre8">Need to be sssecret. Potionsss ssserve and only sserve their
      purpossse</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Of courssse</em>." Severus answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Afterwards, Severus had made some interesting potions with
      dubious legal status for Lucius in exchange for handsome payments.
      Of course, Severus had to say in Parseltongue that the potions
      would do and only do whatever they were supposed to do each time.
      And, acting as if he was somewhat reluctant in the beginning but
      soon found out how useful this could be, Severus exchanged some
      not-so-important information and favors with Lord Malfoy. The vague
      alliance and "friendship" did not get a chance to really develop
      before the Dark Lord disappeared. In the peaceful years, their
      "friendship" consisted of mostly potion making for money and
      occasional small talks, since neither had much useful information
      for the other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, Severus had to admit the alliance did bring him certain
      benefits. At least, Malfoy house elves made amazing wines and
      "Cuisses de Grenouille", or so Lord Malfoy would call the French
      dish. Severus would simply call it frog legs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During the whole period of this "friendship", Severus did not
      forget for a single second that you could tell lies with entirely
      true statements, since he himself was a master of that art. But
      still, the fact that you could not tell outright lies in
      Parseltongue did make Lucius slightly more trustworthy than the
      other Slytherins. Plus, Lucius's son, Draco, was doing some serious
      jobs in redeeming Slytherin House, which was something Severus
      desired but could never accomplish himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus heaved a sigh, and picked up a white stone with blue
      stripes.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
