<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 5 The First Revival, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5: The First Revival</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">11:01 pm (Pacific Time), June 18th, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus did not know whether the Dark Lord chose approximately
      this time of day for the recreation of his own body for a reason or
      not, but he decided to go safe. And since even the Dark Lord would
      rather prefer his true body for the resurrection of Granger,
      Severus undid all magical and non-magical concealments, and
      revealed his black hair, black eyes, and his signature oversized
      nose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Beside the Smith family graveyard in their family farm, now laid
      an altar that Severus created. And upon that altar, there was a
      white stone with blue stripes. Severus pointed his wand, and said:
      "Finite Incantatem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stone became Lucius' head, preserved at five degree Celsius.
      The Death Eater's mask had fallen off when Lucius fell down and
      died, his white hair was cut short around his neck level by
      whatever magic the Boy-Who-Lived killed all the Death Eaters, and
      there were blood on his face and white hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus frowned a bit upon the blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Well, that could be somebody else's blood, which would
      complicate the whole affair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The black-haired man waved his wand, and got rid of all the
      blood. In this way, Lucius looked…more alive. Severus hoped this
      would help with the ritual. The Dark Lord did say some happy
      thought about that person being alive was important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus drew in a breath, knowing that this was the most
      difficult ritual he had ever tried, and spoke: "Flesh, flesh, flesh
      so wisely hidden."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The obelisks began chanting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Apokatastethi, apokatastethi, apokatastethi to soma hou emoi
      (emoi).</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Apokatastethi, apokatastethi, apokatastethi to soma hou emoi
      (emoi).</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flesh and bone oozed out of the neck, creeping forward and
      solidifying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus watched the formation of Lucius' shoulder, arms,
      torso, and legs, he could feel massive magic was drew from the
      altar, the land, and the air around, and quite some was drew from
      him. It felt like the type of magic that you could use up and
      regain, so Severus tried his best to sustain. And Severus
      understood why the Potter boy had not tried to revive anyone to
      Severus' knowledge: it just took too much magic the boy did not
      have yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the last toe was formed, the obelisks stopped chanting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus surveyed the naked form of Lucius in moonlight, and saw
      a body that was every part as beautiful and perfect as people
      rumored Lord Malfoy to be, the skin was without blemish, the
      muscles were well-toned, even his hair grew back to the full
      length.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Well, that's some happy thought I can use later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus took a chunk of red glass out from his pocket, and
      laid it upon Lucius' form. Severus knew this might be one of the
      two places where things could go wrong, but he had no choice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Back when he just took Potter's pouch, he knew for sure that the
      Stone was a key item for resurrection. He needed to duplicate the
      power of the Stone, somehow. He knew he needed a way to cheat, so
      he pointed his ward to the Stone and said: "Gemino."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">An identical looking red glass appeared beside the original
      one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew that items created by the doubling charm would
      decay over time, and any magical ability of the original item would
      decay much faster, but since the Stone could make transfiguration
      permanent… Severus put the original Stone on the fake one, and let
      it stay there for a minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So far as Severus had tested the fake Stone, it seemed to be
      capable of make transfiguration sustained for at least a year, and
      this capability could be renewed every ten minutes or so. Severus
      had transfigured the ear shape of a dog, and the fur color of a
      cat. Both animals seemed to be fine until this day. But recently,
      the renewal time of the duplicated stone seemed to get longer, and
      that was what made Severus really worry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Well, if I want to revive Lily, I can just go to the
      Boy-Who-Lived and ask. And since the boy would prefer Granger had
      her clothes on…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus waved his wand. Lucius' body was lifted to the air and
      surrounded by dead leaves. A moment later, Lucius was clothed in a
      Death Eater robe and let down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus frowned a bit at the Death Eater robe, and decided that
      was not good for any happy thought, so he changed that to an
      expensive looking formal robe with a wave of wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-That looks better now. Then, there is the second difficult
      part. Use the happy thought of Lucius being alive to fuel a
      patronus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus tried to gather all his good memories with Lucius, of
      the delicious frog legs made by Malfoy house elves, of all the
      witty talks by the fire, of the clicking gold he got from Lucius –
      no, that's not the right kind of happy memory, especially not the
      discussions on the interesting effects of certain potions, or the
      theories of some spells with dubious legal status.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus cleared his mind, and tried again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-The witty talks by the fire over expensive wine, the laugh they
      had after they successfully set up a trap and got Bellatrix Black
      into some awkward trouble…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">CRAP.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus decided to skip the "witty talks" part of his
      memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus remembered the few moments that Lucius did not
      appear all that witty or shrewd: the aristocratic patriarch who
      awkwardly asked if there was any potion that could stop a baby from
      throwing up the milk after Narcissa "died", the father who
      explained to his allies why he skipped an important Wizengamot vote
      to be with his injured son, and the strange man who formed alliance
      with the Boy-Who-Lived and seemingly helped his son redeem
      Slytherin…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus put all those memory into his magic, and shouted:
      "Expecto Patronum!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A bright bat flew out of Severus' wand tip and plunged into
      Lucius' body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-OK, life and happy thought about a living Lucius.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus drew in a breath, and tried again: the awkward
      aristocratic single father, the man who cared more about his son
      than a Wizengamot vote, the politician who conceded to his former
      enemies and helped Draco to redeem Slytherin, the wave of nausea he
      felt when he saw Lucius' head lying on the ground, the way Draco
      collapsed and yelled: "Father, NO! Don't die!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus wasn't too sure about the last two parts of his memory,
      but he tried anyway: "Lucius, come back from death! Expecto
      Patronum!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time, Severus put some of his life into his spell, and saw
      a round ball much brighter than any patronus he had produced before
      jumped out of his wand, and entered Lucius' body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus felt a lit bit of his life and magic was lost to that
      seemingly non-corporeal patronus, and saw Lucius started
      breathing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Errr, what happened to my patronus? Have I just sacrificed its
      corporeal form? And why is it so bright? Is that some sacrifice as
      well? Oh, damn Lucius, you'd better be really grateful!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now Severus looked at the breathing white-haired man, knew he
      had accomplished something great, and knew maybe this was his
      moment to walk the walks of great wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smiled to himself, and began to throw all the diagnostic
      spells he knew on Lucius. All the spells told him that the wizard
      lying on the altar was healthy in body albeit weak in magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-Poor Lucius, I guess I should thank you for your great service
      to the safety of the world. Oh, well, maybe I should use the memory
      of the Unbreakable Vow. That's definitely a happy memory for the
      entire world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus smirked, pointed his wand, and said, "Enervate."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
