<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>43. Revival - Revival Chapter 8 Friendship of Slytherins, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="43. Revival"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 8: Friendship of Slytherins</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">10:05 am, June 22nd, 1993</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus' transfiguration skills were not as good as Minerva's,
      nor were his healing skills as good as Madam Pomfrey's, but he was
      indeed one of the school's transfiguration authorities and Potions
      Master. During his ten-year tenure in Hogwarts, he had dealt with
      plenty of "creative" students and even two or three "ingenious"
      defense professors, and none of them had died on his watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, Severus was quite worried that his perfect record might
      break.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus knew his quick fixes on the idiots who tried free
      transfiguration on themselves could last for up to twelve hours,
      more than enough time to get them to Madam Pomfrey and St. Mungos.
      But the problem was, those dim-wit cretins usually only tried free
      human transfiguration on <em class="calibre8">parts</em> of their body. But for
      Lucius, every part below his neck was transfigured. Even if Severus
      put all his might into the quick fixes, and applied the duplicated
      Stone on Lucius for a minute afterwards, things would still go
      wrong within three to four hours. Afterwards, Severus would need at
      least one hour of rest to recharge himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What made things worse, the fake Stone was losing its power
      fast. Previously, the power of it could be renewed every ten
      minutes or so, now it was one hour and counting. Severus suspected
      that the renewal time would soon be more than four hours, in which
      case Lucius was definitely doomed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even now, when Severus still had time to rest, and the
      duplicated Stone was semi-working, Lucius had had a cardiatric
      arrest just two hours after Severus put the fake Stone on him, and
      Severus had to use his patronus to give Lucius another
      jump-start.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Severus still wanted Lucius to live - which he unfortunately
      did - he needed to get Lucius back to Britain, fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The most inconspicuous way was apparition. You could apparate
      your way from North America to Hogwarts, if you were willing to
      apparate a couple dozen times, going from Alaska to Russia, from
      Siberia to Eastern Europe, and finally from France to the United
      Kingdom. However, taking a fragile Lucius in side-along apparition
      in such a long journey was obviously a bad idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Severus was left with two options: the international Floo
      network, which was controlled by magical governments all over the
      world; and international Gringotts portkey travelling, which was
      operated by the goblins. Lucius had said that if what he knew a
      year ago was still true today, as long as you were willing to pay
      enough galleons for a first-class portkey, the goblins couldn't
      care less about who was traveling, or whatever or whoever was in
      your suitcase.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, the current plan was that Lucius would enter Severus'
      suitcase, Severus would take the suitcase, apparate to Las Vegas,
      make sure Lucius was alright before entering Gringotts, buy a
      first-class portkey to London, and then apparate to Malfoy
      Manor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From what Lucius gathered from the Daily Prophet, Malfoy Manor
      must have been on high security mode for quite some time, which
      meant Severus couldn't simply apparate or Floo there without prior
      permission from either Draco or Narcissa. And if what Lucius was
      guessing was true, Thief's Downfalls were much more common in
      Britain these days than before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Therefore, Lucius had suggested that Severus sent a message to
      Draco, stating that Severus had a message from Lucius to deliver to
      him prior to the event that Draco became the next Lord Malfoy,
      which was technically true. Then, Severus could travel using his
      true identity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In his total magical exhaustion and lack of sleep, Severus
      agreed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Severus was writing the letter to Draco with help from the
      ultimate Malfoy cheating guide, half-mindedly nodding to Lucius'
      endless praise for his son, some words suddenly caught his
      attention: "Severus, my brother, would you like to be Draco's
      godfather?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps Severus had had too much coffee and too little sleep
      during the past two days, but he was no fool. "What do you mean?
      Macnair was Draco's godfather, if I remember correctly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus almost let it slip that he had Macnair's thumb in his
      collections, but he closed his mouth in time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Does Lucius want me to protect Draco? What an ungrateful
      bastard! Like saving Lucius' life a couple dozen times is not
      enough! On the other hand, Draco is redeeming Slytherin…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius then began a tirade about how Severus was indeed his
      family and his brother now, to which Severus just wanted to put a
      silencing charm on. And then, "<em class="calibre8">I will never betray you
      firsst</em>", in Parseltongue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was suddenly more awake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Well, that's a statement that you can hardly expect from a
      Malfoy. And adding "firsst" to the end of it did make it more true.
      Maybe the pureblood is more grateful than I thought.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus decided to ignore the talking noises regardless. He was
      just too tired. He may consider Lucius' suggestion after he got
      some sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the white-haired man seemed to be quite determined to annoy
      his one savior. "Severus, this might sound rude to you, but I do
      have to ask. Is your father a muggle or a squib?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus was too tired and annoyed to hex Lucius now, so he
      answered: "Muggle. I guess a half-blood is not good enough for
      Malfoy's godfather after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius firmly denied the accusation, and began to explain what
      he learnt about the Boy-Who-Lived's theory about the inheritance of
      magic from feeding Draco with Veritaserum, that there was only a
      single "gene" that determined if someone was magical or not. Two
      pieces of the gene meant wizards; one piece meant squib; and zero
      meant muggle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This oversimplified version of Mendel's pea experiment gave
      Severus a good laugh: "Oh Merlin, then I must be a squib for sure.
      And you, saved by a squib! On the other hand, I could be a bastard,
      which is a happy thought indeed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">-<em class="calibre8">Oh, shit. How did I manage to say the last part out
      loud?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus glanced at the awkward looking blood purist who was busy
      apologizing, considered hexing him into oblivion, then gave up and
      dozed off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Note:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">According to canon, Severus Snape, Seamus Finnigan and Lord
      Voldemort's father were all muggles, not squibs. According to
      Pottermore, Minerva McGonagall's father was a muggle, and she had
      two brothers, both of them were wizards. And if Quirrellmort was
      telling the truth in Chapter 70 of HPMOR, at least he considered
      his father to be a muggle. If Harry's theory about blood was true
      or partially true, at least it is not canon compatible, or he has
      some serious explanations to do with the ultra-high mutation rate.
      Otherwise, it is possible that none of the half-bloods AND their
      wizarding parents realized that the non-magic folks in their family
      are squibs, which means their stupidity and ignorance are beyond my
      imagination.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
