<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>29. Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Zombie - Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Zombie, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="29. Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Zombie"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Note: This story contains major spoilers for Harry
      Potter and the Methods of Rationality. If you haven't read to at
      least chapter 94, turn back now. I don't own the rights to Harry
      Potter, nor the rights to Harry Potter and the Methods of
      Rationality.</em></strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The blood had been washed away. The terrace was immaculate,
      likely cleaned more deeply than it had been in hundreds of years.
      Yet it was still easy for Harry to find the exact spot, the
      junction of tiles where she'd drawn her last-for-now breath. He
      crouched down and placed a hand on it. Some part of his brain, the
      part that had internalized a hundred stories, had expected that the
      tile would still be warm to the touch, and when his fingertips
      found only cool stone the rational part of his brain had said a
      quiet I told you so. Hermione would probably have an empty grave
      somewhere, and the Headmaster would no doubt hold a funeral, but
      Harry wanted to say goodbye on his own terms. Not a final goodbye,
      just "see you in a bit". And for that, Harry wanted to be
      alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi Harry," said a familiar voice from behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spun around, whipping his wand out in the process, and
      found it pointed straight at Hermione Granger. He could see
      straight through her. He slowly lowered his wand back down and
      stuffed it into his pocket, then took a moment to look at her. She
      was the same girl, with bushy hair and large front teeth, and she
      was wearing her school robes. Her legs, thankfully, were still
      beneath her. She was translucent, and all the color of her cheeks
      and hair had faded into a light blue. Harry was vaguely reminded of
      the hologram of Leia in Star Wars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a ghost," he said. Somehow it sounded even more
      ridiculous out loud than it had in his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," she replied. She seemed like she was going to say
      something more, but decided against it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could feel tears welling up. He searched desperately for
      something he could say to distract himself. "Ghosts are just stored
      memories and behaviors with no awareness or life, accidentally
      impressed into the surrounding material by the burst of magic that
      accompanies the violent death of a wizard," said Harry. "You said
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said the ghost of Hermione, "Actually it was Lucretius
      Featherbottom, who wrote that in The Tides of Ancient Deaths."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it's true, isn't it?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," said Hermione's ghost. "I had a violent death. I
      can still feel the trolls teeth piercing through my flesh, if I
      think about it too hard." Harry winced. "But I don't feel that much
      different." She looked down at her hands. "I feel cold, and I feel
      sad, but I still feel like me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," nodded Harry. He'd thought that it would be years, or
      at least a single year as the lower bound, before he'd be able to
      see her again. And obviously this was just a pale reflection of the
      Hermione that had once been, but it was at least something. Not
      her, but a thing like a video or photograph. If he thought of it
      like that, it would be easier to deal with. "I'm going to bring you
      back to life," he said. It felt good, to say it out loud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd like that," said Hermione's ghost. "But if I'm not real, if
      I'm just a - a photograph, what's going to happen to me if you do
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?" he asked. "You'll be alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I mean … there's this girl in the first floor girl's
      bathroom, a ghost that they call Moaning Myrtle, and she's been
      there for ages," said Hermione's ghost. "If you somehow brought her
      back to life, do you think she'd remember fifty years of moping
      around a bathroom? Or would it all just fade like a dream? If you
      bring me back to life, what happens to the person you're talking to
      right now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," said Harry. "Well, um, I hadn't quite thought that of
      that. I'm not sure that really factors into things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not?" asked Hermione's ghost with a frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you're not really a … a person, I guess," said Harry
      helplessly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel like a person," said Hermione's ghost. She crossed her
      arms, then thought about it for a bit and softened somewhat. "I
      suppose what I actually feel like is a ghost, but what I'm trying
      to say is that other than feeling cold and sad, which I think is
      perfectly natural for someone that's died, I don't feel like being
      a ghost has changed me much."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd like to believe that you're really there, but that would
      mean believing a whole lot of other things that don't make any
      sense. I'd have to accept that there's something like a soul. And
      if there are souls then why don't muggles leave behind ghosts?"
      asked Harry. "Why aren't there any original discoveries by ghosts?
      I've been in Professor Binns history class the whole year, and he
      never deviates from the lectures or even seems to notice that I'm
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry," she said gently, "We've never had this conversation
      before, have we? It's original, isn't it? If I were just a
      recording, which I don't think I am, I couldn't make up new
      responses on the spot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unless I'm somehow projecting responses into you, like with the
      Sorting Hat, or Parseltongue, or Dementors, or any number of other
      phenomenon I've already been exposed to," said Harry. "Besides
      that, I've talked with a ghost before, and they're not really
      conscious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The only ghost that you've really been around is Professor
      Binns. Have you ever thought that perhaps Professor Binns is just
      like that? Your father taught at Oxford, didn't he ever mention
      professors that drone on without caring about their students? Maybe
      Professor Binns is the exception to how ghosts normally behave. You
      had a name for that, when you base all of your observations off of
      looking at a single example of a thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An n of one problem," said Harry distantly. She was making
      sense. The fact that she was making sense was a point in favor of
      her not actually being just the magical equivalent of a photograph.
      And she'd told him the title of the book she'd been quoting from,
      which might have been dredged up from Harry's own subconscious but
      was at least something that could be checked to put some
      constraints on the problem. "What do I think I know about ghosts,
      and how do I think I know it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do <em class="calibre8">we</em> think," said Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, we," replied Harry. "We think we know that ghosts are
      something like a recording of patterns but not actually conscious
      as such."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And we know that because I read it in Lucretius Featherbottom's
      The Tides of Ancient Deaths," said Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But how did he know it?" asked Harry. "He was a wizard, so he
      probably didn't do any experimentation. The same would go for other
      wizards or witches who wrote about ghosts. Maybe there's a way to
      take a reading of the place someone died, to see the magic
      associated with the ghost. Are ghosts even tied down to one
      physical location?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think so," said Hermione's ghost. "The Grey Lady didn't
      die in Hogwarts, I don't think, nor did the Bloody Baron." The Grey
      Lady was the House Ghost of Ravenclaw, and the Bloody Baron was the
      House Ghost of Slytherin. "The two of us could test that easily
      enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So the proposal of ghosts being imprinted also holds that they
      can somehow move from the place that they died?" asked Harry. "That
      sounds like a complexity penalty to me, but we'll have to research
      the magics involved. Tabled for now. Moving on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I'm conscious," said Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, but that doesn't mean anything," said Harry. "You're
      just saying that you've conscious, which you could fake by setting
      up a really simple Artificial Intelligence program like ELIZA. Even
      my mokeskin bag has a certain level of natural language processing.
      What we need is an operational definition of what it means to be
      conscious, one that we can run tests against." He didn't want to
      admit it, but for a moment it really did feel like the old days,
      back before all that business with Draco and the blood cooling
      charm. He still regarded it as a fantasy though, one last day with
      Hermione as a way to say goodbye. It was safer to think of it that
      way, so that his heart wouldn't break when he came back tomorrow
      and she couldn't remember anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Harry, "Let's do some quick tests."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," said Hermione's ghost. She had the same intent look on
      her face that she always got when a test was about to be
      administered. Hermione Granger had loved tests, and apparently her
      ghost did as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You give me a triplet of three numbers," said Harry, "And I'll
      tell you 'Yes' if the three numbers are an instance of the rule,
      and 'No' if they're not. I am Nature, the rule is one of my laws,
      and you are investigating me. You already know that 2-4-6 gets a
      'Yes'. When you've performed all the further experimental tests you
      want-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, we did this on our very first day on the train," said
      Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Harry. "Right." That was one of the little
      lesson-games that he kept in his back pocket at all times. He felt
      somewhat embarrassed that he'd forgotten they'd done it before.
      "Let me pick a new set of rules and we will at least be able to see
      whether you can do science. First, real quickly, can you still do
      math? What's eleven times forty-three?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Four hundred and seventy-three," said Hermione's ghost with a
      derisive snort. Hermione had always been excellent at math. It took
      Harry longer to get the answer than she did, and that was another
      constraint on the problem of what a ghost really was. They could do
      math, apparently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright," said Harry, "Good enough." He reached into his
      mokeskin bag and said "Dice," and then took five of them out of the
      bag that had appeared and put the rest back. He'd had vague notions
      of playing a game of Dungeons and Dragons at some point, back
      before he'd come to Hogwarts, and there wasn't any real reason not
      to keep a bag of dice in the mokeskin bag. Each of the dice had six
      sides. "This is a pretty famous one that you hopefully haven't
      heard of before. The name of the game is petals around the rose. I
      can tell you the result of a roll, but nothing else. Are you
      ready?" Hermione's ghost nodded, and Harry rolled the dice.
      4-1-6-3-6. "Two," Harry declared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's ghost stared at it. "Does the order matter?" she
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's for you to figure out on your own," said Harry with a
      faint smile. It was the first time that he'd smiled since - well,
      in a while.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Again," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">5-6-5-4-4. "Eight," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Again," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2-6-2-4-1. "Zero," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Zero?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Zero," Harry replied. "Come on, start generating some
      hypotheses, I don't really care if you get it, I just want to see
      if you can really reason."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well you may not care, but it's very important to me that I
      arrive at the correct answer on my own," said Hermione's ghost. She
      stared down at the dice. "So far, the range is eight to zero and
      the answers are even. But I need more data. I was thinking that
      perhaps you add, subtract, or multiply the dice, but that wouldn't
      give zero for that last one unless you could do something with
      order of operations. Two plus six divided by two minus four minus
      one would get an answer of zero, but that has a complexity penalty,
      and besides that doesn't fit with the previous two results."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry almost cracked a joke about her teaching math at Hogwarts
      when he remembered that she was dead. Professor Binns had gotten a
      job, but he couldn't imagine Hermione teaching basic math to people
      that were her age when she died. He could maybe imagine Dumbledore
      giving her the position though, because Dumbledore was insane. He
      didn't say any of that, and rolled the dice instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">6-5-6-2-2. "Four."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">3-3-5-1-1. "Eight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2-4-6-1-3. "Two."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">5-3-4-3-5. "Twelve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's the highest I've seen so far," said Hermione's ghost
      with a frown. "Odd numbers seem to give a higher result."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2-2-6-1-4. "Zero."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What was the name of the game?" asked Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Petals around the rose," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well that almost makes it too easy," said Hermione's ghost.
      "I could figure out that the answer's always even easily enough,
      and that it has something to do with which numbers are rolled. It's
      not a matter of adding and subtracting the numbers themselves, or
      anything like that, it's just a simple substitution and then
      addition. Six, four, two, and one are worth zero, five is worth
      four, and three is worth two. And it's called petals around the
      rose because you can imagine the center pip as the center of a
      flower, so on dice that have a center pip you count the outer pips,
      the petals on the flower."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got it," said Harry. He couldn't resist smiling. "Well if
      you could figure that out, then I don't think there's anything
      standing in the way of doing original research." He had trouble
      seeing how he would get around the projection conjecture. If he'd
      thought about Hermione becoming a ghost before she died, he would
      have had her write down a piece of information that was known only
      to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about memories?" asked Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not part of being conscious," said Harry. "Do you
      remember me lending you a book on neuropsychology when I was saying
      that brain damage disproves the existence of a soul?" Her ghost
      nodded. "Well, there are types of brain damage that make people
      unable to form new memories, but you'd still say that they're
      conscious, wouldn't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose," said Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Memory, at least long-term memory, doesn't have to be a
      condition for consciousness then. Obviously it's not preferable to
      be without the ability to make memories, but it's not a real
      impediment to consciousness." He frowned. "But we should do some
      tests on that later. It would explain why ghosts aren't known to
      have done original research, and why some of them forget what
      century they're in, and why Binns teaches the same history class
      every year. There's still the open question of what your brain is
      running on, since obviously you don't have any neurons firing
      anymore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," said Hermione's ghost. "I thought that perhaps it was just
      my soul taking on corporeal form." Harry gave her a funny look.
      "And yes, I remember that you don't believe in souls,
      obviously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just that -" Hermione's ghost began raising one finger
      "-there's no real-" her finger slowly moved up "-evidence." She was
      pointing at her own face. "Oh come on, you can't just use yourself
      as an example of a soul. Besides, we agreed that you were a ghost
      and not a soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can be both," said Hermione's ghost with an offended
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Brain damage disproves the existence of a soul," said Harry,
      though he was somewhat less certain of that now that he was talking
      to someone who didn't even seem to have a brain. "Phineas Gage got
      a metal rod through his head and began acting wildly different.
      This is pretty basic muggle science."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it doesn't apply to wizards," said Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" asked Harry. "Of course-" He stopped and closed his
      mouth. He'd been about to say "Of course wizards get brain damage,"
      but then he'd realized that he didn't actually know whether or not
      that was true. It certainly seemed like they should, but Harry
      didn't have any evidence that this was the case. It stood to reason
      that their brains were the same, since with the exception of the
      magic gene they shared the same genome, and could interbreed. Yet
      he'd never actually done any research to see whether wizards had
      the same brains as muggles. After all, a wizard's brain shrunk to
      the size of a walnut when they turned into a cat, and that
      certainly suggested that there was something odd going on with how
      they thought, even if that wasn't entirely indicative of a soul.
      There were many questions being raised by this line of thinking,
      and there was one very sensible course of action to take. "Let's
      see how far you can walk," said Harry, "I think it's time for us to
      do some research."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madame Pomfrey, do wizards get brain damage?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madame Pomfrey's eyes were wide, moving quickly between Harry
      and Hermione's ghost. "Oh Harry," she said softly, "It doesn't do
      to associate with ghosts, you'll only drag out the pain and sorrow
      of her passing." Madame Pomfrey's eyes were red from crying, and it
      occurred to Harry that he'd been somewhat of a fool to come here,
      and more of a fool to bring the ghost with him. He was sure that
      Madame Pomfrey was feeling the pain and numbness Hermione's
      passing, and she'd seen what the troll had done to the Weasley
      twins, it just hadn't been obvious until he took a moment to think
      about it. Harry himself had wanted to be alone just an hour before.
      But now there was a mystery to solve, and whatever Pomfrey was
      feeling, this was Important. If anyone knew about the affect brain
      damage had on wizards it would be the school's healer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just want to know whether wizards ever suffer from brain
      damage," said Harry. "Then I'll leave."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course they do," said Madame Pomfrey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry felt his heart sink. He wasn't sure why he'd wanted her to
      say no. Possibly it was because he'd still held out hope that there
      was something beyond death, some way that it wasn't the worst thing
      in the world, even if there was only an afterlife for wizards. Of
      course, the nonexistence of brain damage in wizards didn't mean
      that there was such a thing as a soul, and a soul didn't mean that
      there was an afterlife, but brain damage very much seemed to rule
      out a soul.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's ghost spoke up. "Madame Pomfrey, when wizards suffer
      from brain damage, do their personalities change?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Heavens no," said Madame Pomfrey, holding her hand to her
      chest. "Why would they? They get headaches, or black out, but I've
      never heard of anyone going to St. Mungo's with a different
      personality, at least not from something that happened to their
      brain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione turned to Harry and tried to smile, but it came out
      looking far too sad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," said Harry, "What about alcohol or caffeine? Wizards
      still have stimulants and depressants, and those change how people
      behave, so are you telling me that a soul is affected by those
      things too? We're talking about the same thing when we talk about a
      soul aren't we, an extra-physical thing that holds personal
      identity in some fashion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, certainly there are things that can temporarily act on a
      person," said Madame Pomfrey, "But none that change the way a
      person is forever, not down to their core. Even strong magics like
      a love potion wear off after a time, and the person will go back to
      normal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," said Harry, turning to Hermione's ghost. "That's not
      conclusive, we need to do more research. I mean, that would
      indicate that there's a difference between muggles and wizards, if
      we accept that's true, but that doesn't tell us what that
      difference is. I'm not going to say that I refuse to believe that
      souls exist, because if you live in a universe where souls exist
      then that's what you want to believe, even if it doesn't make any
      intuitive sense. And that doesn't actually answer the question of
      why muggles don't ever become ghosts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh dear," said Madame Pomfrey, "I'm afraid muggles don't have
      souls."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That - what?" asked Harry. He felt completely befuddled.
      "You're a blood purist?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no dear," said Madame Pomfrey. She adjusted her apron.
      "Though I'm certain Dumbledore will tell you otherwise, it's a
      simple matter of medical fact that muggles don't have souls, and I
      don't care how politically incorrect that might be to say in the
      modern age. I don't know a single healer who would disagree with
      me. That doesn't mean that we should treat them unkindly, of
      course. There are those who think that just because a person
      doesn't have a soul means that they're not a person at all, and I
      hold no truck with that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But … that's - how do you know that muggles don't have souls?"
      asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was one of the tactics that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named used,"
      said Madame Pomfrey, "If you feed a muggle Polyjuice potion, they
      won't be the same person anymore. They'll believe that they are
      whoever they were turned into, since there's no soul to provide
      constancy during the transformation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry opened and closed his mouth a few times. "That's, the
      security implications of that, if you had a captive muggle-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Were I you, I would say no more," said Dumbledore from the
      doorway. Harry hadn't heard him come in. "You have a penchant for
      novel solutions that might be used against you by your enemies, and
      it is clear that Hogwarts itself is no longer entirely safe from
      those enemies." He nodded towards Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, why didn't you tell me any of this?" asked Harry.
      "There were precautions that I could have taken to ensure that I
      wasn't-" he caught the Headmaster's look "-that no one was able to
      Polyjuice into me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Precautions you weren't already taking, or that weren't already
      taken for you? Your robes are charmed," said Dumbledore. "They
      capture and evaporate any stray hairs, along with other material
      that one might use in such a potion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt his head spinning. If a transformed muggle would end up
      with the same brain as a wizard when Polyjuiced, that would mean
      that you could take a willing or unwilling muggle, feed them
      Polyjuice, and then have a tied up copy of your enemy. From there
      you could feed them Veritaserum, or use Legilimency if they weren't
      an Occlumens (and how did that even work, was Occlumens explicitly
      magical or could it be learned by anyone who wanted to go through
      the mental exercises?), and break the enemy's security protocols
      wide open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe that this is a conversation that might be better had
      in my office," said Dumbledore. Harry nodded. "Miss Granger, you
      are welcome to join us as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked down the corridors of the castle in silence.
      Hermione's ghost didn't walk, but instead floated, with her hair
      waving behind her and her feet pointed towards the floor. She
      hadn't done that before, and Harry momentarily worried that it
      meant she was becoming more ghost-like before his eyes. He
      desperately wanted her to stay as she was, the best companion that
      he could have hoped for in his time at Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're floating," he said. "You were walking before."
      Dumbledore turned to look between the two of them, but kept moving
      all the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would float too, if you could," said Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to admit that it was true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The reached the spiral staircase, and Dumbledore said the
      password, "Cockroach clusters", which was another kind of sweet. It
      was terrible security. Harry had a letter in his mokeskin pouch
      that contained a list of every kind of sweet. The letter was a
      Howler, a type of magical letter that said things when it opened
      up, and it had only taken a half day to figure out how to get it to
      say those things really fast. If Harry ever wanted or needed to get
      into the Headmaster's office, it would be as simple as opening the
      Howler and having it iterate through the list. Of course, there
      might be other forms of security to get past, but it paid to have
      such a weapon in his arsenal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat down in the over-stuffed chair in front of the
      Headmaster's desk, and Hermione stood beside him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had feared you would become a ghost," said Dumbledore to
      Hermione in a low and heartbroken voice. "Ghosts form most often
      from those afraid of death, and your friendship with Harry Potter
      would seem to have provoked that fear in you." Hermione lowered her
      head, feeling the sting of being chastised even from beyond the
      grave. "I have failed you in more ways than one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster," said Harry, "Why didn't you tell me that ghosts
      were like this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore raised his eyebrows. "You and I had a conversation,
      long ago, on the nature of souls. You quoted Featherbottom to me,
      and I assumed that you had made up your mind on the matter of
      ghosts. As I recall, we moved on to much firmer evidence, the Veil
      of Souls chief among them, and you rejected that evidence as well.
      I have not often found that arguing against someone who has made up
      their mind to be good practice, as it tends only to firm their
      opposition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glowered at him. "And why was I never told that there's
      evidence that muggles don't have souls?" That wasn't technically
      true. He'd been told by Draco and simply assumed that it was blood
      purist idiocy without a shred of evidence to back it up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I shall have to speak with Madame Pomfrey about what's
      appropriate to say to children," said Dumbledore. "There are
      competing theories on the matter. Some say that muggles have no
      souls, while others contend that it is simply a matter of the way
      that wizards interact with magic, and that muggles have an immortal
      soul which continues on just the same without being seen or felt, a
      position that I regularly take in the Wizengamot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I put a Polyjuiced muggle into an MRI machine, what would I
      see?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A muggle device, I presume?" asked Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A magnetic resonance imaging machine, it's used to look at
      someone's brain," said Harry. "You can map out changes in the brain
      on a coarse level."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," said Dumbledore. "I have not tried it myself, but my
      experience with Animagi would suggest that their brain would change
      along with their body. Harry, how did you think that an Animagi was
      able to continue to think, if souls did not exist? It is only
      through the will of the person's soul that the animal form can
      think and act as a person would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought," began Harry. He stopped to think for a moment. "I
      thought that perhaps the brain was shrunken down in size and
      rewired to provide the same response to stimulus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you realize what an extraordinarily complicated bit of magic
      you propose?" asked Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're already turning people into cats!" Harry practically
      shouted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A cat is a known form," said Dumbledore, "And thus much easier
      to work with than the hybrid that you propose. Polyjuice potion is
      extraordinarily expensive and difficult to create, and you believe
      that on top of changing one person into another, it leaves the
      brain as a constant?" He shook his head sadly. "I sometimes forget
      that you are only in your first year, and then in conversations
      like this is becomes apparent. We have schools for a reason, to
      teach you the limits of what magic can and cannot do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the Headmaster. "So you're saying that magic
      keeps a fully up to date copy of my - of my essence, my
      personality, my feelings and thoughts. And if I were to drink
      Polyjuice potion, magic would keep all of that going without an
      actual brain." He turned to look at Hermione. "And that's what
      happened to Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You put it in odd terms," said Dumbledore, "But that is
      essentially correct."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do we fix it?" asked Hermione's ghost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is no way to undo death," said Dumbledore, which Harry
      didn't believe for a second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I stop being a ghost?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would be like dying all over again," said Harry. "If you
      can keep living as a ghost, why wouldn't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's cold," said Hermione's ghost. "Cold and sad. I'll never
      grow up, never see my parents again, or have my first kiss or get
      an Outstanding on my O.W.L.s. Ghosts can't even eat. Would you want
      to live like this, if you could never do the things that bring you
      pleasure?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I would," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a terrible thing to say, Harry Potter," said Dumbledore.
      "Hermione, I am sorry, but someone who becomes a ghost stays as one
      forever. There are ways to motivate them, or to keep them
      contained, but once you become a ghost you are chained to this
      realm forever, never to pass into the next."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a ghost forever?" asked Hermione's ghost. She began to cry,
      and Harry's heart broke just a little bit more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not so bad," Harry began. She turned away from him, and
      fled from the office, going straight through a wall. For a moment
      he made to go after her, but settled down in his chair and glared
      at the Headmaster. "Souls exist," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They do," replied Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the Veil that you spoke of earlier, you believe that souls
      pass through it into the next world?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do," said Dumbledore. "You have said that it is an
      uninteresting fraud, I recall, but it was built with magics more
      powerful than those known in modern times. The Veil predates the
      Ministry itself, which was built around it to contain it. Perhaps
      it was a mistake to have you raised by muggles, if you believe
      wizards to be so stupid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That proves nothing," said Harry, though it did somewhat lower
      the odds that it was a fraud given the trouble that someone would
      have to go through and the scrutiny that the Veil would presumably
      have been under. "Even if I were to accept that souls exist in some
      form or another, that says nothing about the existence of an
      afterlife." Harry turned and looked backwards, in the direction
      that Hermione had fled. "I should really go after her." He got up
      from his chair and turned to leave.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, I will not prohibit it, but nothing good can come of a
      continued relationship with the ghost of Miss Granger," said
      Dumbledore. Harry nodded but said nothing, and continued down the
      stairs. When he got there, he found that Professor Quirrell was
      waiting for him. Somehow, he wasn't surprised.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have heard," said the Defense Professor, "That you have been
      making inquiries into the nature of the soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was," said Harry. "The Headmaster said some things that made
      me think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh?" asked Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you believe in souls?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," said Quirrell. "It's obvious that they exist to
      anyone who gives it the merest thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps I'm asking the wrong question," said Harry. "What
      exactly is a soul?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the animating intellect, the spirit, and the essence of
      being," said Quirrell. "It is what exists beyond the body. Animagi,
      Polyjuice, paintings, photographs, ghosts, all these work on the
      principle of the soul. There is even legend of a dark magic which
      can be used to split the soul, such that a wizard can survive
      beyond death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was very quiet for a long moment. "Why don't muggles have
      souls?" asked Harry. "Why are they different?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Walk with me," said Quirrell. Harry did, not really paying
      attention to where they were going. "Of all the questions to ask,
      you ask of muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My parents," said Harry, "What does it mean that they don't
      have that same extra-physical personhood that wizards appear to
      have?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They cannot think," said Quirrell. "Not like you or I. They
      have memories, which can be obliviated or charmed away, but do you
      know what you see if you attempt Legilimency on a muggle?" Harry
      shook his head. "You would see nothing at all. No thoughts going on
      behind their eyes, no animating spirit. It's like looking at a
      perfectly flat lake, undisturbed by wind or wave. And if you want
      to replace that calm surface, it's as simple as giving the
      slightest push."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shuddered, and hoped that Quirrell wasn't speaking from
      experience. "They still speak though, they still think and dream
      and laugh," he said in a rush. "They've written whole treatises on
      the nature of philosophy." Harry suddenly wished that he'd read
      more of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Empty words," said Quirrell. "The product of a mechanical
      process, or electrical impulses and chemical reactions. Have you
      never wondered whether there was really something animating the
      muggles? With magic we can look into their minds and see. Wizards
      have souls, and muggles do not. It is incontrovertible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just because you can't see anything with Legilimency - no, I'm
      sorry, that's the wrong tactic to take here. Let's say for a moment
      that muggles don't have souls, that there's not some extra-physical
      identity tied to them. That doesn't mean that they don't think the
      same as you or I. Their psychology is identical, or near enough.
      They behave in the same way that we do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yet there's nothing behind their behavior," said Quirrell. He
      gave Harry a strange look. "Do you not see that? Perhaps you would
      need learning as a Legilimens for yourself. But even with a
      Penseive the difference is clear. A muggle's memories do not take
      on the same biases and warpings as a wizard's do. Their memories
      are of crystal clarity, untainted by thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggles practically invented bias," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They convincingly fake bias," said Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry said nothing. He was distinctly uncomfortable without
      having access to the same body of facts as everyone else. There
      were a number of books in the library about souls, though most of
      them were in the restricted section, and Harry hadn't taken the
      time to look through them. He'd thought that they were just fluff,
      the same kind of thing that you could find in a muggle bookstore,
      empty speculation that was pulled from thin air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to gather more data," said Harry. "If I take the soul
      hypothesis as it's been presented to me, there are still a few
      things that don't make sense. The Killing Curse, for example. You
      said that it works on anything with a brain, and Professor
      McGonagall said that it works by separating the soul from the body.
      But muggles have brains, I'm completely sure of that, and if you
      were right then the Killing Curse still kills them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Killing Curse does two things when it strikes the body,"
      said Quirrell. "First, it cuts the soul away from the body, if one
      is present. Second, it immediately stops all electrical activity in
      the nervous system of the creature so struck. The first method is
      useful only against wizards, the second against nearly everything
      else, with a few notable exceptions such as ghosts, which have no
      body to cut the soul away from or nervous system to shut down."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how do you know this?" asked Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have heard of the Dark Wizard Grindelwald?" asked
      Quirrell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The one Dumbledore defeated," said Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," replied Quirrell. "Grindelwald had a burning curiosity
      within him that is common to the dark wizards. He wondered, as you
      did, what would happen when someone was struck by the Killing Curse
      after they'd had their soul removed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How … how do you remove a soul?" asked Harry. "How is that even
      possible?" Something tickled at his memory, a discarded scrap of
      information marked as not true. "Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell nodded. "Dementors do not act simply to inspire fear
      and drain happiness from people. They will plant their bony lips
      upon your face, and you will have no urge to stop them, and they
      will suck your soul straight from you. It was this dark magic that
      Grindelwald used. In fact, it is still used to this day as a means
      of execution by the Wizengamot. What's left behind is a body, brain
      still apparently active and heart still beating, but utterly
      soulless. No memories, no thoughts, a blankness that cannot be
      faked or recovered from."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's terrible," said Harry. He felt nauseous. "That's nearly
      the most terrible thing that I can imagine. Why? Why do it that
      way, why not simply kill them dead? Is it retribution?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Imagine for a moment that you had seen the Veil which sits at
      the heart of the Ministry of Magic, around which the government of
      magical Britain had been built." Quirrell had something feral in
      his eyes. "Imagine that the wizards who held control of the Veil
      had tried certain courses of action, nothing like science, but
      killings directly in front of the Veil to see the movement of a
      soul in flight. Not the wizards of today, but those of Merlin's
      time perhaps. Imagine that there is this artifact, which by all
      accounts seems to lead to the afterlife, and imagine the thousand
      tales of what lies beyond. The Wizengamot certainly doesn't know
      what the next world might contain, but surely it occurred to them,
      as it would likely occur to you or I, that criminals pass through
      the Veil as well. Criminals, heretics, dissidents, and dark
      wizards, all would have to be defeated a second time, and in many
      cases a second victory was not such a sure thing. If there exists a
      method to rid yourself of an enemy completely and forever, well, I
      should hardly think that they would stand on a moral high ground
      and not use it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're preparing for a war," said Harry. He felt the blood
      drain from his face. "They're preparing for a war in the afterlife,
      whatever it might be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell let out a humorless laugh. "Mr. Potter, what stakes did
      you think we've all been playing for?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked to the terrace. His head was still swimming with
      all the things he'd been told. He had no idea where to begin with
      assessing their truth values, and that was only a precursor to
      figuring out what to do next. Yet he had to go talk to Hermione, to
      convince her that everything was going to be alright. It was what a
      good friend would do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hi Harry," said Hermione's ghost. She floated above the cleaned
      tiles. "I think I'm a ghost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry only nodded. He'd steeled himself against that response,
      but it stung all the same. He'd read up on books about dealing with
      ghosts, on the ways of speaking to them, and he'd special order
      muggle books about dealing with people who'd suffered from
      anterograde amnesia. Hermione lived on, in a crippled form, but
      he'd restore her to life if it was the last thing he did. The day's
      revelations had changed little, only piled on more mysteries to
      solve; he was still going to have to optimize the world.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
