<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>The Last Enemy - HPMOR Chapter 114: The Last Enemy, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="The Last Enemy"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 114: The Last Enemy</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">For a moment, Harry stood frozen, the sheer mind-numbing horror
      of seeing his <em class="calibre7">parents</em>, of <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> being tortured
      and then sent to Azkaban to remember it until they died, alone with
      the voids in the world and their own pain freezing his tongue, and
      then a fierce, aching desperation began to well up in his heart,
      because</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I promised I would destroy death.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Voldemort was not the phoenix's defiant cry, he was no
      defeater of death but one who used it, who flew from it and ever
      tried to escape.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord Voldemort defeated death with yet more death.
      Harry Potter used magic and life, the Patronus Charm, the Lightest
      of all magics, to destroy and vanquish death forever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And if Harry could do that, then could he not also do this?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then a memory rose: Voldemort, in his Quirrel disguise,
      seated upon the grass in Hogwarts, telling him that no one truly
      cared enough to destroy death for the sake of a friend, and then
      kneeling before his parents' grave and seeing the engraved epitaph
      that repudiated everything Voldemort thought to be true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the Lord Voldemort was darkness itself, irredeemable: how
      could Harry, in sixty seconds or less, hope to convince Voldemort
      that death was not to be feared and manage to persuade him of how
      <em class="calibre7">utterly horrible</em> sending people to Azkaban was?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The answer was simple: you couldn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except. . . hang on a minute. Because if Voldemort was Harry, or
      rather, Harry's not-longer-mysterious dark side, then. . .</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Then I</em> already <em class="calibre7">convinced him, in Azkaban, when I
      repaired the hole in my anti-Death defenses.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the stubborn, Gryffindor side of him that did things like
      sacrifice twice his bank vault to keep Hermione out of Azkaban and
      be willing to kill himself to destroy the Dementors within Azkaban
      wouldn't let him give up without at least <em class="calibre7">trying</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">The last enemy that sshall be desstroyed iss death,</em>"
      Harry hissed. "<em class="calibre7">That iss the unofficial motto of my family, and
      it iss written upon my parentss' grave. The brotherss who made the
      Cloak and Resurrection Sstone made the decission to desstroy death,
      and their quest was passsed down, through the yearss, until it hass
      fallen to me.</em>" Harry drew in a breath, for this was the moment
      in which he would succeed or fail, and if he failed then the future
      of nonexistent death would fail as well and the promise of the
      night sky would never be fulfilled. "<em class="calibre7">Sso you ssee, Lord
      Voldemort, that we</em> aren't <em class="calibre7">alone, there are otherss who
      have dessired to desstroy death and we are not, and have never
      been, unique – "</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Enough</em>," Voldemort hissed, hand slashing through the
      air in fury. "<em class="calibre7">Iss that all you could give me, boy? The
      information about the brothers might have interessted me, but you
      have ussed it only to try and convince me of the goodnesss of
      people."</em> The last words were spat out as if they were poison.
      "<em class="calibre7">You have ssaved no one, now. They will die within Azkaban, and
      know as you are sslain that you have failed them."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Lord's words were a knife to his heart, and Harry
      wondered briefly where he could have failed, but then –</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Voldemort does not know or comprehend Good. He admitted it
      himself, that he has made mistakes that could have been averted by
      being Good. That is a power he knows not, and the Patronus Charm is
      fueled by the desire to save others for the purpose of saving them,
      not for some later gain to himself. The prophecy said we are
      different spirits, and we cannot exist in the same world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With that decided, with the pure knowledge of his looming death,
      Harry felt a sudden surge of determination, for there was nothing
      left to constrain him, his life was numbered in seconds, and if
      there as any road, any pathway he could take to save those he
      loved, then there was nothing left to stop him from taking it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Nothing, that was, save the Unbreakable Vow, but as that was a
      neurological pattern rather than some foreign consciousness
      invading and forcing him to conform as with an Imperius Curse,
      there was nothing that made Harry think of it yet.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Power the Dark Lord knows not</em>, Harry's brain prodded.
      <em class="calibre7">What doesn't the Dark Lord know?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The True Patronus Charm</em>, Harry supplied helpfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">What else?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The Side of Good, the Light and everything that it is and
      which embodies it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Harry remembered the defiance in Fawkes' eyes, the
      clear and shining note of refusal as he screamed in opposition to
      Death –</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Dumbledore didn't have Fawkes with him, in the
      Mirror.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which meant –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Voldemort opened his mouth to give the order for the Death
      Eaters to fire, he had only the time it took for sound to reach the
      Death Eaters' ears and the time it took them to cast the spell to
      live –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the phoenix was faster, and barely had Harry flung the
      message calling him to action, naming the time for Death to be
      destroyed and screaming that that time was <em class="calibre7">now</em> then Fawkes
      was there with a screech of wild defiance and the blazing heat of a
      wildfire. The Death Eaters let out cries of shock and Harry saw
      Voldemort raising the gun and pulling the trigger, before the
      phoenix's claws wrapped around his shoulder and the image was
      consumed in the flame of phoenix teleportation.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ignited in the air above Azkaban, and for a long moment he
      was consumed with the burning hatred of the wounds in the world and
      the politicians who had decided that they would make good,
      reliable, <em class="calibre7">safe</em> jailers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Harry noticed that he was confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But didn't that Vow make it impossible for me to do things
      like this, things that might destroy the world? And even if this
      was "the lesser destruction", why should I still be able to do it
      without confiding in Mr. Grim?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a long moment, Harry simply hung in the air, puzzled. That
      made no logical sense, the Unbreakable Vow should have kept him
      from considering the possibility of calling Fawkes to destroy
      Azkaban, now that he knew it was the last resort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But. . . inherently, what about destroying the Dementors was so
      dangerous and/or world-ending? What should make the Vow want to
      stop that?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It could possibly be that <em class="calibre7">simple</em>, could it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Harry realized what had happened, and if the situation
      weren't so dire he probably would have broken something laughing,
      and as it was he did let out a few small chuckles. It was
      gratifying, however, to note that Harry wasn't the <em class="calibre7">only</em>
      one capable of screwing up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Because I swore that I would take no chances with an
      opportunity to save the world, and by my own mental patterns, even
      taking into account my identity as a possible instrument of
      destruction (and since the</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Vow was sworn by me, it's</em> my <em class="calibre7">mental patterns that
      are important here), I would never even</em> remotely <em class="calibre7">consider
      the idea of destroying the Dementors anything</em> but
      <em class="calibre7">something with the capacity to save the world, thus ensuring
      that I</em> had <em class="calibre7">to do what I just did to fulfill the Vow. In
      fact, one might even argue that the Vow was the</em> only
      <em class="calibre7">reason I thought of that in the first place.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry straightened up as much as he could while hovering in
      midair in the clutches of a phoenix, still smiling, as he prepared
      to cast the spell that would fulfill the promise of the night sky,
      no matter what might come after.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then someone said, "Harry Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry yelped and turned to look at the speaker, meeting the eyes
      of an Auror on a broomstick, who was currently staring at him in
      shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry abruptly remembered the fact that he was completely naked,
      and then he was roughly shoving his embarrassment aside and
      steeling himself for the task ahead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need you to contact Director Bones as soon as possible and
      tell her that the Dark Lord Voldemort is resurrected, and tell her
      to contact anyone else and take any action she sees fit so long as
      she does not send <em class="calibre7">any</em> messages to Albus Dumbledore,
      contact <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> at Hogwarts until <em class="calibre7">at least</em> after
      11:45 in Hogwarts' time zone, or have anyone with this information
      travel back in time to before one hour before 6:45, upon pain of
      temporal paradox. <em class="calibre7">Do it!</em>" he yelled when the Auror
      remained blinking at him in shocked confusion and slowly dawning
      horror. With luck, the Aurors wouldn't happen upon Voldemort's
      hidden graveyard, especially since Harry hadn't time-traveled to
      get here, just used Fawkes –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Speaking of which.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry drew in a long breath, his hands shaking ever so slightly
      as he remembered the shining starlight and the Earth glittering
      within it, and as Fawkes lowered them down to the pit of Dementors.
      The wounds in the world were already beginning to rise from the pit
      towards him, their aura of despair rushing around him, and for all
      that he had been so lost and alone before, Harry felt nothing but
      resolve now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death," Harry said,
      and Fawkes screamed his defiance in the face of Death, the warmth
      and light that promised a future without farewells, without
      darkness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The future of the children's children, where Death was a story
      that belonged to the long-ago past of Ancient Earth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought of watching the sun sink beneath the horizon,
      looking into that little sliver of light left and knowing that
      there were those who would not bow down to the darkness, no matter
      what happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter thought of the Hermiones of the world as he drew in
      the breath that might be his last and his wand twitched once,
      twice, thrice, four times –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He thought of the Peverell brothers, who created the instruments
      that would defend against death, though not defeat it, and their
      oath that had transcended the generations, as his fingers slid
      along the wand –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he thought of the prophecy, and of the final, ominous line:
      <em class="calibre7">for those two different spirits cannot exist in the same
      world.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But also a message of hope, for he and Lord Voldemort could not
      exist in the same world, for the Patronus and the Dementors could
      not exist in the same world, but if they met, one would be
      destroyed forever and never return.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it was not the Patronus who would disappear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's wand swung upwards, and for a moment there was complete
      silence as the world waited for what would come next –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then a young boy's voice, wavering but filled with a
      determination that might have, in another world, torn the very
      fabric of reality apart, rang out over the central pit of
      Azkaban:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">EXPECTO PATRONUM!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Azkaban was surrounded and suffused with blazing light,
      brighter than a supernova, a shining light that could be seen from
      space by any with magic, as the wounds in the world screamed in
      terrible dying agony and the determination of the Boy-Who-Lived
      flooded into his Charm and burned Death itself away.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes slowly flew up towards the highest level of Azkaban,
      where Harry could see a small cluster of figures gathered at one
      corner of the triangular structure. Harry's wand was still in his
      hand, though more out of an automatic instinct to keep holding onto
      his wand at all times than out of any gesture of readiness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes carefully brought them in to land so that Harry would
      settle gently onto his feet, but the moment the phoenix was no
      longer holding his weight Harry proceeded to collapse bonelessly to
      the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Someone get a healer, right now," a woman's voice barked, and
      then Director Bones was kneeling on the ground next to him, steely
      eyes boring into his.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter," she said coldly, "why, <em class="calibre7">exactly</em>, did you
      just kill the Dementors and leave Azkaban undefended?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death," the
      Boy-Who-Lived said for what felt like the thousandth time, his
      voice cracking in exhaustion. "What separates us from the Darkness,
      Madam Bones, is that we care about the lives of others than
      ourselves, and not for the use they can be to us. The True Patronus
      Charm works by looking at death and promising to oppose it, by
      taking the bright things that power the lesser charm and promising
      to do whatever it takes to defend those things, no matter what it
      may cost you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dementors are voids in the world," Harry continued into the
      silence, his voice faint and wavering. "They are the path through
      which the light is drained from the world; they are Death made
      manifest. But we can end it. We can destroy the wounds forever; we
      can ever destroy death, if we can find the strength within us to do
      it. The True Patronus Charm can revive the dead – I have done so
      myself, not hours ago. But you must have the strength to do
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?" someone said, voice weak and wavering. "How can we –
      "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Think of all things bright," Harry said, focusing upon the
      warmth of the phoenix at his side, and drawing strength from it as
      his vision darkened. "Think of everything you love and care about,
      and promise to protect them, now and forever until death and from
      death itself, and then cast the Charm. It will not fail you – " and
      the Boy-Who-Lived closed his eyes.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
