<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Moore &amp; Boole - Moore &amp; Boole Chapter 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Moore &amp; Boole"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"The thing about Harry Potter is he never did his own
      paperwork." The boorish conversation opener echoed around the
      cluttered office; it was allowed to echo not because it's speaker
      was alone but because it's intended recipient simply allowed it to
      do so."I mean to say" Boole continued unabated "Have you ever added
      up how many, good or evil, died during the battle of Hogwarts, each
      one of those is another fatality form, another explanation to be
      given for use of deadly force, and sooner or later someone up top
      is gonna get fed up with 'dark times called for dark methods' as an
      excuse." The pause for breath was minute "And then before you know
      it we'll have legislation calling for us: US, you and me my friend;
      to start filling out those forms <em class="calibre7">before</em> we use deadly
      force: then, we are truly fucked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sigh. There was no point. If the challenge went unanswered for
      long enough Boole would form his loose argument into a true rant
      and before you knew it he'd take the rant outside of the safety of
      these offices and then...well it was better to shoot down his hopes
      of original thought now rather than let them fester.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why are we fucked? Because Harry, god almighty, Potter
      doesn't have time to do his own paperwork."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't understand." Uttered Dirk, turning his chair slightly
      towards his assistant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's there not to understand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Firstly your understanding of the Potter situation is deeply
      flawed. Secondly your understanding of the meaning behind paperwork
      is poor at best." With that Dirk turned his chair back and
      continued staring at his rubber band ball.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another tiny pause then:"How is my understanding of Potter
      flawed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter has been labelled officially as a 'Victim'; he is
      therefore excused from official duties on the grounds that, and I
      quote the report, 'he has been through enough'. Now we could sit
      here all day and argue over what in God's name 'enough' is supposed
      to mean; but given that this argument is with you I severely doubt
      that we would get anywhere close to the interesting parts of that
      discussion centred around the ambiguity of the law; suffice to say
      facing you-know-who a million times and finally besting him is
      almost certainly sufficient."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boole began to interrupt but failed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In answer to your next question: this paperwork is not being
      read by someone high up; our paperwork, which is to say your
      paperwork, is to be filed away in draws and cabinets nobody cares
      about, in area's of space nobody even knows exist, so that in a
      thousand years time teams of magical historians can know in
      laborious detail how the entire wizarding war went down. No, just
      stamp the papers. I'm thinking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still don't get why you don't have to do any paperwork"
      Muttered Boole</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dirk reacted, as Boole knew he would, be tapping the little
      plaque attached to his desk. This little plaque was the triumph of
      Dirk's career. After years of campaigning and letter writing he had
      finally persuaded the new head of magical law enforcement that his
      assortment of special skills required a certain amount of mental
      head-space. And since no other wizard was capable of thinking a
      swiftly, sharply and shrewdly and him he deserved the right to a
      'field work only' pass. After the head of department had said there
      was no such pass he reliably informed her that he had filled the
      paper work for the creation of such a role months earlier and it
      had just been approved; nothing more needed to be done other than
      to grant him the position he had been made for. Or rather that had
      been made for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A contented sigh escaped Dirk's lips.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course there had been a cost, there was always a cost to
      these things, but he could cope with being pushed to a back office
      deep within the auror department; he could even cope with the
      slight reduction in his wages that meant Boole could be taken on as
      his assistant with minimal expense. No it was all something he
      could cope with. As long as he could recline in his chair and spend
      his time just thinking...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Today it was the rubber band ball, small about the size of a
      muggle baseball he levitated it up to eye level and rotated it
      around and around looking at it's contours and grooves, enjoying
      the slowly spinning globe for what it was. And then Boole spoke
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you thinking about anyway?" He said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">was</em> thinking about Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A deep sigh, very well, thought Dirk, lets see if you can handle
      this, "Well you've read Harry Potters official account of what
      happened haven't you?" He said aloud.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I skimmed it, all that stuff about the deathly hallows and
      such, you don't actually believe that shit do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My belief or lack thereof is unimportant; What <em class="calibre7">is</em>
      important is Dumbledore. Harry claims Dumbledore was master of the
      elder wand, having won it from Grindelwald."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But by definition the elder wand cannot be beaten in a
      duel"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if Grindelwald was the master of the elder wand, how did
      Dumbledore best him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A beat hung in the air, as Boole realized they had reached the
      crux of the questioning; chances are this was a test and Dirk knew
      the correct answer; but he couldn't just say that: unless that was
      the correct answer and it was a meta-test. But he couldn't say that
      cause it'd look like he wasn't really trying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He cheated?" Boole suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What great, noble, good to the point of infuriating Dumbledore;
      cheat his childhood best friend out of a wand? Unlikely"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay then there is no elder wand after all, it is just a legend
      and these events seem similar to it"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But then why did Harry need the elder wand to defeat
      you-know-who? Why did he have to become master of the hallows, why
      mention it in the report?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know drag Harry Potter in and interrogate him on it;
      I'm sure that'd please the boss no end"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What on earth would be the point in that? If his report's true
      he won't know how Dumbledore won the duel either he'll only know it
      was another thing he never thought to ask Dumbledore"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then what's your solution?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if" spoke Dirk now getting up and pacing the room his
      rubber band ball following after him "What if the elder wand is
      real but is not a physical wand? What if it's a state of mind or a
      mental idea, and if that's true then when Harry meant to destroy
      the wand he instead merely became it's heir which means in turn
      that the-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was cut off by the arrival of a bright red paper aeroplane
      whizzing through the office door. Dirk deftly caught it in one
      hand, turned it over and read quickly the instructions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Grab your muggle coat" He said excitedly "We have a case."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
