<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Moore &amp; Boole - Moore &amp; Boole Chapter 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Moore &amp; Boole"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Dirk Moore walked quickly; so quickly in fact that his assistant
      Quentin Boole has to almost run to keep up. In fact walked here is
      a misnomer, because what Dirk achieved was not mere walking but
      rather a glide; having cast minor elevation charms on both of his
      shoes, his feet and lower legs achieved a kind of weightlessness.
      He wasn't actually flying or even floating indeed to the naked eye
      he was doing nothing more than walking, albeit walking very
      quickly. But Dirk estimated with his elevated walking technique he
      was able to save on average 6.4 minutes every working day, which
      worked out at over 24 hours saved every year. Just think what he
      could do with that time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boole found his bosses heightened pace little more than a
      nuisance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do we know?" Asked the assistant, anxiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing, just a location" said Dirk "so far." With that Dirk
      pulled a mobile phone out of his pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do know the head of department has never turned hers
      on?"offered Boole helpfully. Dirk had instigated the switch-over to
      muggle communications technology 4 years ago. So far only half a
      dozen witches and wizards owned a phone: but it was a start.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why, for the love of god, would I phone the head of department
      for information about the case?" He hit speed-dial 1 "Jackie
      Hi...oh you know perfectly well what I want the question is what do
      you want...well I'll have to-...done. Tell me everything?" He hung
      up, just as they were coming out of the lift.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So?"Asked Boole</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Homicide. 50 year old male wizard. Been dead for 10 hours.
      Found after he failed to show up to work, he was head of a potions
      ingredient procurement firm, office job. Massive sign of a
      struggle, duel to the death by all counts. Neighbours didn't report
      anything to the muggle police. House is a wreck being held together
      by magic. Area is cordoned off and under control. Died of
      strangulation, probably a root binding curse, or rope charm;
      unlikely to be anything unforgivable, but we can't rule that
      out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Reckon it's the work of a left over death eater?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unlikely. For one thing he's a pure blood with no known death
      eater enemies, for another 80% of known death eaters are accounted
      for and as Death Eater hits go this seems a bit random."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does he have a name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would it affect the case if he did?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They apparated into a muddy football field on the outskirts of
      the muggle village of Siddington; by the time Boole appeared Dirk
      was standing dry under a hovering muggle umbrella. He quickly tried
      to cast water repelling charms on his clothing but he was already
      soaked to the skin. Dirk was striding off into the hammering
      rain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whose on the scene?" Asked Boole trying to keep things
      light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Matterhorn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A large man, Matterhorn greeted them at the gate, his burly
      physique was covered in a thick raincoat, he stood awkwardly in
      patchy damp trousers and waterlogged boots. Foot patrol Aurors
      weren't allowed to enchant any items of issue clothing, and one
      look at Matterhorn's face could discern his four letter long
      response to this protocol.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Detectives Moore and Boole I take it you had a pleasant walk?"
      Auror Protocol required that with the sealing off of the area came
      anti apparition charms to prevent tampering with the scene.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, thank-you." Dirk said curtly</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been told to brief you on the case-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That won't be necessary" said Dirk, already striding up the
      garden path</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We were briefed on the way." Said Boole by way of explanation
      as he awkwardly slid passed the auror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dirk strode into the dwelling, with Boole following shortly
      afterwards. They were in a small porch the ceiling was unnaturally
      curved and half a glance could have told you it was being held up
      by magic. They edged carefully into the living room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The evidence of a fight could not have been more obvious, blast
      holes pot marked the walls, bits of the curtains appeared to still
      be on fire, sofa's were upturned, stuffing and plaster littered the
      floor; the stairs had caved in leaving a mottled debris covered
      carpet hanging from the upper floor. A lonely enchanted scrubbing
      brush was in vain trying to wash up the wreckage, slowly taking
      each shard of destroyed cutlery and scrubbing at it furiously
      before neatly stacking it on the draining board.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you see Boole?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's...a mess-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not of the room, of the man." Interrupted Dirk "Look. Modest
      collection of books, has read most of them, few old school
      collections, quite a lot of muggle fiction. Ah Tv guide, man liked
      his muggle comforts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dirk you're rooting through a pile of logs and ash." Said Boole
      incredulously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This was clearly a bookshelf." Uttered Dirk as if nothing had
      ever been more obvious. "Now over here a muggle television; on a
      stand." Dirk was now looking at what Boole would have called half
      melted bits of plastic on the floor. "Built in DvD player, no
      stereo system, I'd have to say early 2003 Panasonic model." Said
      Dirk triumphantly "Aren't I brilliant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dirk I think you're missing something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?!" Said Dirk, suddenly agitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The body, Dirk." Said Boole gesturing to the large wizards
      corpse in the centre of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh that," Said Dirk with a a nonchalant wave of his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dirk squatted down to look at the dead wizards face. He was a
      modest age, mid fifties with dark blue eyes and grey hair beginning
      to creep onto the edges of his scalp. He was wearing a thick dark
      blue rain coat with big pockets and turned up collar with navy
      jeans and heavy walking shoes. His wand was tightly gripped in his
      left hand which lay limply at his side. Bruising was evident around
      his entire neck, his mouth hanging open trying to catch a last gasp
      of air that would never come.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anything intriguing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still only Matterhorn's Trousers." Replied Dirk</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, Sure...What!?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Patchy, half damp with the rain but half dry; wet right leg and
      a half dry right, our friend Matterhorn has been sitting around the
      job."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What nonsense, he was standing to attention when we got
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boole looked puzzled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happens to Magic after we die Boole?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It err, well it... goes away? Doesn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It fades, it's not a light switch, enchantments that we've set
      slowly give way over the next few days after our passing; depending
      on the power of the wizard of course; so what if our dearly
      departed friend here had a defence enchantment set on the house
      designed to alert him to the coming of other wizards; not a
      complicated thing to set up, or even hire a private company to do
      these days, few hundred galleons they'll promise you all the
      protection in the world; but this wasn't one of there's oh no this
      has the ring of personalized magic; so we apparate in start walking
      here, Matterhorn outside picks up the glimmer of the remnants of
      the security system; it's masters dead it's desperate to tell
      someone the house is in danger; he gets a feeling of unease,
      worries his boss is coming and what she'll think if he's sitting
      around out there and stands to attention just in time for us to
      come round the corner; but not long enough to even out his
      trousers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boole was speechless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," continued Dirk "He knew his assailant was coming, but he
      didn't leave? He came downstairs and put on a raincoat, thinking he
      had time to leave; but his killer was too quick; he bursts in and
      the fight breaks out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why put on a raincoat and not just apparate out of here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe he thought he had more time than he did, these security
      systems rarely get tested until it's to late, certainly he never
      made it outside his coat is dry as a bone. Ah, unless I'm very much
      mistaken our peace is about to be disturbed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Were you listening to what I said about the security
      system?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dirk had no time to Chide his assistant for at that moment this
      imposing figure of the head of magical law enforcement strode in,
      her emerald robes billowing behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What in the name of the Dark Lord are you doing here?" She
      thundered.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
