<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 10 - a Poor Sort of Memory, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s13" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 10: a Poor Sort of Memory</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: I wrote this entire chapter one way, set it aside, wrote it
      again in an entirely different plot direction, then once more in a
      third. This is the second, and best (I think). I don't know if this
      is how authors normally work, but throwing away writing is
      <em class="calibre7">painful</em>. Still, it's hard to argue with the results
      (unless this chapter is rubbish, I suppose, then it's easy).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Edit: Thanks to monstrousbird from r/rational for the Britpick
      on "bleachers"!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 10 - "...a Poor Sort of Memory…"</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione did not wake, per se - she simply found herself to be
      not asleep. She was no longer in the Library… In point of fact, for
      a moment she wasn't certain <em class="calibre7">where</em> she was, so unfamiliar
      was the scene, though the general architectural style suggested she
      was somewhere in Hogwarts. Many people moved about, a few with
      urgent speed, but most slowly, bearing obvious injuries or a deep
      weight of sorrow. No one paid any attention to her whatsoever. It
      was the ceiling that made her realize this was the Great Hall, its
      powerful enchantment showing the dark, star-filled sky beyond,
      streaked with smoke and flashes of strange magical
      after-effects.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the tables and seats were all gone, save a couple turned
      onto their sides as makeshift barricades. Many of the people
      present stood or knelt over wounded, or even-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione tried to grasp what she was seeing. One of the Weasley
      Twins was lying terribly still, and beside him, her face and hair
      unmistakeable, Tonks, the Hufflepuff from the train. Her unmoving
      hand was clasped in the hand of an unfamiliar man, equally
      lifeless. What she could only presume was the rest of the Weasley
      family was crying over the dead boy - except he wasn't a boy… Even
      prone, it was obvious the Twin - and it bothered Hermione a great
      deal that she wasn't sure which one - was even taller than she
      remembered, sturdier...adult. Tonks too, for that matter, though it
      was less obvious from the position of her...her b-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione started to walk closer, solemn but desperate to
      understand, but stopped in her tracks. Another young brunette woman
      - who had been embracing one of the Weasleys - had turned her head
      slightly to face Hermione. For a bizarre moment, she thought it was
      her mother. But she was too young, and there were differences here
      and there. In fact, now that she thought about it, the woman
      actually looked more like-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Great Hall went dark and swimmy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was in a strangely decorated living room, cramped and a
      little cluttered - from the slightly askew style, she presumed it
      was a Wizarding home, but very comfortable, for all that. There
      were a bunch of adults, and young adults, standing in a rough
      circle, each holding aloft a small glass of liquid, all swirls of
      rich amber and orange.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mad-Eye," said a flame-haired man, and everyone else repeated
      it. Including <em class="calibre7">both</em> Weasley Twins, and Tonks, looking very
      much alive but distraught, and from the scar and glasses what was
      clearly an older and much more put-together Harry Potter, along
      with an equally older but still not-terribly-put-together-looking
      Ron, and that same woman who she was almost <em class="calibre7">certain</em>
      was-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mad-Eye," added the Groundskeeper, Mr. Hagrid, with a maudlin
      hiccough. The room went dark and swimmy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was outdoors, near a small cottage. There were people
      standing near an oddly tiny grave. She was just close enough to the
      edge to make out the caricatured features of a house-elf, a woolen
      hat crammed onto his head. The strange older Harry and Ron were
      there - Harry looking devastated, Ron looking awkward in bare feet.
      His arm was around a brunette in a dressing gown, looking an
      absolute mess, her hair everywhere, her eyes puffy and reddened
      from tears, her face terribly pale. There was also a young blonde
      woman in a coat, looking a little disheveled, another thin blonde
      woman in an apron who was somehow almost <em class="calibre7">offensively</em>
      pretty, and the orange-haired man who'd started the toast in the
      previous...whatever <em class="calibre7">was</em> going on-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good-bye, Dobby", said Harry, terribly quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The unnamed-but-probably-Weasley gave a solemn wave of his wand
      and a nearby pile of earth gracefully filled the grave, piling up
      to slightly above the level of the ground, and the scene went dark
      and swimmy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was in her parents' living room. They were sitting beside
      each other on the sofa, and staring almost directly at her, but
      they didn't seem to see her, or indeed anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum? Dad?" Hermione, alarmed, waved a hand before their eyes,
      even leaned forward and poked her mother's knee, but there was no
      response whatsoever. It was quiet enough in the room that she could
      hear their breathing, and nothing else. But something made her turn
      her head, and in the doorway to the kitchen, out of their line of
      sight, the woman from the Great Hall, who kept drawing Hermione's
      attention, was <em class="calibre7">casting spells</em> on them, and she was using
      Hermione's wand or one that looked unreasonably like it, which
      pretty much clinched her impossible suspicions if she was willing
      to accept them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman wasn't saying anything aloud, just making gesture
      after gesture, complicated swoops and curls and nested twists that
      Hermione could barely follow, let alone identify. But she finished
      with a very simple gesture, one Hermione <em class="calibre7">did</em> recognize,
      and a single word, rough with emotion but precisely enunciated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Obliviate</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione lunged forward to try to shield her parents, but the
      spell somehow ignored her, and the room went dark and swimmy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was in a room she didn't recognize, but it was very finely
      appointed in a Wizarding way, all crystal and mahogany and
      tapestries. There were various people standing about - a hunched
      little man with a silver hand, a much taller man wearing a ragged
      fur coat who had strangely stretched - almost bestial - features. A
      trio of mutually light-haired people stood close to each other, a
      man and a woman and an older boy, who - despite his inexplicable
      age - was quite recognizably Draco Malfoy...looking not appalled,
      exactly, but neither entirely sanguine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But all eyes in the room, Hermione's included, were focused on
      the last two people present. A woman in a tattered black dress,
      somehow both beautiful and sickly at the same time, her hair black
      and wild, eyes crazed and fixed with her wand towards the same
      young woman from the Great Hall, dirty and disheveled in casual
      clothes, her face terribly pale and streaked with tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What else did you take, what else? ANSWER ME! <em class="calibre7">CRUCIO!</em>"
      shrieked the dark-haired witch, and the younger woman writhed under
      the Unforgivable Curse, releasing a horrible extended scream, which
      broke only just long enough to draw enough breath to begin the
      scream anew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione couldn't bear it and turned away, covering her ears
      with her hands, and she could <em class="calibre7">still</em> hear it. But
      mercifully, after a moment, the screaming - <em class="calibre7">her</em> screaming
      - faded away as the room went dark and swimmy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was on the grounds of Hogwarts, near the Great Lake, beside
      a white marble table. Dozens, hundreds of chairs faced it, in neat
      rows. So many people, many she didn't recognize, but a few she did.
      All the school staff, a great many students, the grown versions of
      which she was starting to find familiar, including herself. Her
      other-self's face was streaked with silent tears quite different
      from the ones she'd just seen. There were <em class="calibre7">centaurs</em>
      present, and Mr. Hagrid was at the back, next to a <em class="calibre7">giant</em>,
      and Hermione wondered what <em class="calibre7">that</em> was about, but at the same
      time she knew she was deliberately focusing on irrelevant details,
      the implications of the sombre mood and arrangements were obvious
      even without the benefit of her earlier...whatever-they-were's…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione forced herself to look at the table, and saw the
      Headmaster's body. Even as shock struck deeply into her, she
      wondered how it could have happened - he wasn't that old by
      Wizarding standards and he was widely acknowledged as the most
      talented wizard in Britain, if not the world. As she watched,
      uncomprehendingly, the table erupted in shockingly intense white
      flames, though even as close as Hermione stood, they seemingly gave
      off no heat, and there were screams of startlement from within the
      attending crowd. The blinding fire rose higher and higher, until
      there was no sign of the body, or indeed the table. But as quickly
      as they'd started, the flames vanished, and only a white marble
      tomb was left behind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The gathering went dark and swimmy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was on a small grassy clearing, at the edge of what seemed
      to be a large hedge maze. Facing it were a large set of seats set
      in stands, packed full of people. Most were too far away to make
      out, though she could vaguely recognize herself, sitting next to
      Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Directly before her was Harry Potter, still looking older than
      he ought to, but not nearly so much as before. He was clutching a
      shining trophy of some sort in one hand, while his other was
      latched firmly around another boy she didn't recognize, perhaps a
      couple years older than Harry - this Harry, rather.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked dazed and pale, his left leg was bleeding badly,
      and his right arm nearly as much. The other boy bore various small
      injuries, but his eyes stared sightlessly. The Headmaster was
      leaning over them, alive, obviously, but his face ashen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry released the trophy and grabbed Professor Dumbledore's
      wrist, not releasing the other boy's body. He still seemed dazed,
      but he pulled his face close to the Headmaster's and whispered with
      a fearful intensity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's back. He's back. Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Everything</em> went dark and swimmy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was in the hospital wing. She was lying on the floor, facing
      the ceiling, and a young woman in healer's robes was leaning over
      her with a concerned expression, her wand out. Nurse Wainscott?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Mobilicorpus</em>," said the nurse, and Hermione felt her
      body grow light and drift up from where she'd apparently collapsed
      to the floor. She glided easily over to one of the beds and drifted
      gently down upon it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, fearing the worst, looked around anxiously to discover
      who was dead <em class="calibre7">now</em>. But the other beds were empty of bodies,
      living or otherwise, there was no one else here other than the
      healer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," she murmured. "Something is...you can see me...you can
      hear me?" Madam Wainscott nodded, her expression uncertain but
      reassuring.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, just relax, take slow, deep breaths. You apparently got
      here just in time. I should've been faster to get you into a bed,
      but...does anything hurt, did you hit your head when you fell?
      <em class="calibre7">Revelo volnus.</em>" This last was murmured as she waved her
      wand over Hermione's body from head to toes. Hermione didn't
      <em class="calibre7">feel</em> any pain, though her head felt a bit foggy, as if
      she'd just woken up from an uneasy sleep. Sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something put me to sleep," Hermione said, suddenly. "Something
      possessing me, a ghost, maybe? But then I saw...I don't know
      what...visions of horrible things...I think of the future. People
      dying, maybe <em class="calibre7">me</em> dying...You-Know-Who coming back...and I
      was always there...<em class="calibre7">older</em> me, I mean..." Her voice dropped
      a bit as she continued, mostly to herself, "I really ought to have
      read more about Divination, but most of the books implied it was
      extremely unreliable at best…" Madam Wainscott nodded, as if what
      Hermione had said were the most normal thing in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. None of it was real, only a nightmare, best just not to
      think about it at all…" she said, in a tone that Hermione had come
      to recognize from adults, one which she - ever so slightly -
      loathed. She tried to sit up angrily in the bed, but light pressure
      from the nurse's hand against her shoulder was sufficient to make
      this impossible - she must still be a little weak, shaking off the
      sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. I'm not <em class="calibre7">sick</em>, this is <em class="calibre7">important</em>," she
      insisted, trying to make her voice stern in lieu of whatever
      confidence came from being upright. "Something is happening to me,
      and horrible things are <em class="calibre7">going</em> to happen...it's not a
      hallucination, it's…" she trailed off for a moment, realizing she
      still wasn't entirely <em class="calibre7">sure</em> it wasn't a hallucination. What
      if she <em class="calibre7">did</em> have a brain tumor or something? "There's a
      note, in my bag, upside down...it says things…" Though Hermione
      once again remembered that the cryptic notes had been in her own
      handwriting, and wouldn't really constitute evidence of anything
      one way or another - even to herself, if she were honest about
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you...what is the last thing you remember?" asked the nurse,
      looking...concerned, but not exactly alarmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd been in the Library, studying, then I saw these strange
      notes appear - or <em class="calibre7">re</em>-appear, I think - on the bottom of
      the parchment, and I was trying to understand them and I had some
      sort of...memory isn't exactly right, but I don't know what to call
      it, and I thought I might be possessed and I should tell an adult,
      but then it put me to sleep on my way out of the Library. I saw a
      bunch of horrible things, mostly people being dead, and then I woke
      up here." Madam Wainscott's eyebrows rose, but she still didn't
      look as alarmed as Hermione thought she ought to. Come to think of
      it, Hermione herself no longer felt that strange sense of alarm
      that had affected her so strongly in the Library when she'd
      announced her intention to tell someone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't remember hearing a spell cast on you, or walking
      here, or speaking with me?" Hermione blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...no. What?" The nurse turned a bit, examining the labels on
      a variety of potion bottles on a rack against the wall as she
      spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You walked in just a few minutes ago. You said that you'd heard
      someone - you didn't see who - cast a spell on you…'<em class="calibre7">Confundo
      Oraculum Maximo'</em>, and you weren't sure what it had done but
      your head 'felt peculiar', so you came here, and explained, and
      then you collapsed before I could get you into a bed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">I</em> said…? But...that's not right…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'<em class="calibre7">Confundo Oraculum</em>' is a nasty variation on the
      Confundus Charm, called the 'Seer's Hex'," explained Madam
      Wainscott as she turned back to Hermione, a bottle in her off hand.
      "It makes you <em class="calibre7">convinced</em> you can see the future, you see,
      as well as fogging your thoughts and memories around to prompt you
      to see things you want, or more often, fear. Normally it the
      certainty fades away of its own accord in an hour or two, along
      with most of the 'visions'. But that <em class="calibre7">Maximo</em> makes it
      something quite beyond that, I don't even know the name and
      I...ah...don't know the proper countercurse, assuming, hopefully,
      there <em class="calibre7">is</em> one...I'll have to do some reading and consult
      the Professors." The young woman was clearly trying to portray
      confidence, but she couldn't hide a bit of nervousness. "Honestly,
      I'd just use a Forgetting Charm, but-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">No!</em>" shouted Hermione, and this time she was able to
      push herself up, sliding back in the bed away from the nurse. She
      made a calming motion, which, given it was with her wand hand, did
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> reassure Hermione in the slightest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Easy, Miss Granger, easy. I was just saying I <em class="calibre7">can't</em>
      Obliviate you because that sort of magic doesn't interact well - or
      safely - with Confunding effects. And the <em class="calibre7">effects</em> are
      lasting, but the spell itself isn't sustained, so there's no point
      in a <em class="calibre7">Finite</em>. If we can't find a specific countercurse,
      well, you may just have to do your best to put all this out of your
      mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at her as if she were insane, and immediately
      recognized the irony in that thought. Either way, getting angrier
      and pointing out how <em class="calibre7">impossible</em> a task she'd casually
      suggested probably wouldn't help. And she still wasn't sure what to
      think...if she <em class="calibre7">was</em> possessed, it actually sounded like a
      rather clever story to discredit anything she might say afterward -
      the only confusing flaw in that was that it had
      <em class="calibre7">discouraged</em> the nurse from just making her forget the
      whole thing. On the other hand, if schizophrenia or something
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> the problem, it was a way for the illness to conceal
      itself, by steering her away from proper care, and preventing her
      aberrant thoughts from simply being removed. It still seemed
      implausible that she could be having these sorts of rational
      thoughts about it if she <em class="calibre7">were</em> mentally unwell, but, again,
      it's not as if she really knew what it would feel like from the
      inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right," she began, trying to make her voice calm.
      "<em class="calibre7">Is</em> there some way you could verify that I'm not possessed
      by a ghost or something? Just...you know...for my peace of mind?"
      Madam Wainscott frowned, then tucked the potion bottle away in a
      pocket of her apron and moved a few beds down to crouch by a short
      two-level bookshelf, running her finger over the spines. As she did
      so, Hermione opened her bag - its strap still over her shoulder -
      and began pulling out her notes. Not furtively, but
      matter-of-factly, as if it should be of no concern to anyone,
      particularly a nurse. The woman did glance at her, but only briefly
      before continuing to peruse the books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione flipped through the thick sheaf of pages quickly,
      looking for the tell-tale sign of mutually inverted sections of
      handwriting, but didn't see the page. She frowned and went back
      through more slowly, then stopped. She'd found the page, all right,
      but it held <em class="calibre7">only</em> her notes on potential library magic, and
      there was no sign of the mysterious additional lines. <em class="calibre7">Option A
      - that never happened, and I just imagined it, equal evidence of
      mental illness or an oddly specific and aggressive Confundus.
      Option B - something is possessing me, and after putting me to
      sleep, it just used a spell to wipe those lines off the page.</em>
      Hermione scowled and shoved the notes back into her bag, with
      slightly more force than was strictly necessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nurse Wainscott returned, holding a pair of books. She'd clearly
      noticed Hermione putting her papers away, but chose not to remark
      upon it, about which Hermione was both grateful and slightly
      irritated. Instead, the woman set the books down, holding one open
      to a page marked with a thin blue ribbon, and began casting a
      series of spells from them over Hermione, many which included the
      words <em class="calibre7">spiritus</em> or <em class="calibre7">effigia</em>, and once,
      <em class="calibre7">usurpator.</em> As the nurse flipped from page to page,
      switching books halfway through, Hermione tried to memorize each
      spell as best she could, but some of the gestures were not ones she
      recognized at all, and a couple spells had been cast non-verbally.
      Though at least one of the gestures seemed familiar from the
      extended prelude to the spell her older self
      had...would?...might?...cast on her parents. Was that evidence of
      anything, that she'd seen an apparently real spell element she had
      no way of knowing?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Maybe...but maybe a sufficiently strong Confundus can
      actually impart some information that the caster knows and the
      victim doesn't, and it sounds like a strong caster would've been
      required. But why would an upper-year student do such a thing to me
      anyway?</em> Bullying - her books had said - was a complex dance of
      status and dominance, and tended to operate within narrow age
      ranges. A child might well torment significantly younger children
      out of pure sadism, but that was <em class="calibre7">supposedly</em> rare. Much
      more often victims would be children sufficiently younger or weaker
      than the the bully to be vulnerable, but still close enough to
      their age that the bully wouldn't lose status among their own peers
      by attacking <em class="calibre7">too</em> weak an opponent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, after all that, I'm quite positive there's nothing in
      your head that didn't originate from your own mind," said Madam
      Wainscott suddenly, breaking Hermione's gloomy train of thought.
      "Though that does include whatever your mind invented based on the
      Confundus, of course." She put her hand on Hermione's shoulder
      sympathetically. "I hope that does make you feel a little better?"
      Hermione considered the question, and upon reflection, it didn't.
      At all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I appreciate you checking for me," said the Ravenclaw, with
      carefully true wording. "So...what now? May I go...at least until
      you find a countercurse, I suppose?" The nurse shook her head, once
      again withdrawing the potion she'd held before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's clear you're still suffering secondary ill effects from
      such a strong hex, so I'd prefer you got more rest. And it may help
      in another way - I have a potion to allow dreamless sleep. It
      should ensure you get good quality sleep, but it should also make
      your memories of the hex less distinct, and help you put them
      aside?" Hermione was a bit surprised to hear that witches
      apparently knew about memory consolidation during REM sleep, but
      she supposed the proper magic ought to be able to tell you as much
      or more about what was happening in someone's head as an EEG or MRI
      machine. It's not as if <em class="calibre7">science</em> had any reliable ways of
      making people forget things, and magic apparently had
      <em class="calibre7">several</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay," Hermione said, with a slight sigh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll make sure you're excused from classes for the rest of the
      day-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't have any left today," interrupted Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, well, good. But I'll still inform your Professors and the
      Headmaster of the incident, so they can be properly accommodating
      if you have any...er...lingering issues."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's...really not necessary," Hermione objected, warily.
      <em class="calibre7">If she does</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">that</strong></em><em class="calibre7">, then
      effectively everyone I might go to will have a plausible excuse to
      not believe a single thing I say about any of this…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's no trouble, and it's school policy anyway - I
      <em class="calibre7">must</em>. I'm sure they will want to go to some lengths to
      discover who hexed you in any case, it's a bit beyond the normal
      sort of student shenanigans." Hermione nodded. It wasn't as if she
      could stop her. "I'll fetch you a set of pyjamas and let you change
      so you're more comfortable, and then you can take the potion - you
      should sleep clear through to tomorrow morning." Nurse Wainscott
      did as she'd said, altering the apparently generic pyjamas with a
      few quick spells so they properly fit Hermione, then pulling the
      curtains around her bed and withdrawing to let her change.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione made enough of a production out of removing her robes
      to hopefully mask the sound of also fetching a quill, blank
      parchment and her wand from her bag. A general Silencing Charm was
      far beyond her, but she leveled her wand at the quill and parchment
      in turn, adding a whispered <em class="calibre7">Quietus</em> for each, then
      gingerly tested one against the other, and nodded in satisfaction
      as the normally quiet scratch was nearly inaudible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione quickly began to transcribe everything she could
      remember about everything that had happened starting with the
      Library - including as faithful a reproduction as she could of the
      missing notes - alternating hands so she could awkwardly continue
      to undress and change while she did so. When she'd finished - after
      going back and adding a quick note at the top - she took up her
      wand again and whispered <em class="calibre7">Impervius</em> at each page, folded
      them in half, then again firmly crosswise. She hesitated for a
      moment, second guessing herself, but then followed through with her
      hopefully-not-mad plan. She cast one final spell at the bundle,
      then flung the tight square of parchment directly out of the
      partially open window behind the bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Immediately, the "sourceless" irrational panic from the Library
      flooded back into her, and her hands shook as she put everything
      back into her bag and then climbed into the hospital bed. But even
      as her nerves betrayed her, she steadfastly pushed them down and
      essayed a wavering smile, equal parts uncertainty and grim
      determination. The return of the feeling was a tiny piece of
      evidence, and Hermione was <em class="calibre7">choosing</em> to interpret it as
      progress, rather than mental illness. If she wasn't sane, well,
      this shouldn't do any harm. If she <em class="calibre7">was</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nurse Wainscott? I'm ready for the potion now," she said,
      loudly. But before the woman had reached the curtain around
      Hermione's bed, she lowered her voice and in an almost inaudibly
      soft whisper - yet somehow simultaneously full of iron - added two
      more words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your move."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
