<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 14 - Lavatorial Correspondence, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 14: Lavatorial Correspondence</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione did not rush back to Ravenclaw Tower after the
      memorial, though she did not dawdle either - it was nearly curfew.
      A couple of groups of older Ravens were making their way back in
      the same direction, talking quietly. Roger Davies was walking
      alone, looking morose. Hermione would've liked to say something to
      him, distract him a bit, but given the mood she was in, she wasn't
      sure she could keep herself from blurting out what she suspected
      about Madam Pomfrey's death. And despite her newfound determination
      to do something about it, she still wouldn't do anything
      precipitous without <em class="calibre7">trying</em> to get a better understanding
      of the consequences from her older self. So she just measured her
      pace so as to stay behind him, out of his view, and felt quietly
      bad about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she walked, she tried to decide what her criteria were going
      to be for acting or not acting, depending on what she learned. When
      Hermione read fiction, she'd begun to mildly prefer science fiction
      over fantasy after the age of five or so, when her critical
      thinking skills had developed to the point of distraction. But in
      either genre she'd encountered various ideas on the "stubbornness"
      of changing timelines, in fictional worlds where that was even
      possible. The mysterious notes had mentioned the term "backlash",
      which rather implied <em class="calibre7">some</em> consequence. If there was
      somehow some <em class="calibre7">guaranteed</em> moral consequence that outweighed
      apprehending a murderer and getting justice for Madam Pomfrey, like
      someone random dying, or some <em class="calibre7">other</em> murderer going free,
      obviously she wouldn't choose that. If it was a personal
      consequence, like <em class="calibre7">her</em> dying...Hermione liked to think she
      was the sort of person who would give her life to save another, but
      that sort of thing tended to happen in the moment, in emergencies -
      she suspected it would be much harder to do in a premeditated way.
      And she couldn't help wondering about the ultimate outcomes - if
      she could save <em class="calibre7">more</em> people <em class="calibre7">later</em>, by <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      dying...but she wasn't at all sure if that line of thinking was
      morally defensible or just rationalization.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But that was all in the event Older Hermione could convince her
      that there were <em class="calibre7">guaranteed</em> consequences, and Hermione
      wasn't sure how likely that was. Given how Time <em class="calibre7">ought</em> to
      work, with cause and effect still intact even if effects sometimes
      now preceded causes...either changing Time ought to be simply
      <em class="calibre7">impossible</em>, because things happening other than the way in
      which they'd already been observed to happen was just upending the
      definition of the word "happen", or if the universe was a
      many-worlds sort, changing Time ought to be utterly unpredictable,
      with any significant change causing uncountable knock-on changes
      down the line, some of which might be good and some of which might
      be bad. But the existence of magic sort of threw those theories
      into disarray, because now things that weren't organic were allowed
      to somehow have agency of a sort...<em class="calibre7">Accio,</em> and wands, and
      Hogwarts itself. Who was to say that fundamental parts of reality
      couldn't as well? Or - far more to her liking - that there was some
      hidden metaphysical principle that stabilized Time in a universe
      that allowed it to be fiddled with, but which might nevertheless be
      understood if you worked at it? And neither of those theories
      explained the references to "erasing" a person, which implied that
      someone had been removed from Time, but in some way that people
      still <em class="calibre7">remembered</em> them, or how would anyone realize in the
      first place, and that didn't seem to make any logical sense at
      all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By the time she reached the tower, she hadn't come to any
      particular conclusions - there were still too many things she
      didn't understand about the situation. And now she had to pay
      attention to figuring out the mechanics of her "conversation". Most
      of the Ravenclaws were curious by nature, so just sitting in the
      common room or her bedroom and repeatedly taking small doses of a
      potion interspersed by bouts of writing - and possibly visibly
      nodding off for some length of time - seemed bound to attract
      questions. She could try to do it under the covers, but she didn't
      think she could manage to avoid exciting notice that way either.
      It'd have to be the dorm bathroom - there were three stalls and
      three tubs for five girls (Hermione had no experience with boarding
      school, and did not realize how luxurious this was), so even if she
      took a long time in one stall it wouldn't cause serious problems,
      and if anyone asked she could just say she was having stomach
      problems, which was still true. In the end she went ahead with that
      plan, and added a decision to wait until the rest of her dorm-mates
      were settling down to sleep to make disruptions even less
      likely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It hadn't been mentioned in Madam Wainscott's instructions, but
      while she was waiting for everyone to go to sleep, Hermione managed
      to find some references to Liquid Sheep in the Tower Library, and
      there didn't seem to be a minimum effective dose. So she'd just
      take two drops in water at first and see how far that got her,
      extending it if necessary. Possibly also decreasing the amount of
      water gradually, or the fact that she was doing this in a bathroom
      would become convenient for inconvenient reasons. She had realized,
      of course, that if her other self was inclined to, this plan would
      allow her to just take more drops and extend her own control
      indefinitely, but she'd already demonstrated she could put Hermione
      to sleep if she wanted, so it didn't seem like too much of a
      risk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, everyone seemed to be settled. Hermione, in her
      nightgown, slipped as quietly out of bed as she could, fetched all
      her materials - which she'd taken the precaution of placing into a
      toiletries bag in advance - then padded into the bathroom. She
      filled one of the common water pitchers from the sink and took it
      with her into a stall. Perched carefully on a toilet seat, stall
      door firmly closed and latched, she wrote out her opening
      argument.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm presuming from what I've already seen that you can see
      and hear everything I do. If that's not the case, please correct
      me, and I'll be more verbose, but for the moment, I'm going to
      continue. I am</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>strongly opposed</span></em> <em class="calibre7">to
      letting the matter of M.P. go unaddressed, and in a lesser sense,
      all the various other similar things that haven't happened yet -
      which come to think of it I'm not sure you know I know about, since
      I didn't "see" them per se - what happen(ed/s) to one of the W.T, T
      the colorful Hufflepuff, and the scruffy man, D the house elf,
      "M.E", P.D., and the student with H when he talked about V, plus
      what you did to our parents. I understand there are dangers
      involved in Time, but it's not illegal for you to talk about it
      with me anymore since I already know, or at least not more illegal
      than you not turning me in, in any case - and yourself, since I
      learned about it from you. So I need you to explain to me your</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>reasons</span></em> <em class="calibre7">for thinking it better to not do
      anything - and please, do so assuming I'm capable of understanding,
      which I ought not to need to mention since you're me, but I
      honestly am not as sure of your judgement as I might've expected to
      be under the circumstances.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione reviewed what she'd written, poured a half glass of
      water, then carefully measured two drops of Liquid Sheep into it
      and stirred thoroughly. She put everything but the quill and paper
      down, and held the latter firmly under her hands on her lap,
      leaning back carefully so hopefully she wouldn't slide or fall as
      she fell asleep - she wasn't sure if her other self would be able
      to take over quickly enough. Hermione took a deep breath, let it
      out, then downed the glass in a couple of gulps. She set the glass
      on the floor and reached into her bag to extract her watch - a
      lovely silver spring-wound one her parents had purchased for her
      when Hermione's early reading had revealed that digital watches
      wouldn't work properly at Hogwarts - to check the time, then put it
      back down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took a bit longer than she'd expected - maybe because she was
      using a smaller dose - but soon Hermione felt her eyelids growing
      impossibly heavy, her thoughts warm and foggy, and then for a time
      she thought nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When her eyes opened again, she didn't feel particularly groggy,
      and there was extra writing on the paper. But first things first.
      She checked her watch - ten minutes, minus maybe three for falling
      asleep, which was good...even if she had to spend all night she
      should get at least 50 exchanges, minus a bit for any time she took
      reading, thinking and writing her own responses. Only after that
      was taken care of did she read the response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">First, I have to apologize for all of this, sincerely. It
      isn't precisely my fault - though I ought to have been able to
      prevent it - but it's</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>definitely</span></em> <em class="calibre7">not
      your fault. I can understand the mildly antagonistic attitude
      you've had towards me, and under the circumstances I can't blame
      you. You seem a lot more persistent and capable than I remember
      myself being at your age, but then I had less serious problems to
      deal with, at least at first. In any case, please believe me when I
      say that I only want to do what's best for everyone - you included
      - given what's already happened. I'm going to explain everything I
      think I can as part of that...there's not a lot of time for
      anything else at this point.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Second, the odious T.N. is entirely correct, more than he
      knows. No matter what happens in this conversation, no matter what
      you decide, I</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>implore</span></em> <em class="calibre7">you</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>not</span></em> <em class="calibre7">to give any further hint to</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>anyone</span></em> <em class="calibre7">that you know</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>anything</span></em> <em class="calibre7">relating to V other than what an
      intelligent first-year might read on her own (and obviously,
      destroy these notes after we're done, but I hope that had been your
      plan already). Even to any Professors. There is an Art called
      Legilimency, known - among others - to some former and current
      D.E., which allows a very skilled witch to read someone else's
      thoughts. You should also try not to bring such things to mind when
      you're around other people, particularly not while making eye
      contact. And yes, I know that will be harder now that I've
      mentioned it, but there are techniques - look up Occlumency. It's
      going to take a very long time to learn without a good instructor
      or someone to practice against - and Hogwarts isn't likely to make
      one available to you for years without you explaining why you need
      it - so I suggest getting started now. But Occlumency skills are
      not common even amongst adults, so anything you reveal could thus
      be traced back to you, even if an otherwise responsible person
      fully intended to keep your secrets carefully.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Third, you do not - or at least I did not - turn 'evil' at
      some point in the future. What I did for our parents was to</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>protect</span></em> <em class="calibre7">them, it was almost certainly
      necessary, and</em> <em class="calibre7">everything was fixed later</em><em class="calibre7">. Please
      take that into account when evaluating my moral compass. I am not
      sure what's going on with O. - I don't approve of what he did to
      you, but I've known him to be a moral person, and it seems all
      wandmakers are a bit peculiar, so I'm inclined to give him the
      benefit of the doubt for now. Try not to hold it against Memory
      Charms in general - yes, they can be used in abusive ways, but
      likewise the opposite - like almost any magic, they are a tool, and
      any moral weight comes entirely from the user.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">So, on to actual arguments. Meddling with Time is dangerous
      in two ways. First, the H.R.C. (on which the T.T. is based) works
      in a very specific way, which is actually in some sense consistent
      with the muggle laws of physics. You haven't read it yet, but owl
      your parents to get you a copy of an issue of Physical Review D
      from last year - 42 (6) - the paper you're looking for is "Cauchy
      problem in spacetimes with closed timelike curves" - I looked it up
      myself, years later, for various reasons. The gist is, for areas of
      space-time where the future and the past are allowed to interact,
      no physical solution is</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>possible</span></em>
      <em class="calibre7">which is not self-consistent (i.e. you can't "cause" anything
      retroactively that wasn't going to have happened already, there are
      no "changes"). A naive person might think that makes it safe, but
      it really, really doesn't. The end result of a situation like that
      is that if you</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>try</span></em> <em class="calibre7">to change
      something, you are</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>going to fail</span></em><em class="calibre7">,
      you just can't necessarily predict how or why. The normal laws of
      probability don't apply, because any ostensibly possible outcome
      where you make a change</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>isn't</span></em>
      <em class="calibre7">possible anymore, and thus all the otherwise unlikely things
      that are left get "promoted" to inconveniently likely indeed. Think
      about it, I'm sure you can imagine some examples.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Even then, in practice these events tend to be</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>more</span></em> <em class="calibre7">unpleasant - even fatal - than you'd
      expect from appropriately adjusted random chance, which is why
      they're called "backlash". The stock explanation you get in the
      Ministry T.T. pamphlet is that Time doesn't like meddling, and
      "punishes" people for trying it. Myself, I think it might just be a
      sum over lifetime probabilities...if you're the kind of person to
      try it in the first place, one very unlikely event that nips things
      in the bud right off - by killing you or scaring you sufficiently -
      is actually more likely overall than a combined series of slightly
      implausible events that are forced to keep you from succeeding over
      and over again. But regardless of the explanation, backlashes are
      verifiable, and well-documented.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Now, as you've no doubt just objected while reading the
      first part, none of that may necessarily apply here, because
      changes</em> <em class="calibre7">have already happened</em><em class="calibre7">, plus you've read
      the anecdotes about Erasure. This is where I get onto less solid
      ground, but that'll have to be in the next response, because you're
      starting to wake up, and I'm honestly not sure what would happen if
      I took more Liquid Sheep while I'm the one steering - better to
      stick with your protocol.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was her own handwriting again, and it <em class="calibre7">sounded</em> like
      her. She hadn't been certain about her theories, but this did seem
      like confirmation. Unless it was someone else successfully
      <em class="calibre7">pretending</em> to be her, which given the whole
      <em class="calibre7">mind-reading</em> thing she'd just been informed about was
      actually <em class="calibre7">more</em> likely than she'd have thought previously.
      But if that were the case, then whoever it was ought not to have
      told her about it, since it made her more likely to question it.
      Unless that was just to establish trust and help sell the ruse…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione frowned and abandoned the train of thought. She decided
      to set aside theories of deception unless something specifically
      made them seem more likely, since it was clear she couldn't logic
      her way to a conclusion without some actual evidence - and she'd
      read The Princess Bride.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bit about the Hour Reversal Charm seemed to make sense,
      though Hermione wasn't sure what happened to free will in a
      universe like that. While she certainly could imagine an infinite
      number of ways for attempts to change the past to fail
      "coincidentally", there were certain self-referential situations
      that didn't seem to fit...like seeing a future version of
      <em class="calibre7">yourself</em> doing something, and then deciding quite
      specifically <em class="calibre7">not</em> to...what would then <em class="calibre7">make</em> you do
      it? Maybe you simply couldn't make that decision, because any
      situation in which you would have actually decided to wouldn't have
      been allowed to happen in the "first place" - you just wouldn't
      have cast the spell for some reason in the future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the last bit was <em class="calibre7">also</em> correct, in that Hermione had
      immediately noticed the HRC part was instructive but not relevant,
      since - at least from Older Hermione's perspective - changes
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> happened. She bit her lip a bit in concentration as
      she added another note of her own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm trying to give you the benefit of the doubt. I suppose
      if you hadn't been through what I had, Memory Charming our parents
      wouldn't seem so bad if you had some good reason. But don't think I
      haven't noticed you haven't actually given me any demonstrably
      relevant reasons yet. Oh, and what good is not telling people about
      V or guarding my thoughts when Mr. Odious (thank you for that, I
      shall think of him as nothing else from now on) already knows and
      indeed has a written copy of some of them?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione added three drops to slightly less than a half-glass of
      water this time, and waited. Sleep came more quickly this time, but
      slowly enough that she had time to marvel - a bit wearily - at how
      bizarre her life had become, even compared to a week ago, let alone
      three months.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After waking again and checking her watch, Hermione saw about
      twelve minutes had passed that time, and more writing had appeared.
      She swiftly read the new lines.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Thank you, I'll take what I can get.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm not sure how smart Mr. Odious is, and thus how likely it
      is that he's taken what we'd consider logical precautions against
      theft and/or Memory Charms, but it's probably not worth the risk.
      Considering his family, and his House, I'm afraid to say that what
      P suggested might actually be safest - find some counter-leverage
      on him and make it in his own interests to keep quiet about it. He
      might even admire you for it, if it's done well, not that I think
      you ought to be making friends with him, or any Slytherins for that
      matter.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Continuing on with the previous discussion - the H.R.C. (and
      T.T.) is not the only means of interacting with Time, it's just the
      only one even</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>hypothetically</span></em>
      <em class="calibre7">predictable enough to be considered sane to use. What happened
      to me - and in turn you - is one of the other ones. And I admit I
      don't understand it at all - it involved some non-human magic, plus
      I think</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>another</span></em> <em class="calibre7">thing the Department
      of Mysteries studies beyond Time. I am not an Unspeakable - I
      thought there were better uses for my time than research which by
      definition almost no one ever learns about or benefits from,
      although I admit I'm questioning that decision now even more than I
      used to. Though if I had gone down that road, I wouldn't have found
      myself in this situation anyway. I also don't understand how
      Erasure works. It doesn't seem to make logical sense, but a lot of
      magic doesn't, I'm afraid. It's admittedly possible the reports of
      Erasure were entirely fabricated by the Ministry in another effort
      to discourage the use of Time magic - it wouldn't be the most
      questionable thing they've ever done by far. But I will note that
      there have been a discouragingly large number of Dark wizards and
      witches throughout history, many of them quite obviously psychotic,
      and not a single one has been recorded to have meddled with Time,
      not even to prevent their enemies from being born or similarly
      obvious things. If someone like</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>that</span></em>
      <em class="calibre7">thinks something is too dangerous to use, that really ought to
      say something, don't you think? In the end, the safest assumption
      seems to be, if you attempt to use Time in anything but the
      simplest and most predictable ways, it</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>will not go
      well</span></em><em class="calibre7">. I obviously can't prove it...but ask
      yourself, does the magical world</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>look</span></em>
      <em class="calibre7">like it ought to if people were able to change Time
      safely?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't particularly approve of the remark about not
      making friends with Slytherins, though it <em class="calibre7">was</em> hard to
      argue in Mr. Odious' case. And she was surprised how much ignorance
      her older self was admitting with respect to non-standard Time
      magic. But even if it made her trust her honesty a bit more, it did
      not seem like a strong argument. There were too many unknowns.
      Besides which, even if you accepted something like the "perversity
      of Time", the details of how it even worked were unclear ...for
      example, <em class="calibre7">Hermione</em> wasn't from the future, wasn't trying to
      change her <em class="calibre7">own</em> past, it was all still ahead of her -
      couldn't that just as well mean anything she decided wouldn't apply
      in the same way? Or was everything "infected" by the initial
      disruption, whatever it had been, each event in turn, ad
      infinitum?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She jotted down her response.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That still doesn't seem good enough, there's too much
      uncertainty. And the fact that Time doesn't appear to be getting
      changed is almost entirely meaningless...if Time were changed
      properly, safely, you wouldn't</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>expect</span></em>
      <em class="calibre7">to see anything at all. Yes, I suppose I might hope the world
      would look better than it does, but we don't know how it might've
      looked otherwise, maybe this is much better...plus, suppose Time is
      being used by multiple people with</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>different</span></em> <em class="calibre7">opinions on what's ideal,
      couldn't you end up with some sort of consistent vectored
      average?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Would you please explain exactly how this whole thing
      happened to you, to the best of your knowledge? And in your notes,
      you mentioned someone else possibly having "come back too", T.D. -
      is this my partner from Defence? Won't she change too much even if
      I don't?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took another dose and impatiently waited for sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I see what you mean...the observable evidence could have a
      selection bias, because Time may affect what's actually observable?
      But I still think the risk is too great, since the scope of harm is
      effectively infinite.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And I'm sorry, but I'm not going to give you the
      details...given your arguments, I can't conscience the risk of you
      trying to replicate them. All I will say is that there was an
      accident involving an unfamiliar magical substance. Someone else
      was present at the very end who I</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>think</span></em>
      <em class="calibre7">was that T.D., but I'm not certain, it all happened very
      quickly and I hadn't seen her for a few years - and regardless, I
      don't</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>know</span></em> <em class="calibre7">that she was actually
      included, that was just speculation. And knowing myself, I'm sure
      that you could probably research it even without any other details,
      but I urge you not to. It was powerful, barely controlled magic,
      triggered in almost certainly the wrong way, and the odds of it
      going the same way twice are beyond astronomical. It's entirely
      possible it killed me, and I suspect it may have somehow done</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>even worse</span></em> <em class="calibre7">damage on top of that - but I
      won't explain that either, so please don't bother asking.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">In my opinion, Miss Davis shouldn't be relevant to your
      decision - even if a similar thing did happen to her, I've taken
      certain steps to minimize changes as a result. Steps which weren't
      options in your situation. Again, I apologize, I know this is going
      to frustrate you and not help our relationship, but it's not up for
      debate.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at the writing, frustrated almost to the point
      of saying a rude word. She'd <em class="calibre7">sworn</em> to herself that when
      she was older, she would never, <em class="calibre7">ever</em> treat someone like
      some adults - her parents included, on occasion - had treated
      her...as if her thoughts, her opinions, were of no conceivable
      value, because she was a <em class="calibre7">child</em>. And now here she was,
      doing it to <em class="calibre7">herself</em>. True, it wasn't <em class="calibre7">quite</em> the
      same...if anyone had the slightest chance of holding that position
      and it actually being <em class="calibre7">accurate</em>, it'd have be a future
      version of herself...but even so, it didn't feel good at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her quill stabbed at the paper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Wow. Nice to know I grow up to be a hypocrite. I hope
      whatever you convinced yourself was okay to do to Tracey wasn't
      unduly influenced by your opinions of Slytherins in
      general.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">In any case, you</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>still</span></em>
      <em class="calibre7">haven't convinced me. Of course, since I'm only a child, it
      wouldn't be surprising if I got all petulant and just stopped
      listening to you entirely, but I'll go ahead and try to set an
      example of reasonable behavior for you and let you keep trying
      anyway.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stirred more drops into another glass of water with
      such vehemence that she almost spilled it, and with her bristling
      thoughts, it took a good five minutes for her eyes to droop
      closed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione rubbed her eyes as she awoke - they felt puffy and
      bleary. She also actually felt a little sleepy still this time, and
      looked at her watch curiously. Over half an hour? It didn't look
      like <em class="calibre7">that</em> much extra writing had appeared on the paper.
      Maybe she'd just been giving it extra thought? At any rate, the nap
      seemed to have helped Hermione's irritation, and now she was just
      deeply weary, rather than angry. She was sure she could work
      herself back up if she wanted to, but she recognized that wasn't a
      helpful impulse, and she suppressed it, instead returning to
      reading the new notes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Very well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Given that what I've already said isn't enough, I do have a
      more consequentialist argument - specific to Madam Pomfrey, but
      indirectly applicable to everything else I'm sorry you're now
      burdened with. The situation with V is deadly serious. We managed
      to come through it with honestly a lot less loss than we had any
      right to expect. Certainly, we owe our success to skill, hard work,
      and sacrifice. But also a great deal of</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>luck</span></em><em class="calibre7">. The more things change from how I
      remember them, the more likely it seems some of that luck won't go
      our way. The person I strongly suspect is responsible for Madam
      Pomfrey is, and will be, responsible for other things - some very
      bad, but others which influenced other critical people in critical
      ways. Leaving him to continue much as he might have, with Madam
      Pomfrey on top of everything else...yes, it's horrible, there's no
      other word for it...but it's still the best I can think of, and in
      that case, he</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>should</span></em> <em class="calibre7">receive his
      just desserts in the end.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I can imagine your counter to that, because I've considered
      it myself - all of the advance knowledge I have, in the hands of
      the right people now, ought to be able to make up for that
      uncertainty. Who needs luck when you can cheat? And if this were
      just a Prophecy, I might say yes...though there are dangers in
      relying on prophecy too - you really can end up causing what you're
      trying to prevent - but most prophecy seems to have some
      uncertainty "designed" in, and ignoring them would be
      foolish.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But this is where everything else comes back in. Relying on
      unknown Time magic, and the very strong possibility that because of
      it events will go in the opposite direction we want, even
      perversely so?</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>We'd</span></em> <em class="calibre7">be responsible
      for</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>all</span></em> <em class="calibre7">the consequences, and things
      could have gone much, much worse than I remember them - suffering
      for all of Britain, maybe the entire world, muggles included. Do
      you really think you can live with that on your conscience? I don't
      think I could, and I've had to do worse things than Memory
      Charms.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Even given your feelings on this sort of thing, if I could
      just safely wipe all of this from your mind and hope for the best,
      leave you as I "found" you, I probably would. But I can't. Besides,
      it's only barely more morally defensible than me just taking
      control completely, which I'm</em> <em class="calibre7"><span>also</span></em>
      <em class="calibre7">not going to do, no matter what you decide. In the end, this is
      your life, not mine. I'm just trying to give you the best advice I
      can and hoping you make the correct decision...which may not be the
      logical thing for me to do, but feels like the</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><span>right</span></em> <em class="calibre7">one.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I truly wish I could help more, but that's all I can tell
      you, really, and I sincerely hope it helps more than it feels like
      it has. Either way, I wish you the best of luck, and as happy a
      life as you can find.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The new section ended with her full name, signed with an elegant
      flourish. Hermione leaned back and set her head against the cool
      stone of the bathroom wall, closing her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is really, really unfair,</em> she thought, more
      plaintively than angrily. There should be a decision which was both
      <em class="calibre7">right</em> and <em class="calibre7">best</em>, but instead she seemed to have
      only two choices, equally uncertain and full of risk, not just
      because she wasn't <em class="calibre7">allowed</em> to have all the information
      that seemed necessary, but because some of the information simply
      didn't <em class="calibre7">exist</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could do what felt right to <em class="calibre7">her</em>, to help people now
      - in every way she knew about - and risk unconfirmed but
      legitimately terrifying temporal consequences. Or do
      <em class="calibre7">nothing</em> as, somehow, the <em class="calibre7">Gryffindor</em> version of
      her was advocating. And try to live with the secret, the regret, as
      bad things inevitably happened and she wondered if she
      <em class="calibre7">might</em> have prevented them. All in the <em class="calibre7">hopes</em> that
      Time would somehow of its own accord get back on track so,
      <em class="calibre7">best-case</em>, things "worked out" and only a <em class="calibre7">few</em>
      good people ended up dead, but which given the changes already,
      honestly didn't seem at all guaranteed either.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's heart sank as she suddenly realized <em class="calibre7">why</em> the
      decision was being left to her. What her other self had said about
      there not being a lot of time, not taking control completely, what
      the notes had said about her <em class="calibre7">slipping</em>. She was going to go
      away, to let herself "die", for lack of a better word. Which on the
      face of it appeared extremely ethical, brave...even noble, and was
      probably intended that way. It was what Hermione had thought about
      earlier, sacrificing herself to save someone else, but in a
      deliberate, premeditated way. It made her feel humbled, and guilty,
      since she still wasn't sure <em class="calibre7">she</em> could do the same thing,
      even if they were technically the same person. But in which case
      her older self wouldn't have to live with any of the long-term
      consequences either way, because she'd be gone, which meant
      ethically, it genuinely ought to be Hermione's decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the other reason, that she'd grasped in the same moment, was
      the chilling suspicion that her older self, despite
      who-knew-how-much more education and experience, despite her
      seeming confidence in her opinions, <em class="calibre7">knew</em> there was no good
      decision in practical terms...if she had, despite the ethical
      issues, wouldn't it have been <em class="calibre7">worth</em> taking over
      permanently? Even if it effectively "killed" her younger self, to
      make <em class="calibre7">certain</em> things went as they should, if the stakes
      were as high as she believed? So, lacking enough justification for
      taking the responsibility herself, her older self was abdicating
      the whole thing to <em class="calibre7">her</em>, and in that light, the act didn't
      seem very noble at <em class="calibre7">all</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The not-quite-twelve-year-old girl found her cheeks were wet
      again, but unlike at the memorial, this time she was almost certain
      she was crying for both of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: I know, so gloomy! I promise this is just the darkness
      before accepting hero's call, and from here on out will be climbing
      upward, tooth and nail, slide rule and wand. ;)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Edit: Thanks to /u/rational_username for catching a doubled
      word!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And /u/nikic for the "Letters" that snuck in to Physical Review
      D, despite my explicit check. I blame Gregory Benford. ;)</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
