<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 15 - Responsible, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 15: Responsible</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: Sorry about the delay, life got busy again. But I'm still
      plugging away, as determinedly (if not perhaps as diligently) as
      our heroine. :D</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm just <em class="calibre7">saying</em>, our first Astronomy class tonight is
      going tae be harder than it needed tae be, because <em class="calibre7">someone</em>
      was banging around the bathroom at all hours last night, sniffling
      like a house elf with a head cold!" Morag's unnecessarily loud
      complaint cut through the fog of sleep, and Hermione sat up in bed,
      rubbing her eyes blearily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The morning sun was streaming through the room's open curtains,
      and her dorm-mates were moving about, mostly dressed already -
      though in casual outfits, since Friday was entirely free except for
      the recently mentioned Astronomy class at midnight. Morag, seeing
      she'd finally managed to wake Hermione, smiled tightly, and
      Hermione sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I tried to be quiet, I'm sorry I disturbed you, Morag," she
      mumbled. The disagreeable girl sniffed sharply, but didn't
      otherwise acknowledge the remark.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, Hermione," Padma said quietly, stopping by
      Hermione's bed. "Are you okay?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione considered the question. Last night had been equal
      parts depressing and frustrating. And while her older self's
      arguments had been presented lucidly enough, in the light of the
      morning, they <em class="calibre7">still</em> didn't really seem to make sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wondered if there might have been side-effects from whatever
      happened to send her older self's mind backwards through Time. Or
      possibly her own brain wasn't developed enough to 'emulate' O.H.'s
      full thought processes, so they were handicapped somehow? Or even
      while Hermione herself was sleeping, there still just wasn't quite
      enough 'spare' capacity? She'd have to ask Professor McGonagall
      exactly how one maintained consciousness after being Transfigured
      to a non-human form, or how ghosts managed to think at all. And
      then there was that bit her older self had included about possibly
      something <em class="calibre7">worse</em> than being killed having happened to her,
      whatever <em class="calibre7">that</em> meant. All of which only firmed Hermione's
      instincts to favor her <em class="calibre7">own</em> judgement in this case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But then what? Given the school's sealing, she suspected at a
      minimum the Headmaster had evidence of - or at least suspected -
      foul play. But if he did, he was no doubt already looking for the
      killer, and Hermione's information was so vague that it might not
      actually be helpful...the most valuable piece seemed to be just
      knowing it was murder in the first place. Even if she came clean,
      since there was no way to prove her story, the Professors might
      just chalk it up to that infuriating Confundus misinformation. And
      if they <em class="calibre7">did</em>, there would be more unnecessary visits to
      Madam Wainscott, or they might even confine her "for her own good"
      since she wasn't ignoring her "delusions" as instructed, and then
      she wouldn't be able to help at all. From her reading, she knew the
      standards for involuntary commitment to St. Mungo's were higher
      than the equivalent in the muggle world - wizards in general seemed
      to have a much higher tolerance for what they deemed 'eccentricity'
      - but it did happen, and that seemed not yet worth the risk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could owl an anonymous letter to someone in the DMLE, but
      even if it were believed, she presumed it could cause a
      <em class="calibre7">lot</em> of problems for Hogwarts - and she still wasn't sure
      if the Headmaster and whoever else was involved in the cover-up had
      good reasons for their actions. Hermione decided to hold that
      option in reserve...besides, it would also be far more likely to
      succeed with some verifiable evidence. There was always that
      journalist, Ms. Skeeter, who seemed all too likely to accept
      Hermione's suspicions at face value even without evidence, but that
      too could cause problems...suppose there was a public outcry, the
      school was opened to outside investigators, and <em class="calibre7">that</em> was
      the thing that allowed the culprit to get away?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then there was the issue of her older self's apparent intentions
      towards self-sacrifice. Objectively, if anyone would, <em class="calibre7">she</em>
      ought to know whether or not there was any other way. On the other
      hand, she'd admitted she didn't really understand what had
      happened, and if her logic <em class="calibre7">was</em> compromised for whatever
      reason, then could she really be considered responsible enough to
      make a decision like that, however much Hermione might ordinarily
      support someone's "right to die" from an ethical standpoint? Which
      meant on top of everything else, she felt obligated to try to find
      a way to rescue her, or at least help her make an unencumbered
      decision about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione?" asked Padma, looking concerned, and Hermione
      realized she'd just been sitting there staring and hadn't answered
      the girl's question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry. I'm just...tired..." she said softly. Despite her quiet
      tone, Morag's eyes glittered from across the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aren't we all," she snipped, moving to the stairs. "Well, I'm
      going to breakfast, <em class="calibre7">coming</em>?" Mandy and Su, looking
      uncomfortable, moved to join her. "Padma?" prompted Morag when the
      other girl hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can wait," she offered to Hermione. Hermione shook her
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, go ahead. I'm...not really hungry anyway..." Padma looked
      as if she wanted to say something, but just nodded, and followed
      Morag and the rest of the girls downstairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a minute, Hermione just sat there and considered going back
      to sleep, but as daunting as her problems were, avoiding them
      wasn't the answer. She slid out of bed, then fumbled open the jar
      of chocolate-covered espresso beans, popping a couple into her
      mouth and chewing mechanically as she headed to the bathroom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she'd expected, by the time she'd cleaned up, brushed her
      teeth and put on some casual clothing, there was no chance she'd
      get to the Great Hall before breakfast was over. Instead, she just
      headed directly to the library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Checking the school rolls had been a bust - there was no male
      student with the initials P.P. enrolled this year. Which implied
      that the murderer had been masquerading as a different student, or
      hiding in some other way. But after another hour of frustrating
      research - trying to find books with useful information in the
      perversely inefficient library - it turned out there were a
      <em class="calibre7">lot</em> of ways to conceal or disguise one's self with magic,
      most of which weren't visibly obvious even if you knew what you
      were looking for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Disillusionment or an invisibility cloak did often leave subtle
      visible disturbances. Reviewing her memory of the train ride, she
      didn't <em class="calibre7">think</em> she'd seen any, but then it's hard to say if
      she would've noticed, particularly if she'd been moving herself at
      the time. It appeared that a Confundus Charm could convince you a
      person was someone else, though that seemed impractical, since
      you'd have to repeat it every time a new person saw you, and then
      what, Memory Charm everyone else who saw you casting the
      Confundus?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whereas Polyjuice Potion, Self-Transfiguration and Metamorphosis
      were entirely dependent on individual skill - even a Metamorphmagus
      could be considered "skilled", since it was an inborn talent but
      required practice to develop - and could be effectively perfect,
      unless you knew the person being impersonated well and could spot
      inconsistent <em class="calibre7">behaviour</em>. But Hermione hadn't known
      <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> well, and the killer didn't even have to be
      masquerading as a specific student, they might've just looked like
      a student in general. On reading the description of a
      Metamorphmagus' abilities, it seemed clear that's what Tonks'
      "trick" was. She might've been the killer playing a double-game,
      pretending to be someone pretending to be someone else...but
      Hermione wasn't sure what the point of that would've been above
      simply pretending to be someone innocuous, which made her think
      Tonks was probably just what she'd seemed - a helpful but bizarre
      recent Hogwarts graduate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then there was the other magical disguise, an Animagus
      transformation. That seemed almost not worth considering, since the
      process was apparently so difficult and dangerous that it was
      extremely rare. The Ministry actually required people who'd managed
      it to register, and there had been only seven in the past century -
      including Professor McGonagall, which certainly spoke to her
      dedication to leaving no aspect of Transfiguration unexplored.
      Though, the <em class="calibre7">reason</em> the Ministry required registration was
      the somewhat odd presumption that people would otherwise be tempted
      to use an Animagus form for criminal activity - as if magic in
      general wasn't otherwise overburdened with opportunities for
      wrongdoing?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That bothered her, so Hermione dug deeper, and discovered that
      an Animagus form was <em class="calibre7">not</em> detectable by any broad
      spell...the only way you could be sure was if you attempted to
      reverse the transformation, and that was itself a difficult spell,
      or compared the results of an inconveniently long series of Charms
      <em class="calibre7">while</em> the person was transformed. And since there were
      Charms that could otherwise duplicate most of the benefits you'd
      get from being one animal or another, it meant that you needed a
      <em class="calibre7">really good reason</em> to specifically attempt the Animagus
      process instead. It also meant that until someone was actually
      caught in the act you'd never know, so there could indeed be a much
      larger number of Animagi running around out there than the registry
      implied. Though again, probably not many, given how difficult it
      was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of this really helped her much. On the train, taking into
      account her efforts to help Neville, she'd encountered dozens of
      students and their pets, any one of which might've been the
      disguised killer. And while Trevor's repeated escape attempts
      <em class="calibre7">were</em> a little suspicious now that she thought about it,
      there was nothing that linked the toad to Madam Pomfrey, unless
      he'd taken ill and Hermione just hadn't-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Taken ill. <em class="calibre7">Diseased</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione clutched at the library table as the blood dropped out
      of her head so fast, her vision swam and she swayed dangerously.
      Nurse Wainscott had said that the Headmaster and all the Professors
      agreed there weren't any <em class="calibre7">people</em> in the hospital wing when
      the nurse had left Madam Pomfrey alone, nor had anyone
      <em class="calibre7">entered</em> before the nurse returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But there had been a <em class="calibre7">rat</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Because he'd bitten Malfoy's friend - <em class="calibre7">and been yellow at the
      time</em> - Scabbers had been taken to the hospital wing to be
      checked to make sure the bite might not have passed anything along.
      Hermione had even thought at first that he'd been killed by the
      same vapor that claimed Madam Pomfrey, and been so relieved when
      she'd learned he wasn't that she hadn't questioned it. But why
      <em class="calibre7">would</em> Madam Pomfrey return the rat herself rather than
      have Ron come fetch him? And she would've presumably done any
      number of diagnostic Charms...maybe even the ones that would have
      revealed an Animagus. And if he, in desperation, took his human
      form to silence the witness to his disguise, would that count as
      "entering"?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But...that doesn't make any sense…</em> Hermione
      rationalized, a bit desperately. <em class="calibre7">Ron said he'd been passed down
      from his brother. Sneaking into Hogwarts once is one thing, but why
      would someone live as a rat for</em>
      <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">years</strong></em><em class="calibre7">?</em> But hadn't one of the
      Twins also said that their father had arranged an exception for
      Scabbers 'ages ago'? She was almost certain she'd read that the
      lifespan of a natural rat was almost never longer than three
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her fingers whitened on the edge of the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had, years ago, accidentally left a shop with a book
      without paying for it - she'd been with her parents and had used
      her bookbag as a shopping basket, but when the time had come to
      make their purchases, she'd missed pulling one out to be rung up.
      When she eventually discovered the mistake at home, she'd been
      wracked with panic and guilt, and had considered all sorts of
      insane plans to cover up the "crime", including walking five miles
      back to the shop in the middle of the night to sneak it back in
      (somehow), or burying the book in the backyard (even then,
      destroying it had never occurred to her). Eventually, after a
      sleepless night, responsibility had won out and in the morning at
      breakfast she'd tearfully confessed to her parents. She was a bit
      taken aback that they only wanted to pay for the book - they seemed
      to think she had punished herself sufficiently via her own guilt.
      But even if she hadn't done it deliberately, it was
      <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had <em class="calibre7">intellectually</em> understood that some change
      to Time had resulted in Madam Pomfrey's death, and the source of
      that knowledge implied that it was probably something she'd been
      involved in somehow. But it was just an abstract part of the insane
      situation she'd found herself in, and she hadn't really dwelled
      upon it. But, now, upon realizing that - despite her immediate
      attempts to cast doubt on the conclusion - she had a plausible
      explanation of how her direct actions had <em class="calibre7">gotten a person
      killed</em>...the impact was devastating, and Hermione's mind
      nearly came apart at the seams.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Moving slowly and haltingly, Hermione swept her things into her
      bag and stumbled away from the table, out of the library. She might
      have vomited, but fortunately there wasn't anything left in her
      stomach to seek escape. She was barely thinking, let alone
      navigating, and it was only upon seeing the impressive ugliness of
      the gargoyle that she broke through the fog and realized where her
      legs had been taking her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster's office," she murmured, recognizing the guarded
      entrance from Engineering Enigmas. It was, all things considered,
      <em class="calibre7">long</em> past time to talk to a responsible adult, and let
      someone else tell her what the right thing to do was. But the
      problems were the same - would he believe her, enough to
      investigate? Without taking the Time business into account, her
      suspicions were extremely circumstantial...and if she <em class="calibre7">did</em>
      bring that up, either he wouldn't believe that either, or he
      <em class="calibre7">would</em>, and then there'd be no going back, no hedging,
      she'd have to reveal everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite the sympathy she'd felt last night, Hermione
      <em class="calibre7">hated</em> her older self a little bit for putting her in this
      position. Though she did notice that there was no attempt to stop
      her, no sense of sourceless panic - she really was on her own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I need to speak to the Headmaster," she said, her voice
      shaking, to the revolting gargoyle. The book had noted the entrance
      to the Headmaster's Office was protected by a passphrase, but
      Hermione had no way to know what it might be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She tried again, this time with a hand against the stone statue,
      then her wand, but again nothing. Feeling frustrated, and a bit
      silly, she knocked on the stone, and received only mildly abraded
      knuckles for her efforts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, there must be <em class="calibre7">some</em> way for him to receive
      unscheduled visitors…" she mused, rubbing her sore knuckles
      absently. Her voice was more steady this time, as her irritation
      beginning to mask her nervousness and guilt. Then again, he
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> very busy, perhaps he was out. Or appointments had to
      be scheduled with the Deputy Headmistress?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite herself, the obstacle was giving Hermione an opening to
      second-guess her decisions. She could always come back later...and
      every second she delayed was another second the murderer might find
      some escape, or commit some other awful crime. Even if she went to
      another Professor, that still applied, and who knew how long it
      would take to convince them?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More and more, it felt like the genuinely responsible thing to
      do would be to get Scabbers securely captive <em class="calibre7">first</em>...then
      there'd be less chance of anything happening due to a delay, plus
      he'd be right there when she revealed her suspicions, and thus a
      lot harder for a Professor to refuse to check...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione slowly walked away, leaving the motionless gargoyle
      behind, and began to seriously consider how a first-year witch
      might subdue a murderous adult Animagus, even if he was a rat the
      vast majority of the time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The notion that it might not be possible did occur to her, but
      she dismissed it - she'd just have to be <em class="calibre7">creative</em>.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
