<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 17 - Gang Aft A-gley, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 17: Gang Aft A-gley</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"All right," said Hermione, pausing outside a disused classroom.
      "Before we get go to the hospital wing, I think we should test my
      theory. If you'll give me Scabbers, I will turn around, then one of
      you - don't tell me who, and don't say anything - go in the
      classroom and pick two corners of the room randomly, walk to each,
      then come back. When you're done, I'll go in with Scabbers and test
      the spell - if he can tell which corners you went to, and lead me
      back to the right one of you, then we're in good shape." The
      Gryffindor boys stared at her in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But...why don't we just test it in the actual <em class="calibre7">place</em>,
      save some time and trouble?" asked Ron. Hermione shook her
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it turns out not to be practical, there's no point in even
      trying it and risking getting in trouble with Madam Wainscott or
      anyone else. Also, this way we can <em class="calibre7">check</em> the answer,
      because you two will know it, whereas in the hospital wing, we
      couldn't be sure it wasn't just a guess or something?" <em class="calibre7">Also, I
      needed to prep the room first, and that would've required an
      additional pretense to get Madam Wainscott out,</em> Hermione
      added, silently. The boys looked at each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Makes sense to me," said Harry. Ron shrugged, and handed over
      the rat - Hermione steeled herself carefully to avoid showing her
      revulsion, though again wondered if it might've been <em class="calibre7">more</em>
      in character for her to be uneasy about handling a rat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She also made a point of standing so that she couldn't see what
      the boys were doing, but angled slightly so that the rat - if he
      were so inclined - could in fact spy on them. Better to give him
      every opportunity to cheat now, to feel as smug and confident as
      possible in whatever he decided to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were quiet noises behind her as the boys exchanged
      gestures to work out who would go in, followed by the sound of the
      door opening and closing, then doing so again after a brief delay.
      At the second door closing, Hermione turned back to face Ron and
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok, just wait here. It might take a little while, since I'm
      going to be very careful, so please be patient? Oh, here," she
      added as if it was an afterthought, pulling a quill and a scrap of
      paper out of her bag and handing them to Harry, "once I've gone in,
      write down which of you went inside, and which corners you went to
      - it's important in science to document everything as you're doing
      it." Harry nodded, though he glanced at Ron, which probably meant
      Ron had gone into the room, but then the blind nature of the
      experiment wasn't actually the point, after all. That taken care
      of, Hermione entered the room and closed the door behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I really trust them to wait, though?" Hermione asked
      herself quietly, deliberately forcing uncertainty into her voice -
      though this was not all that hard, considering. She withdrew her
      wand from her bag and aimed it at the door. "<em class="calibre7">Colloportus</em>,"
      she said, making a tied-knot gesture with the wand tip. Throughout
      this process, she did not yet put Scabbers down. An Animagus
      transformation - indeed Transfiguration in general - conserved the
      location of the center of mass unless the accommodation of the
      process otherwise shifted it. But she obviously couldn't support
      the weight of an adult man with one hand, which meant if he
      reverted <em class="calibre7">now</em>, he'd probably end up falling at least 30
      centimetres or so to the floor, and Hermione was hoping he'd wait
      rather than risk turning an ankle or something. Either her guess
      was accurate, or his plans didn't suit changing yet, because the
      rat remained quiescent during this process.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When making her preparations, Hermione had picked the room
      partially due to its proximity to the Gryffindor common room, but
      also because it was a fully interior room and did not have any
      windows. She'd also carefully checked along the base of the walls
      around the room's perimeter for any chinks or holes a rat might
      squeeze through, and found none - thus the door was the only way in
      or out. She knew that if things went horribly wrong and the
      murderer somehow escaped what she'd planned - and had a wand - her
      simple Locking Charm wouldn't hold, but it would slow him at least
      a moment. While turning away from the door, she surreptitiously
      kicked what appeared to be an oddly-shaped collection of wood
      fragments about three inches high - it skittered on the stone floor
      and ended up roughly centered on the doorway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The classroom only held a handful of desks and no table, so her
      path to the center of the room was largely unobstructed. Hermione
      glanced around, making sure everything was in place, took a breath
      to steady herself, then started Step 4. She couldn't help tensing
      as she set the rat down on the floor - this was his first good
      chance to try something - but for the moment he seemed content to
      play his part as she was playing hers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll have to go over the spell a few more times," she said,
      "I'm sure Ron won't mind if you have some biscuits while you're
      waiting…" She removed a pair of Bourbon creams from her bag,
      setting them down before the rat, then reached back in for
      <em class="calibre7">Practical Household Magic</em>, all the time not letting go of
      her wand. Ostensibly this was to review the Supersensory Charm, but
      in actuality it was just a prop for a brief delay. Hermione watched
      carefully over the top edge of the book to see if the rat seemed at
      all suspicious, but he had begun devouring the chocolate-flavoured
      biscuits without hesitation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a little more than two minutes, he'd finished eating and
      cleaning his face and paws, and seeing Hermione still apparently
      muttering over her book, settled down patiently to nap. She waited
      as long as she dared, but if she waited <em class="calibre7">too</em> long most of
      her planning would end up wasted, and plus the longer she waited
      the more tense she became - she wasn't sure she'd have the nerve to
      go through with it. Hermione took a few more breaths that she'd
      intended to be calming, but had little effect on her churning
      stomach. Her hand shook a little as she tipped her wand down past
      the edge of the book, but she held her breath, waited for it to
      steady...waited…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Emméno</em>," she said, with a double-flick of her wand,
      aiming the (non-Permanent) Sticking Charm at the rat's left
      forepaw, currently resting against the stone floor, his other paw
      crossed over it and his head atop both.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At once, the rat awoke, and - as she'd hoped - instinctively
      planted its other paws for leverage to try to free the first.
      Hermione immediately cast another Sticking Charm at the other
      forepaw, then each of wthe two rear paws for good measure, ignoring
      the rat's increasingly frantic squeaking. Hermione put the book
      back into her bag and kept her wand trained on her captive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You needn't bother - without a wand in hand, I'm pretty sure
      you couldn't get loose from even one of those, let alone four.
      Also, I know you're not a natural rat, and that you murdered Madam
      Pomfrey, probably because she discovered that too." Hermione tried
      to deliver this declaration in a tone of quiet confidence, but she
      found by the end her voice was a bit shaky. Her wand, at least,
      stayed steady enough, if not quite as steady as the proverbial
      rock. As for the rat, he had frozen, looking up at her by the start
      of the second sentence. By the end...the rat's form had begun
      shifting, growing. Hermione readied herself just in case it turned
      out her tests hadn't been rigorous enough, or the results couldn't
      be extended to an Animagus transformation...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But they had, and could, and she relaxed - slightly. The rat had
      become an adult man. It was hard to tell in his current posture,
      but it seemed like he was on the short side, balding, in casual
      robes that had deteriorated to the point that they were little more
      than rags. Even if he was short for an adult, he was decidedly
      rounded, and probably outweighed Hermione by at least a factor of
      three. His slightly beady eyes rolled wildly, his face a mixture of
      outrage and fear - but much more of the latter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Hermione had tested, with the help of a few Engorgement and
      Shrinking Charms, a Sticking Charm retained its enchantment even
      under shifts in size, and thus his entire palms were still affixed
      quite firmly to the stone floor, rather than tiny rat-paw-sized
      patches of them. His shoes were not - Hermione supposed because
      whatever kept his clothing suspended in the transformation didn't
      apply to the accommodation of the Sticking Charm, so the charms on
      his feet had dissipated being otherwise separated from the floor -
      or perhaps were simply holding his shoes on? And though the centers
      of the charms on his hands had shifted, each area had to continue
      to overlap the original area defined by the spell, so his hands
      were now touching, thumb-to-thumb. Unable to support himself in
      that position, he'd toppled forward, his legs splaying out, elbows
      bent awkwardly to avoid putting uncomfortable pressure on his
      wrists. He looked up at Hermione in a panic, eyes wild.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no, no...you have it all wrong! I'm a marked man, I'm
      hunted, I <em class="calibre7">had</em> to hide...but I didn't kill the Healer, I
      didn't!" Hermione wasn't inclined to simply take his word for it,
      but he <em class="calibre7">did</em> seem truly terrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were <em class="calibre7">there</em>...the staff checked, and no one else
      could've done it," she pointed out, reaching into her bag with one
      hand while the other kept her wand on him. The man shook his head
      frantically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre7">staff</em> checked...was Snape one of them?" Hermione
      frowned, and the man's expression became desperately triumphant.
      "He's always been one for lying and sneaking and secrets...I saw
      him kill Pomfrey with my own eyes...I only just managed to open
      that cage and escape before he set up that subterfuge with the
      salamander blood and the quills, protected by a Bubble-Head Charm
      the whole time! When the other staff investigated, he must've
      interfered...subtly, carefully...and covered his tracks!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Hermione tried to wrap her head around this accusation,
      another part of her automatically continued the plan, since either
      way, there was no good reason not to. She did not direct her wand
      away from her prisoner, but instead brought her other hand around
      in front of it just long enough for her <em class="calibre7">Finite</em> to catch
      the tiny object she held, which - no longer under the influence of
      seven stacked Shrinking Charms - agreeably ballooned outward until
      it was the normal-sized magical camera she'd borrowed from Penelope
      Clearwater. As much as she would have liked to quip 'Watch the
      birdie…' or something, surprise was paramount in the Plan as she
      didn't want him to have any chance to transform back into a rat at
      this point. So while the man was still trying to grasp what he was
      seeing, she centered him in the viewfinder and poked the shutter
      button with the tip of her wand. He blinked and sputtered from the
      large flash, looking even more desperate if anything. Hermione set
      down the camera carefully, keeping her eyes and wand on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What motive could Professor Snape possibly have for killing
      Madam Pomfrey?" Hermione asked, though there was not as much
      skepticism in her voice as there might have been. She now rather
      regretted not having had Harry explain precisely what he believed
      about the Potions Professor. Before the man could respond, a loud
      pounding began on the door, and muffled voices. Hermione simply
      sighed, while her prisoner startled violently, wincing at the pain
      this produced in his hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Merlin, who's that?!" he cried. Hermione shook her
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is the sound of someone who - presumably because they are
      Gryffindors, or possibly because they are boys - upon hearing a
      Reminder Charm on a quill tell them there is an emergency and to
      find whoever of Professors McGonagall, Flitwick, Quirrell or
      Dumbledore is nearest and bring them here as fast as they can,
      rather than doing <em class="calibre7">that</em>, have instead elected to shout and
      also pound pointlessly on the door that I prudently took the
      precaution of sealing. Though the latter was mostly for
      <em class="calibre7">you</em>," she added dryly. "Professor Snape?" she prompted,
      after a moment. The man blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's a secret Death Eater, has been for years! Pomfrey must
      have suspected something about me after all those tests she did,
      and he somehow learned of it first - I'm marked, I tell you, I was
      in the Order of the Phoenix, fought against the Dark Lord...Snape
      came to do unspeakable things to me, but first he had to eliminate
      the witness…" Hermione stared. That was ridiculous, Professor Snape
      was...well, a <em class="calibre7">Professor</em>. Teachers didn't go around being
      evil and murdering people, they just <em class="calibre7">didn't</em>. And if you
      <em class="calibre7">were</em> secretly evil, why on Earth would you go around
      deliberately trying to <em class="calibre7">look</em> evil? Professor Snape, like
      anyone, probably had various problems, but being stupid didn't
      <em class="calibre7">appear</em> to be one of them. And yet, Harry had learned
      <em class="calibre7">something</em>… Hermione glanced at the door, but by now the
      pounding had stopped. Looking back, she found the man had also
      noticed, and his panic had increased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you have any evidence of that, other than your claim that he
      killed Madam Pomfrey? And if you knew he was evil, why didn't you
      just tell Dumbledore earlier? You've been living with the Weaselys
      - <em class="calibre7">as a rat</em> - for years!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...<em class="calibre7">didn't</em> have evidence! If I'd accused him, Snape
      would've wiggled out of it somehow, and then some odorless,
      tasteless potion would've found its way into my soup, and I'd have
      tragically choked to death or something!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So just tell Professor Dumbledore what you told me,
      surely-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snape's muddied the waters, I told you! Unless...you could let
      me go, let me be a rat again, use your Charm, and I'm <em class="calibre7">sure</em>
      I can find Snape's trail. But even with him in Azkaban, the Dark
      Lord still has other secret supporters, I'd never be safe...just
      don't tell anyone, let me live as a rat, please, I'm fine with it,
      I'm a <em class="calibre7">good</em> rat…" Hermione's confidence was wavering, but
      her sense of propriety just couldn't let this last one go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, you can't just carry on sleeping in children's beds as a
      rat, it's just...you just <em class="calibre7">can't,</em> okay?" She shuddered.
      "And besides, I, ah, don't actually think the Supersensory Charm
      will work that way...that was a sort of trap. Just wait, the
      Headmaster is a really amazing wizard, I'm <em class="calibre7">sure</em> he can
      think of a way to keep you safe…" The man, who'd been staring at
      her throughout, began to thrash, his face twisted in frustration
      and terror, eyes rolling wildly, wincing each time he strained to
      free his hands - one of which, Hermione noted, was missing a
      finger. Suddenly he slumped into a sort of dejected squat, his chin
      falling to his chest. "I'm really sorry," Hermione said, feeling a
      lot less good about the whole thing than she'd expected to, "I
      can't release you, but if you're telling the truth, everything will
      work out...somehow…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Could</em> Snape have actually done it? Hermione still
      didn't know what spells the staff had used to investigate, maybe
      they <em class="calibre7">could</em> be fooled, particularly if you knew in advance
      what spells were likely to be tried, and were actually present
      there to make certain. But could he have done it right under the
      Headmaster's nose? Then again, while Professor Dumbledore - at
      minimum - had been sharp enough to suspect foul play, <em class="calibre7">he</em>
      hadn't managed to find Scabbers <em class="calibre7">or</em> Professor Snape, so
      maybe he <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> infallible. And that bit about muddying
      the waters wasn't hard to imagine, given how easily her future self
      had done it to <em class="calibre7">her</em>. But something else had occurred to
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you were just running for your life, why did you steal
      Lavender's wand? And, more importantly, why run back to Ron's room,
      if you say Professor Snape <em class="calibre7">knew</em> who you were, wouldn't he
      just-" Hermione's question was interrupted by a terrible cry of
      mingled exertion and pain as the man lunged upwards from his squat
      with desperate strength. His scream mixed with a nightmarishly
      <em class="calibre7">wet</em> sound as all the skin from both of his palms tore
      free, gory handprints left behind on the stone. He staggered back a
      step, off balance from the sudden lack of resistance, his face
      contorted in pain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had tried to think of ways the Plan could go wrong at
      each stage. She'd moved all the furniture away from the center of
      the room (and put some of it to other use, besides) so he couldn't
      reach anything with his feet, or with a free hand in the event
      she'd only been able to get one stuck before he transformed. But
      <em class="calibre7">this</em> hadn't occurred to her at all, and even though she
      still had contingencies that might help, she simply wasn't
      emotionally prepared for the sight of a man mutilating himself to
      get free of spells <em class="calibre7">she'd</em> cast. And she wasn't even sure he
      was <em class="calibre7">guilty</em> anymore, he might just be so terrified he'd
      lost his reason. She froze in indecision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of his bloody hands reached into his tattered robes and
      pulled out Lavender's wand, face twisting as he tightened his
      flayed hand around it, pointed it at her. A part of her noted that
      this <em class="calibre7">still</em> didn't prove anything, but the rest of her
      decided it still <em class="calibre7">looked pretty bad</em>, and her hesitation
      broke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus</em>!" she cried, giving her wand the
      appropriate diagonal flick. But the man slashed his wand downward,
      causing a bright flash as her spell was parried. He aimed his wand
      back at her, but Hermione had planned this sequence in advance and
      was already dropping onto her stomach, her own wand extended. His
      wordless spell finished first, but sailed over her and struck the
      wall behind. But he was still fast and experienced, and was able to
      sweep his wand down in another parry as Hermione shouted,
      "<em class="calibre7">Illubrico</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, the strategy she'd worked out had called for her to -
      just in case he already had a Shield up - aim this spell at the
      <em class="calibre7">floor</em>, and since the Lubricating Charm did not form a
      visible projectile, he was unable to adjust his parry to block the
      spell's unexpected trajectory. The stone became nearly
      frictionless, and the man's feet shot out from under him, dropping
      him heavily onto his back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this point, Hermione hesitated - she was encouraged that her
      spell combination was actually <em class="calibre7">working</em>, but the next part
      called for her to manually trigger a fail-safe that ought to
      disable him. Except during her planning, she'd presumed that if
      things reached this point she would be in a life-or-death struggle
      and basically <em class="calibre7">anything</em> would be justified - including the
      fail-safe, which might cause serious injury or even death - whereas
      now she was uncertain enough to question that. But her instincts
      said she had no choice - and as long as he wasn't killed outright,
      if he <em class="calibre7">was</em> innocent, Madam Wainscott and the Professors
      ought to be able to set everything right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the brief hesitation to weigh the moral considerations had
      been costly, and even as she began to point her wand upward, her
      opponent had recovered from his fall and launched his own spell.
      Hermione tried to dodge, but she was too slow, and before she even
      got two syllables out, her wand was sailing out of her hand to
      clatter into a corner of the room. <em class="calibre7">I should've thought of that,
      tied a safety strap to it or something, but I was expecting Curses,
      not a</em> Disarming <em class="calibre7">Charm, maybe he really</em> isn't <em class="calibre7">a
      horrible murderer after-</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Crucio!</em>" snarled the man, struggling to his feet.
      Blood spattered the stone beneath him, scattered drips from his
      free hand mixing with staccato spurts between the fingers of the
      other, squeezed out by the pressure of his grip on the wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thought vanished as Hermione's world became pain. It was like
      her blood was on fire, or like her blood had been Transfigured to
      hydrofluoric acid, or something even <em class="calibre7">more</em> gruesome, except
      she couldn't really <em class="calibre7">form</em> these concepts, only feel them -
      there was no <em class="calibre7">room</em> for anything but the searing, hateful
      agony. And then it was suddenly gone, leaving her twitching and
      panting on the stone floor - blood no longer burning, but muscles
      still aching from their involuntary contractions, her cheeks wet
      with tears, one of her fingernails chipped from clawing at the hard
      surface beneath her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me what you know about me<em class="calibre7">,</em> what you've
      <em class="calibre7">told!</em>" screeched the man. "Tell me, so I can <em class="calibre7">fix</em>
      it…" Murderer or not, he was clearly unhinged at this point, and
      Hermione was terrified - she was pretty sure she'd do
      <em class="calibre7">anything</em> not to feel that pain again. But she still only
      answered the second part of his mad demands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Y-you...were <em class="calibre7">there</em>...only w-what I...told Ron and
      Harry," she stammered out, between gasping sobs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Who else?!</em> <em class="calibre7">You</em> didn't plan this trap
      yourself, <em class="calibre7">who is helping you?!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's mind cast about frantically for what he might
      <em class="calibre7">want</em> to hear. She wondered if he'd believe her if she told
      the whole truth...maybe that'd be enough time for a Professor to
      actually get here, since it seemed like the man's own
      heart-pounding fear - and maybe the pain in his hands - was
      interfering with what was supposed to have been her second
      fail-safe. And the Cruciatus Curse hadn't triggered the
      first...maybe that was why it could eventually drive a victim
      insane, you never lost consciousness from its effects, no matter
      how much you might <em class="calibre7">want</em> to? He raised the wand again, and
      Hermione's train of thought vanished as she immediately began to
      speak as fast as she could form the words, her brain barely
      connected to her mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one, <em class="calibre7">honestly</em>, I tried to talk to Dumbledore but I
      couldn't get into his office or he was out and I asked the Defence
      Professor for advice but it was all hypothetical and they all think
      I've been hexed so I needed real proof which is why I borrowed the
      camera, but the trap I just <em class="calibre7">thought</em> about and I've always
      been quite good at thinking, but now I'm rather suspecting I'm not
      smart at <em class="calibre7">all</em> and maybe I <em class="calibre7">should</em> have been in
      Gryffindor, because I can't <em class="calibre7">imagine</em> how I expected for a
      <em class="calibre7">second</em> any of this would-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Dissocio,</em>" he interrupted, swishing Lavender's wand
      downward into a alternating flick at the end. Hermione gasped -
      recognizing a Disassembly Spell, and suddenly horrified at the
      thought of what it might do to a human body - but the spell was not
      aimed at her. Instead the camera turned into an exploded diagram of
      itself, all its individual parts separating and hanging in the air
      for a moment, then dropping gently to the floor. "<em class="calibre7">Accio</em>
      proof," he continued, waving the wand vaguely at the scattering of
      camera parts, and the film agreeably soared towards his free hand,
      but he recognized the problem with this and an additional flick
      sent the roll to the floor in front of him before it could contact
      his bloody, fleshless palm. Another flick and the mottled
      appearance of the exposed film changed to a uniform brown-black. A
      final swirling motion sent the film and all the camera parts back
      together, each fitting neatly into its proper place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the man was carefully destroying her evidence, Hermione
      shakily stood up. Her wand was several yards away, and the only
      other ways of deliberately triggering her fail-safe she could think
      of seemed both unwise and unreliable. Though if it appeared he was
      about to use the Cruciatus on her again, she thought she might just
      go ahead and try one anyway. In the interim, she tried edging
      towards her wand as subtly as she could. She'd only made it about
      halfway when his attention turned back to her, whereupon she froze
      and tried to give the impression she was terrified into abject
      submission - a feat which did not require much acting ability,
      under the circumstances.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Accio</em> wand," he said, aiming his own wand to the side,
      but keeping his eyes on her. Hermione's wand obediently leaped into
      the air and landed neatly in his free hand. He grunted at the pain
      this caused, but maintained his grip on it. "Trying to be clever?
      With <em class="calibre7">me</em>? I can <em class="calibre7">always</em> see what people want to
      hide..." The little man gave a hollow laugh, and Hermione couldn't
      keep disappointment from touching her features. He tucked
      Lavender's wand into his robes, and switched Hermione's to his
      right hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What...what are you going to do now?" she asked, her curiosity
      only barely edging out her fear at hearing the answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No time to stage a convincing death scene for you, it'll have
      to be a Memory Charm," he mused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you <em class="calibre7">did</em> do it. But...if you can do Memory Charms,
      why did you kill Madam Pomfrey in the first place?" Hermione asked,
      aghast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not very good at them," he said, with a shrug and an
      elaborate yawn. Hermione's heart briefly swelled with hope, but
      even if the Liquid Sheep she'd dosed the biscuits with was finally
      starting to kick in, it was taking forever...the dose must've been
      diluted within his greater body mass. But if he kept talking long
      enough… "I don't know enough Potions to pass off that kind of
      mental damage as an accident. But with that convenient Hex as an
      excuse, I can probably get you shipped off to St. Mungo's
      permanently, convinced of something ridiculous - say, that
      Grindelwald had escaped and had for some reason transfigured
      himself into a desk somewhere in Hogwarts…later, when I've had
      enough time to work something out and suspicion to die down, I can
      arrange a tragic accident for you too. " He raised her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" interrupted Hermione, desperately. "If you're going to
      Obliviate me anyway, can you explain why you were <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      hiding as a rat first?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would the point in that be?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm a <em class="calibre7">Ravenclaw</em>. If I have a choice between
      not-knowing and knowing...even temporarily...I'll choose knowing."
      For a moment, it looked as if he actually empathized with her, but
      the rat-faced man shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I recognize stalling when I see it, and reinforcements could
      arrive any minute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione dove to one side as he opened his mouth again. She
      didn't have much hope of actually dodging the spell he was about to
      cast, so she also flung her arms backwards, piking forward,
      <em class="calibre7">trying</em> to hit the stone floor headfirst as hard as she
      could manage and if she was very lucky, triggering the other
      fail-safe before-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Petrificus Totalus!</em>" The spell might have helped her,
      preventing an instinctive flinch, except that it also forced her
      rail-straight, so the impact was distributed more evenly across her
      entire body instead of just her forehead as she'd intended. It
      still hurt when her nose hit the floor, but not as much as the
      realization that she hadn't planned carefully enough, she hadn't
      read enough...she was going to be Obliviated <em class="calibre7">again</em>,
      probably be committed, and then - at some point - die.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't supposed to have been like this. Probably all kinds of
      people thought something like that in their final moments of
      clarity before some ignominious end, but Hermione suspected she was
      unique in actually having fairly strong <em class="calibre7">evidence</em> on which
      to base that assertion. If this was how Time really worked, this
      disproportionate ruination of everything, she didn't think much of
      how the Universe was arranged. It was petty and nonsensical and
      frankly, someone ought to put Time in its place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She really hoped someone would, even if it obviously wasn't
      going to be her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Obliviate</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a terrible wrenching disorientation.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
