<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 18 - Struggle, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s23" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18: Struggle</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione found herself lost in chaos. It was like when she'd
      fallen into her older self's memories, in the Library, except this
      time it was Hogwarts' history she was seeing. But only fragments,
      in no sensible order, some things mixed together. She saw the
      school run by a Blood Purist Headmistress. She saw students die.
      She saw the Founders, blending their incomprehensibly strong magic
      into to the magic of the land itself, to give the castle a kind of
      permanence and <em class="calibre7">life</em> that no later structure would match.
      She saw Triwizard Tournaments (and more students die,
      incidentally). She saw Salazar Slytherin and Godric Gryffindor in
      such a row that the veins stood out in their necks, but they never
      touched their wands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It all became a jumble, one thing running into another with no
      pattern, too fast to follow, and just as Hermione began to fear for
      her sanity, it faded, withdrew. She could <em class="calibre7">feel</em>, somehow,
      that it was still happening somewhere inside her, and realized she
      was being shielded from the Memory Charm - at least for the moment
      - but at a terrible cost. Worse, her instinctive interpretation of
      the sensations suggested desperation and weakness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione spared no time on grief for the other her, and simply
      felt grateful, while she frantically searched for some way out of
      this mess. But while she was still paralyzed, unless she somehow
      deduced how to produce wandless, motionless magic in the next
      couple of minutes, it seemed like this was only delaying the
      inevitable. Maybe if she was <em class="calibre7">wrong</em> about her protection
      being temporary, he would finish his spell, thinking it was
      successful, but allowing her to act freely?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then her nose, pressed against the stone floor, twitched. As the
      rest of her body gradually followed in returning to her control,
      Hermione controlled her shock and tried to keep herself as rigid as
      she'd been before - she wasn't sure how much spare attention a
      Memory Charm left the caster, but she could not afford to let the
      murderer notice something was awry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione began to think even faster, mystified as to what hat
      her older self had pulled <em class="calibre7">this</em> rabbit from, her heart
      racing apace with her brain. She could move now, and that was a
      <em class="calibre7">significant</em> improvement, but her options were nevertheless
      rather limited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could just wait and hope that the sleeping potion would slow
      or disable him, or Ron or Harry would show up with a Professor
      before the Memory Charm fought its way through, but that was a pure
      gamble. Banking on his Memory Charm finishing before it chewed
      through her other self and reached her own mind was a similar bet
      on unknown odds. She could try to run for the door, but it was
      still sealed, and without her wand, she had no way to open it. She
      could try, again, to knock herself unconscious to trigger her
      fail-safe, but Hermione doubted she had the strength to do so from
      a prone position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione closed her eyes, picturing her last view of the scene
      before she'd dived to the floor, examining every detail she'd seen.
      Her surroundings, cleared of anything useful save her own impotent
      "fail-safes", the murderer, looming before her, a wand gripped in
      each hand, blood dripping from the man's flayed palms-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A rather Gryffindorish idea occurred to her at that point, but
      she made note of it, set it aside, and continued to consider the
      situation carefully. The floor was still lubricated from her spell,
      which meant he was either standing very carefully, or, more likely,
      had moved away from his previous position, which meant in turn that
      her fail-safe was probably entirely useless at the moment - a
      rather significant hole in her original preparations, she now
      realized. But there could still be some of the lubricant on his
      shoes from contact, as well as the blood randomly dripping from his
      hands. She could try to tackle him, and hope the treacherous
      footing would aid her, but despite his stature, he still outweighed
      her and was probably stronger as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suppose she just stood up, blank faced and glassy-eyed...was it
      plausible that a Memory Charm might allow something akin to
      sleepwalking, or interfere with a Full Body-Bind? Maybe the FBB was
      a mental block, and not an actual physical force. Even if that
      <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> the case, he'd admitted he wasn't very good with
      Memory Charms, and he'd fallen for the Supersensory Charm
      notion...maybe he wouldn't know for <em class="calibre7">sure</em> - possibly be
      thrown enough to delay, to investigate? But he <em class="calibre7">had</em> seen
      through her edging towards her wand, and seemed much better at
      intuiting intent than she was - now that he wasn't as overconfident
      - certainly better than she was at deceiving in the first place. He
      probably wouldn't let her just shuffle within reach of him in any
      case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yet...his obvious <em class="calibre7">pride</em> in learning what other
      people wanted to hide, his seeming empathy when she'd begged him to
      explain, just so she could <em class="calibre7">know</em>. What if he thought he'd
      <em class="calibre7">lose</em> something by continuing the charm...something he'd
      never get back...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the seconds ticked down with no further insights, Hermione
      grew a bit desperate. Carefully choosing a course of action from
      all the available options was all well and good, but there
      <em class="calibre7">were</em> such things as time constraints, and sometimes you
      were just forced to work with what you had. An unlikely feat of
      agility and dexterity - neither of which were strengths, though she
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> been working on dexterity at least - or a far-fetched
      deception to lure him into making a mistake. She could feel the
      Memory Charm nearly touching her, and she made an instinctive
      decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione dutifully rehearsed the plan, imagining likely slips,
      making corrections. When she felt a grey fog creeping in at the
      edges of her vision, she knew she could wait no longer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...Memory...for the best...never know...secret…" she murmured
      into the floor, but loudly enough that - assuming he could hear at
      all - he couldn't miss it. She tensed, ready to try the other plan
      if it seemed he hadn't heard through his concentration, or was
      otherwise not taking the bait. But immediately, she felt - somehow
      - the Memory Charm slow, then <em class="calibre7">pause</em>, but not stop. There
      were bare tatters of her other self's protection left, nothing that
      could be called <em class="calibre7">thought</em>. The best metaphor Hermione could
      come up with, from a source as mysterious as the sensation itself,
      was as if a book had been dropped, page-by-page, into a diamond-cut
      document shredder, then a tablespoon of what remained was sprinkled
      into a spiderweb.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two quick footsteps - and a noise that suggested he'd nearly
      slipped but recovered himself - then she felt a hand roughly
      turning her over onto her back. She kept herself mostly but not
      <em class="calibre7">entirely</em> stiff, leaving room for some awareness - beyond
      her having spoken at all - that she wasn't fully frozen...he
      mustn't be <em class="calibre7">too</em> startled when she did move, lest he jerk
      away in surprise. But she did try to keep her face slack, her eyes
      dull and half-open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? What secret?" he demanded. Hermione could see now that
      he'd put one of the wands away, and held only one - hers - in his
      right hand. But she forced herself to keep her eyes unfocused, not
      even to glance at it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...you...don't know…" she murmured, more quietly, airily
      raising her right hand to point at him. His eyes widened in
      confusion and he leaned in closer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">What secret, what</em> don't I know?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione smoothly extended her reach, grasped her wand, and
      pulled as hard as she could. As she'd hoped, the blood on his palms
      had not congealed, but was still flowing from the horrible damage
      he'd done to them. It acted as a lubricant, and despite her
      disadvantage in relative strength - though his missing index finger
      no doubt helped there - her wand slid free of his grip, eliciting a
      hiss of pain. Her sense of the suspended Memory Charm vanished
      instantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're even <em class="calibre7">worse</em> at Memory Charms than you
      <em class="calibre7">thought</em>!" Hermione shouted into his face. She couldn't
      cast with the wand reversed, or holding it like an ice-pick, so as
      she shouted, she twirled it in her hand like a baton - thanking her
      juggling exercises. But even as she closed her fingers back around
      the wand in a proper grip, the man overcame his pain and surprise
      and reached out to wrest it back from her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With no time or room to cast, she flung her arm to the side to
      keep it from his reach, and though his shoes slid and he half-fell,
      it was mostly <em class="calibre7">onto</em> her, pinning her wrist against the
      stone. When she tried to take the wand out of her right hand with
      her left, he seized her left wrist - her skin crawling as his
      flayed hand wrapped around it - and wrenched it to the other side
      of her body, pinning it just as he had her right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione kicked at his legs and body, but their respective
      positions didn't allow her to do much more than annoy him, and - no
      doubt by design - she couldn't bend her wrist enough in this
      position to point her wand at any part of him. But lying on her
      back, past his furious, half-panicked expression, she saw something
      she <em class="calibre7">could</em> target. She bent her wrist as far as she could
      manage, aiming the wand at the ceiling in the center of the room.
      Silently thanking Professor Quirrell for the extra bit of practice,
      she jerked it upwards as sharply as she could, giving it the proper
      back-and-forth half twist, and <em class="calibre7">hoping</em> the tiny distance
      she was able to thrust it with her wrist pinned was sufficient.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">FINITE INCANTATEM!</em>" she roared. The murderer's face
      was contemptuous, though shaded with a hint of confusion. He began
      shaking her wrist and slamming it against the floor, trying to
      dislodge her wand, but Hermione hung onto it doggedly - her spell,
      if it had been successful, was already cast, but it was a
      distraction at best and she couldn't afford to lose her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During her preparations - what seemed like years ago - Hermione
      had selected the classroom's heavy worktable as the best candidate
      for her failsafe. She'd discovered that - after multiple Shrinking
      Charms - the formerly very sturdy and thick oak legs could be
      removed by a succession of Severing Charms that would've been
      useless against them otherwise. After she'd removed them all,
      Hermione had managed to charm the table's surface to nearly the
      exact color of the ceiling, then lodge it there amongst the
      vaulting with the strongest Floating Charm she'd been able to cast
      after multiple attempts - and positioned precisely over the spot on
      which she'd planned to stick Scabbers to the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The thick slab of oak - which Hermione had estimated weighed at
      least 50 kg - now restored by her <em class="calibre7">Finite</em> to its original
      color, size, and mass, and freed as well of the magic which had
      been maintaining its vertical position a good fifteen feet up,
      dropped to the floor about two yards behind them with a tremendous
      crash.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The murderer, in a panic, released her in order to scramble
      away, looking around wildly for the source of the noise even as he
      fumbled in his robes for Lavender's wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't waste time by trying to get to her own feet, she
      just swung her own wand over to track him, aiming across the length
      of her body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Petrificus Totalus!</em>" He'd managed to get Lavender's
      wand out, but not fast enough to parry. The spell, however, failed
      to contact him as he instead used his Animagus transformation to
      dodge, his form shrinking rapidly down to that of a rat again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Now</em> Hermione leaped to her feet, and sent spell after
      spell towards the rat, starting with more Full Body-Binds but
      switching to <em class="calibre7">Rictusempra</em> which was slightly quicker to
      cast, then Engorgement Charms, which were faster still and might
      make him easier to hit subsequently, and finally - steeling herself
      - Severing Charms, which were the fastest yet. But the rat was too
      small and quick, and she couldn't land anything. Even after she
      tossed in another Lubricating Charm - which affected a sizeable
      patch when cast at the floor - given the benefit of claws it barely
      affected his speed at all, though he did seem to have slightly less
      manoeuvrability.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But despite all her efforts, she saw he was aiming for - and
      likely going to reach - some of the desks she'd moved to the back
      wall of the classroom. Hermione realized that if he managed to
      shift back to human shape <em class="calibre7">behind</em> them, he'd both have some
      cover <em class="calibre7">and</em> be able to parry spells, while she would benefit
      from neither. She turned her back and sprinted for the door, wand
      extended before her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stupefy</em>!" she heard in the distance behind her, at the
      same instant she cast her own spell. Not at the door, but the small
      irregular pile of wood fragments she'd taken care to center just
      past the doorway as she'd entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem!</em>" she yelled, leaping upward and
      forward. Despite her attempt to avoid it, her feet were caught
      slightly by the rapid expansion of the tangled pile of chairs and
      desks she'd repeatedly <em class="calibre7">Reducio</em>'d into manageability,
      causing her to tip forward in her jump and crash into the door
      heavily. But the pile itself blocked the Stunning Spell, and she
      was encouraged to find herself still awake and alive. The pile had
      been meant originally as a contingency - another wildly optimistic
      one, she now realized - against blocking <em class="calibre7">pursuit</em> if she
      had been forced to flee. Cover hadn't even occurred to her...not
      having ever <em class="calibre7">been</em> in an actual spell duel, her analysis of
      likely outcomes and tactics had been woefully incomplete.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione wanted to take a moment to catch her breath and shake
      the fog out of her thoughts that had come from hitting the door
      nearly headfirst, but from the other end of the room she heard an
      incantation she did not recognize, followed by two she
      <em class="calibre7">did</em>, but which taken together were all extremely alarming
      and highly motivating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Bombarda Maxima! Stupefy! Avada Kedavra!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione recalled, at some point in the past week, idly
      wondering what the propagation speed of targeted spells was, and
      further, if it varied. In broad terms, it was clear that they were
      generally fast enough that simply dodging wasn't <em class="calibre7">easy</em>, but
      not so fast that parrying or dodging physically wasn't
      <em class="calibre7">possible</em>. She had, at the time, been in the middle of
      something else and hadn't interrupted it to jot the question down
      on her list. Now the question was of significantly more than
      academic interest, as the classroom was long, but not <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, in a time-saving instinct inspired by pure terror,
      tried an Unlocking Charm, which was both two syllables shorter than
      the General Counter-Curse, and - if properly cast - would cause the
      sealed item in question to <em class="calibre7">physically open</em> as well without
      requiring additional effort on her part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Alohomora!"</em> she cried, twitching her wand in a quick
      double-flick upward and leaning away from the door to give it room
      to move. As soon as it had opened just wide enough she dove
      forward. But Hermione had scarcely made it halfway through when she
      was flung upwards and tossed towards the opposing corridor wall as
      her makeshift barricade - along with most of the door as well as
      some of the stone floor and doorway itself - exploded with shocking
      violence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Aaahhh-</em><em class="calibre7">Arresto Mo-</em>" she started, trying to
      convert her scream into something more useful, but even if she'd
      had the focus to cast under the circumstances, there was simply not
      enough time over the short distance across the corridor, and her
      incantation was cut short as she was slammed brutally against the
      stone wall, then battered and scoured by fragments of debris as she
      dropped heavily to the floor. The scattered contents of her bag
      joined her, loose sheets of paper fluttering everywhere, some
      covered in notes, others blank - some of the latter having been
      liberated from her copy of <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, a History</em>, whose
      oddly worn binding it seemed had finally given out completely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione hurt <em class="calibre7">everywhere</em>, she felt dizzy and nauseated,
      and she seemed to be having trouble hearing, both in general and
      from a persistent ringing. Accordingly, she mostly <em class="calibre7">saw</em>,
      rather than heard, the impact of two searing magical bolts slam in
      quick succession into the wall above her, the blazing red a metre
      or so up, while the sinister green only missed her by centimetres.
      It also felt like something warm was trickling through her hair,
      and she suspected this was very bad without devoting too much of
      her very limited focus to it. She had somehow, in a small miracle,
      maintained her grip on her wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Through the dust filling the air in the corridor and the
      otherwise-open doorway, Hermione could see the rough outline of the
      murderer approaching from the far end of the room. She could not
      make out his expression, but she imagined it was grimly satisfied,
      though still a bit worried, because <em class="calibre7">this</em> would be pretty
      hard to cover up, and the noise presumably meant people would now
      be rushing here from every direction. Really his best bet at this
      point would be to make <em class="calibre7">certain</em> she was dead, transform and
      lie low, and then show up later and hope no one would suspect the
      rat. The shape of his silhouette suggested he was raising his wand,
      but he hadn't cast yet - he probably couldn't quite make her out,
      lying as she was against the wall and surrounded by dust and
      debris. But as soon as he was close enough to see that he'd missed,
      and be more sure of his aim...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed like she should do something about that, and a very
      tired part of her thought just playing dead would be a fine idea,
      but Hermione rejected this as more groundless optimism. If
      <em class="calibre7">she</em> were evil, she'd certainly make <em class="calibre7">sure</em> her
      enemy was dead. Though when she tried raise her wand arm to do
      <em class="calibre7">something</em>, she nearly fainted from the sharp stab of pain.
      It hadn't really registered in the general chorus of her body's
      many complaints until she moved it - some part of her wondered
      curiously if <em class="calibre7">that's</em> what a broken bone felt like. Her arm
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> already pointing in roughly the right direction,
      however, and conveniently she'd <em class="calibre7">just</em> had a little practice
      in casting with only her wrist. She tried to keep her arm as still
      as possible and though it still hurt quite a bit managed to the
      complete the wand motions for a Full Body-Bind this time, but when
      she took a deeper breath to speak the incantation, she felt another
      stab, now in her chest, and despite herself released what little
      air she'd claimed in a croaking cry. The man must've heard, because
      the speed with which his shape through the dust was growing closer
      seemed to increase, and very faintly, mostly by the rhythm, she
      managed to make out "<em class="calibre7">Expelliarmus"</em>, repeated several times
      without pause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This seemed manifestly unfair, so Hermione, in an impulse born
      as much from petulance as tactics, simply opened her fingers and
      let the wand fall to the stone floor. Or she would have, except now
      the murderer's blood on the wand <em class="calibre7">was</em> congealing and it had
      adhered relatively well to her palm. She felt a tingle as one of
      the wildly-aimed spells struck her, but the wand remained. Sticking
      didn't count as <em class="calibre7">holding</em>? She began to laugh, but the
      stabbing pain in her chest stopped her quickly. Hermione instead
      stuck her tongue out, thinking of Hannah Abbott roughly a million
      years ago at the Sorting, and vaguely wondered if she was thinking
      clearly, but dismissed the question as not something she was
      equipped to address right now. Yet through the fog and distraction,
      she <em class="calibre7">did</em> remember that she was meant to be doing something,
      and though it sent another stab of agony up her arm, she closed her
      fingers back around the wand and stubbornly tried the gestures once
      more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Whether it was the fact that she was now bracing herself for it
      - and had suffered the <em class="calibre7">Cruciatus</em> Curse not long ago and
      had somewhat recalibrated her scale for what <em class="calibre7">agony</em> meant -
      or perhaps simply that she was going into shock and beginning to
      lose feeling entirely, this time she was able to maintain her focus
      through the pain, and to draw <em class="calibre7">just</em> enough breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Petrificus Totalus,</em>" she whispered, and the way her
      hearing was, she couldn't really tell if she'd even managed to
      speak aloud. Maybe the murderer couldn't either, or his reactions
      were dulled by the cumulative contest of the Liquid Sheep versus
      his adrenaline, but he didn't begin a parry until - to Hermione's
      mild surprise - a blue-white flash of light burst from her
      wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But by then, at their current distance, it was too late. His
      limbs snapped into alignment with his body and he toppled forward
      through the doorway, his eyes full of disbelief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The surge of relief washed away what little adrenaline Hermione
      had left. Her vision went dark, and the world fell away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared up at a cloudless blue sky. She was outside? But
      she'd been in the castle...doing...something… Feeling something
      smooth and slightly cool under her hand, she bent her neck forward
      and saw she was wearing a simple but lovely blue silk dress, her
      slippered feet peeking from under the hem. Part of the curve of the
      Black Lake was visible beyond...also, she seemed to be lying on a
      table. She turned her head to the right, away from the lake, then
      immediately sat up and swung her legs off of the table, trying to
      make sense of what she was seeing, though it was uncomfortably
      familiar. Facing her were rows upon rows of chairs, though not very
      many were filled. All of the Ravenclaws in her year were there,
      plus Roger Davies and Penelope Clearwater, the older girl fussing
      over her camera. Ron and Harry sat together, and the Weasley Twins,
      plus Hannah and Lavender were nearby. The latter was whispering to
      Parvati, next to her, but she was glancing unhappily at Neville,
      who was focused on clutching Trevor tightly in his lap. Tracey
      Davis was tugging on Theodore Nott's sleeve, trying to tell him
      something, but he was ignoring her. All her Professors were also
      there, plus the girl from the train, Tonks, along with the
      Headmaster, and...her parents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost everyone looked very sad, though only her parents were
      openly crying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A strange fear gripped her, as she suddenly remembered the last
      thing she'd been doing, her desperate duel with the murderer, her
      serious injuries. Not that the fear was <em class="calibre7">unreasonable</em> - it
      was actually a fairly universal one - but it was strange because
      despite having met a few ghosts, she still hadn't <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      adjusted her otherwise entirely scientific opinions on
      life-after-death, and had thus not anticipated having the
      opportunity to experience this particular fear <em class="calibre7">post hoc</em>,
      as it were. She slid quickly off the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay, everyone, I'm all-...ah, I'm still here…" she said,
      correcting herself when she remembered that ghosts <em class="calibre7">were</em> a
      possibility now, and thus 'all right' might not be wholly accurate.
      But no one seemed to notice at all. They were still looking in her
      <em class="calibre7">direction</em>, but they weren't looking <em class="calibre7">at</em> her.
      Feeling a chill, she slowly turned around to look at the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl lying there barely looked like her. True, she was only
      slightly more pale than her usual skin tone, but there was the
      lovely dress, her styled hair. Her hands were folded neatly atop a
      pristine copy of <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, a History</em> which lay on her
      stomach. She was perfectly still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione swayed and might have fallen, but strong hands were
      there to steady her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster?" she gasped, looking up into Dumbledore's face.
      "You can see me?" He gave her a sad, kind smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see <em class="calibre7">everything</em>. I'm a <em class="calibre7">powerful wizard</em>,
      haven't you read my Chocolate Frog card?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But...am I a ghost? No one else can see me…and you can
      <em class="calibre7">touch</em> me…" He hastily removed his hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You must've been mistaken, that would be <em class="calibre7">extremely</em>
      inappropriate, particularly at your funeral. Anyway, I have a duty
      here, so if you'll excuse me?" Hermione nodded mutely, extremely
      confused, as Dumbledore moved to a podium to one side of the table.
      The audience grew quiet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are here," he said, in sombre tones, "to say goodbye to
      Hermione Jean Granger. An otherwise gifted girl who, entirely due
      to her own mistakes - whether they occurred in this timeline or not
      - died without quite having reached the age of twelve. Which would
      no doubt be very disappointing to her, were she around to think
      about it...I mean, honestly, within a matter of months
      <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> here will have done better, even Ronald Weasley
      and Neville Longbottom, who are each blessed with unique character
      deficits we all sincerely hope they will work on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at him, then thought back to the Welcome Feast
      and wondered if Madam Pomfrey's memorial had just been an unusually
      lucid moment. But looking out at the audience, no one seemed to
      find anything he'd said unusual or surprising, not even insulting
      Ron and Neville, or mentioning <em class="calibre7">timelines</em>. The Weasley
      Twins had moved behind Professor Quirrell, and were beginning to
      carefully add pizza dough and cheese to the garlic already in the
      folds of his turban, which seemed both dreadfully inappropriate and
      unwise, but certainly not <em class="calibre7">impossible</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She did manage, sort of, to defeat a rat in magical combat,
      though that is only slightly more impressive than it sounds,
      considering. She could have just told me about it, but despite
      being Sorted into Ravenclaw, she was completely unable to figure
      out how to get into my office while I was taking a short nap, even
      though the password was 'password'. She didn't even
      <em class="calibre7">guess</em>," he added, shaking his head sadly. "Mr.
      <em class="calibre7">Potter</em> could've done better, and he's a muggle-raised
      <em class="calibre7">orphan</em>, and nearsighted to boot." Much of the audience
      nodded as if the Headmaster was dispensing great wisdom, Harry
      included.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Morag suddenly stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Miss McDonald's, tee-emm" asked Dumbledore politely,
      making finger-parentheses around the '™' as he pronounced it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Och, ah just wanted tae say," she began, and seemed to now be
      wearing a tam o' shanter and a kilt, despite being a girl, "e'en
      thoo sh' deid aft'r her first week and ah'm obviously goin' tae get
      <em class="calibre7">way</em> mair Hoose Points than her, ah ken fair certs ah
      certainly could've dun better e'en if she <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> kipped
      it." She sat down, to polite applause.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite right, Miss Macaroni, and well said. Even though I
      <em class="calibre7">did</em> already point out we'd all do better than her in the
      not-dying department, and I couldn't really follow whatever
      language you were speaking, I think we got the gist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, I mean...<em class="calibre7">what?</em> <em class="calibre7">What?</em> So, yes, the
      dress is <em class="calibre7">very</em> nice and I'm glad someone did something with
      my hair, but this is a <em class="calibre7">horrible</em> funeral..." objected
      Hermione, who had finally managed to find her voice. "There aren't
      even any quotes from famous authors, or soothing music on oboes,
      it's just <em class="calibre7">rude</em> and <em class="calibre7">bizarre</em>…" Dumbledore put a
      finger to his lips and shushed her, and Hannah stuck her tongue out
      in her direction, the Twins interrupting their surreptitious
      construction of a scale-model bistro around Quirrell's head long
      enough to follow suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In any case, I know we all have better things to do, so let's
      just get on with it." He withdrew a wand from his robes - black and
      smooth, with a white tip - indistinguishable from a standard stage
      magician's wand by virtue of being one. "Abracadabra!" The body on
      the table was consumed by intense white flames, which quickly
      vanished, leaving only the book. It fell to the table's surface
      with a soft thump. The Headmaster waited for a moment to see if
      anything else was going to happen, then shrugged. "Weird. All
      right, off with you then. Madam Pince will be along to collect the
      remains at some point, if she isn't too busy being unhelpful at
      Library patrons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone got up and dispersed, chatting amiably with each other.
      Hermione tried to follow, still objecting that this whole thing was
      in <em class="calibre7">terribly</em> poor taste, but she couldn't seem to move
      further than a few steps away from the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wondered if she might contrive to carve a wand out of one of
      the table legs, but lacking a wand in the first place or indeed
      tools of any kind somewhat stymied that line of thought. She was
      interrupted when Madam Pince did in fact walk down from the castle
      to the table, but after she picked up the book she swerved towards
      Hermione herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Books left out of the Library! Shame! Shame and disrespect!"
      She opened a book bag that looked a lot like Hermione's, dropped
      the book in, then grabbed the hem of Hermione's dress and began
      feeding it into the bag as well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, I'm not a book!" Hermione heard herself shout, rather
      unnecessarily, and wondered if Dumbledore's insanity was catching,
      even posthumously. But the librarian ignored her, and in a few
      moments had somehow stuffed Hermione herself entirely through the
      bag's opening, which had improbably widened enough to admit
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a horrible mess in the bag, which, from the inside,
      looked somewhat like a circus tent. Her notes were scattered
      everywhere, but they were effectively the size of large sheets of
      plywood, and just as difficult to lug around. And while her wand
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> here, it was similarly unwieldy, looking more like an
      unusually ornate utility pole than a delicate magical
      instrument.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione fanned out most of the pages across the bottom of the
      bag with great difficulty, but they were hard to sort when she
      couldn't properly look at more than one or two letters at a time.
      She used the enormous thread and thimble from her emergency sewing
      kit along with a ballpoint pen cap to make a pulley system, then
      laboriously tipped a spiral notebook up onto its edge and used the
      wire binding to climb up towards the top of the bag and look down.
      This was even more difficult than it sounded, because her dress had
      at some point become a pinafore and her petticoats were getting in
      the way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, top-right, then second two rows down, then fourth one up
      from the bottom," she muttered to herself, figuring out the proper
      order. She was only halfway done when the bag lurched and she
      slipped, beginning to tumble head-over-heels towards the rather
      unyielding book cover below.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, bother," she said. "<em class="calibre7">Arresto Momentum?</em>" Despite her
      hesitant intonation and the fact that her wand was some distance
      away, her fall downwards stopped instantly, though it immediately
      restarted, because of course the Earth's gravitational field was
      entirely functional inside the book bag, and momentum and
      acceleration were two entirely different things. "<em class="calibre7">Arresto
      Gravitate,</em>" she tried instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time her fall did not stop, but she stopped
      <em class="calibre7">accelerating</em>, and floated relatively gently down with the
      same speed she'd had when she spoke. She nodded approvingly that
      magic was finally starting to make sense even if nothing else did
      at the moment, though when she reached the book's cover, she simply
      bounced off of it and headed straight back up, lacking any gravity
      to otherwise hold her. Hermione saw a bright light above her and
      realized she was going to sail straight up out of the bag entirely
      - she looked down and waved goodbye to her notes, and they each
      wiggled a corner at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked around curiously. She seemed to be in the
      Hogwarts Library, but if so, someone had <em class="calibre7">radically</em>
      redecorated since the last time she was here. The architectural
      features, the stacks, the books - everything was in its proper
      place and configuration, but it was all white. <em class="calibre7">Bright</em>
      white. Madam Pince wasn't anywhere in sight - no one was, come to
      think of it - but perhaps she'd simply chased Professor Flitwick
      out after he had, for some reason, tried out his room-coloring
      charm again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" she called out, experimentally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no response, but there <em class="calibre7">was</em> a change. She
      could now hear the soft, comforting sound of pages being turned,
      about once every twenty seconds or so. For the average non-fiction
      book, it was a pace a bit rapid for nearly anyone who wasn't
      skimming, but the rhythm was as familiar to Hermione as her own
      heartbeat. She searched through the stacks, pausing occasionally to
      listen, until she located the source of the sound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A young woman - perhaps Nurse Wainscott's age - sat in an
      overstuffed chair in one of the many little alcoves of the Library.
      Her legs were tucked under her, and her clothes were modern muggle
      standard, except as white as everything else - she noted her own
      clothes were now her Hogwarts robes, though equally white. Hermione
      recognized the book she was reading at the same time as the woman
      herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman looked up, gave her a welcoming smile, and patted the
      arm of the similarly-overstuffed chair adjacent to her own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's all right, really," she said, quietly. "It's not what you
      think...so to speak." This should not have been reassuring, but
      somehow it was anyway, at least enough to break Hermione's
      hesitation. She moved to the empty chair, toed off her shoes - she
      noted there was a mirrored pair in front of the woman's chair - and
      climbed up, curling her legs under herself similarly, but sitting
      turned, to face the woman over the arms of the chairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure <em class="calibre7">what</em> I think, but...I'm not dead, then? I
      mean <em class="calibre7">physically</em> - obviously I'm not last-year's concept of
      dead, or I wouldn't be asking, <em class="calibre7">cogito ergo sum</em> and all
      that." The woman smiled again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither. If you'd been <em class="calibre7">discorporated</em>, I think you'd
      know it...whatever ghosts are, they don't seem to have the capacity
      for..." she paused and waved a hand airily, "...this sort of thing.
      Given that, the other follows - you must have a living brain with
      which to indulge in whimsy. At least for the moment." Hermione
      frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you sure it's not <em class="calibre7">you</em> indulging in the whimsy? You
      seem awfully pleased with yourself, whereas I'm just confused. Case
      in point, I thought for <em class="calibre7">sure</em> you'd been wiped out by that
      Memory Charm…" The young woman shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm pretty sure 'I' was." As Hermione's frown deepened, she
      continued, "And before you offer any objections about that
      contradicting the implications of what I just said, let me clarify
      - I am <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> as sure as <em class="calibre7">you</em> are that whatever
      constituted 'me' was in fact irrecoverably destroyed." It took
      Hermione a moment to parse this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. You're saying this is all coming from <em class="calibre7">me</em>, and
      you're not really 'her'? Goodness, that makes a <em class="calibre7">lot</em> more
      sense now...I didn't want to believe Dumbledore was <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      crazy…" She paused. "But if this is all a dream, is there a point?
      Beyond the usual, at any rate." Another shrug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd say it's an open question as to whether <em class="calibre7">she</em> was
      'really' her in the first place. You'd have to look into the
      question of continuity of consciousness across Transfiguration and
      other radical alterations to physical instantiation, and that's a
      thorny puzzle indeed, since from your reading, you already suspect
      magical society doesn't seem to understand consciousness any better
      than science does. As for your question...what's the point of
      <em class="calibre7">anything</em>? It's a little nihilistic, but I'm serious. You
      learn, you grow. Ostensibly so you can survive long enough to pass
      your genes along to some offspring and give them a decent chance at
      doing the same. In this particular case, along the way, brains have
      evolved ways of trying to right themselves when they've taken a
      particularly hard knock - physically or otherwise." Hermione
      considered this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, so I may be dying? And I have to choose whether to go on
      living or not? That's a bit clichéd...but anyway, you <em class="calibre7">know</em>
      my answer to that, so I guess we can just skip to the end?" The
      woman laughed, but it didn't sound kind. The light through the
      windows began to darken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such a <em class="calibre7">snippy</em> little witch...so be it. And asking
      <em class="calibre7">me</em> questions about the future, <em class="calibre7">little girl</em>?
      <em class="calibre7">I</em> already know how this <em class="calibre7">really</em> ends for you, and
      it's not happy." Her form shifted and shrunk, but rather than
      turning into a rat, she turned into a mirror of Hermione herself,
      though still in white casual clothing. "You don't get to
      <em class="calibre7">choose</em> anything...you've already been trapped by the
      person you're staring at."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't understand…do you mean the other me? Or...because it
      was really my fault Madam Pomfrey died?" The girl made a disgusted
      noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can be a bit thick sometimes, you know? But by all means,
      let's talk about <em class="calibre7">that</em>. You realized your actions had led
      to Madam Pomfrey's death. And because you felt <em class="calibre7">guilty</em>, you
      decided you could be as efficient as possible by punishing someone
      else <em class="calibre7">along</em> with yourself, and nearly getting yourself
      killed!" The girl turned and lifted her shirt halfway, showing a
      mass of bruises and cuts, half her ribcage sickeningly misshapen,
      one rib protruding here, a shard of wood piercing her there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared in horror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's...but...you said it wasn't what I thought..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You thought you might be dead, and you're not. Yet. But that
      does not <em class="calibre7">make everything okay</em>." There was blood trickling
      down the girl's neck from the back of her skull, spreading crimson
      across her white shirt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre7">know</em> I made mistakes, I'm <em class="calibre7">sorry</em>…" she
      protested, weakly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not <em class="calibre7">good enough!</em>" roared the girl. "Guilt is a
      useful emotion <em class="calibre7">only</em> when it helps you <em class="calibre7">avoid</em>
      making mistakes - not as motivation to recklessness! And casting a
      stupid Color-changing Charm wasn't even a mistake! You had no way
      of knowing what would happen...all the <em class="calibre7">real</em> mistakes came
      <em class="calibre7">after</em>!" Her face was pale, her cheeks hollow, her eyes
      dark, and Hermione found she was leaning as far away from her as
      she could while staying in the chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...I wasn't...the me from the future said…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Wah, wah</em>, I had a visitor from the <em class="calibre7">future</em> in
      my head, nothing's my fault," she mocked. Hermione slid out of the
      chair and took a couple of shaking steps away from her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you <em class="calibre7">want</em> from me?!" The girl's expression
      became calculating for a moment, then furious again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want you to be <em class="calibre7">good for something</em>. You have all
      these talents, but I haven't seen anything but a pretentious,
      selfish child, skipping about among whatever shiny things catch her
      attention for a moment. In all your plans for justice and
      transference, did you consider for a moment how your
      <em class="calibre7">parents</em> would've felt if you'd <em class="calibre7">died</em> in this act
      of <em class="calibre7">sheer idiocy?!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hadn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not even a little bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not even really at her 'funeral', though she'd been rather
      distracted by trying to figure out all the strange behaviour. A
      part of her tried to object that when she'd decided to trap the
      murderer on her own, she hadn't been thinking clearly, it was a
      unique situation, but a growing opposition in her shouted it down.
      She'd abused her marvelous intelligence and rationalized herself
      into nearly throwing her life away, and likely ruining her parents'
      as well. Her splendid memory helpfully summoned up the image of her
      parents in the front row, clutching each other, wracked with
      grief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione collapsed to the floor, sobbing, while the dark shape
      of the girl moved close. The windows had gone totally dark now,
      casting the Library in gloom, and her form was a smoky mass,
      outlined only by scattered highlights from glistening blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I lied, you know. Before?" it whispered, and the words
      <em class="calibre7">sounded cold</em>. Hermione looked up, uncomprehending. "You
      <em class="calibre7">are</em> dying, but oh so slowly...you're in a coma. You're
      never going to wake up, but you won't die, witches are long-lived,
      and I'll have an <em class="calibre7">eternity</em> to bury you in your failures.
      You're going to <em class="calibre7">suffer</em>, you'll wish <em class="calibre7">you</em> were in
      Azkaban..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's thoughts flailed about without direction. This wasn't
      her subconscious, she couldn't hate herself <em class="calibre7">this</em> much,
      could she? But what, then? The murderer had been using a Memory
      Charm, not just to remove, but to <em class="calibre7">add</em>...how did that even
      work? What if it added your own thought patterns to someone else's
      mind, and they <em class="calibre7">stayed there</em>? Or could it be the Cruciatus?
      There had been plenty of references to the Unforgivable Curse in
      her reading, but precious few details about how it worked. Maybe
      there was always permanent damage, maybe children were more
      susceptible, maybe every time it hit you it <em class="calibre7">broke</em>
      something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the thoughts were frantic, none pausing quite long enough to
      be seriously considered, just a whirl of terror as the dark figure
      drifted closer and Hermione scrabbled backwards on her elbows along
      the floor, trying to maintain the distance between them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please stop, <em class="calibre7">please</em>, I'm <em class="calibre7">sorry</em>,
      <em class="calibre7">pleasepleasepleaseplease-</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Stop</em>?" shrieked the girl incredulously. She threw back
      her head and cackled, then leaned in, her face centimetres from
      Hermione's. "<em class="calibre7">Round and round the carousel goes, the sights may
      change but everyone knows, it never stops it never slows, a stream
      of Fate that ever flows…</em>" Her mouth was a manic grin, and her
      eyes were clock-faces, tiny hands spinning against each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Time!</em>" Hermione shouted, desperately answering the
      implied riddle, but simply knowing the answer didn't magically fix
      anything - it never had. The girl gripped her by the shoulders, and
      where she touched a grey coldness appeared and spread. "No! I
      didn't do it, it wasn't <em class="calibre7">me</em>, it was <em class="calibre7">her</em>!" Hermione
      protested, finding it hard to speak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">She is you and you are she, and though you march on
      differently, all what has been will come to be, for threads may
      wander in the weave, but only
      tem-po-</em><em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">ra-</strong></em><em class="calibre7">ri-ly…"</em> she
      continued, in a maddening chirpy sing-song. The - whatever she was,
      <em class="calibre7">girl</em> wasn't a meaningful label anymore...<em class="calibre7">wraith</em>?
      - laughed maniacally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione found herself slowly standing up against her own
      volition. She could vaguely see the grey had spread across her
      entire body, but she couldn't turn her head to look - instead she
      moved to a shelf and withdrew a book. Her motions were natural, not
      mechanical, but she <em class="calibre7">couldn't change them</em>, all she could do
      was <em class="calibre7">watch</em>, as she sat down to read while the wraith
      capered about her in crazed delight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She couldn't even see the words, the Library was so dark now,
      but her body continued turning the pages, once every twenty
      seconds, and no matter how natural and comforting the rhythm had
      seemed before, it felt like a hammer nailing shut her coffin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione screamed soundlessly, trapped in her own body, then
      started running through incantations, though it was no more helpful
      than the scream - even if she'd somehow done wandless magic
      earlier, this felt somehow more <em class="calibre7">real</em> than that, and she
      wasn't even truly <em class="calibre7">speaking</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Alohomora, Finite Incantatem, Optundo Pulvinus…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wraith was moving about the Library, running her hands over
      everything. Grey spread in clouds from every touch, like milk into
      tea. Hermione didn't know <em class="calibre7">anything</em> to fix this, but magic
      didn't have to make sense, and she clung to the litany as if it
      were a life preserver.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...Wingardium Leviosa, Lumos, Colovaria….</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She started to <em class="calibre7">hear</em> the thoughts of her grey
      Time-locked self, banal internal comments on the book Hermione
      couldn't even see, but it didn't matter because she'd <em class="calibre7">already
      read it</em>, and when those thoughts grew loud enough she was sure
      she'd be buried beneath them and she'd be <em class="calibre7">lost</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...<em class="calibre7">Tenere Altum, Praereptor Classicum, Echo
      Moratus…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wraith was at the window, just enough in Hermione's view to
      reveal that her back was missing, she was <em class="calibre7">hollow</em> on the
      inside, literally papier-mâché, but glued with something dark and
      awful. Her arms were raised and the Library began to lighten
      somewhat as the grey spread out the windows, to the school grounds,
      even to the sky, but it wasn't a lightness that really
      <em class="calibre7">illuminated</em>, it was a lack of color, a lack of freedom, a
      lack of <em class="calibre7">meaning</em>. Hermione was being crushed by despair,
      she couldn't think anymore, but stubbornly continued, giving over
      to her subconscious to provide whatever it would.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...<em class="calibre7">Nati Sopo Álla...Iláp Iak Nuozíhcra...Aro Nit
      Onórehtfele...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wraith, in the midst of chaining the whole world in grey,
      suddenly whipped her head around, clock-eyes wide, and swooped
      towards Hermione, screeching in fury.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared up at a cloudless blue sky. She was outside? But
      she'd been in the castle...doing...something… Feeling something
      smooth and slightly cool under her hand, she bent her neck forward
      and saw she was wearing a simple but lovely blue silk dress, her
      slippered feet peeking from under the hem. Part of the curve of the
      Black Lake was visible-</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Wait, what?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sat up abruptly and leaped off the table. She was back at
      the funeral, as were all the attendants, but they were grey,
      ghostly. Hermione rechecked her own appearance, and she seemed to
      be fine - for the current working definition of 'fine', at any
      rate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She walked over to her parents, but didn't dare to touch them.
      It was all she could do to <em class="calibre7">look</em> at them. She leaned
      close.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," she whispered. "If I get the chance, I'll try
      to...do better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced back at her body on the table, clutching the
      book. This might be a dream, but it was <em class="calibre7">her</em> dream, and
      seemed to have an internal logic. Maybe if she left <em class="calibre7">now</em>,
      before the Headmaster 'cast' his 'spell'...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She tried it, and lo and behold, it worked. She hurried into the
      castle, which grew more and more white as she approached the
      Library. By the time she stepped through the doors, it was as
      bright as it had been, and she noted that again her dress had
      shifted into similarly white Hogwarts robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Again, Madam Pince was not here, but when Hermione checked
      behind her desk, her own book bag <em class="calibre7">was</em>. She reclaimed it,
      and withdrew her wand. It was stained with the murderer's blood,
      but there wasn't much she could do about that - you couldn't really
      point a wand at itself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't say anything this time, simply navigated the
      same path through the white Library to the pair of chairs, where
      the woman sat reading. She stopped several paces away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What...what <em class="calibre7">are</em> you?" Hermione asked, her voice
      unsteady. The woman didn't deign to respond, and Hermione tried
      again. "What kind of game is this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a game," said the woman after a moment, not bothering
      to look up. "Nor is it real - you're dreaming, even if you insist
      on behaving otherwise. But it's nevertheless how things
      <em class="calibre7">are</em>." There was, perhaps, a <em class="calibre7">hint</em> of
      dissatisfaction in her tone, but mostly it held apathy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's…not okay. I can't accept that." She shuddered. The woman
      shrugged indifferently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Universe doesn't change based on your acceptance, or lack
      thereof," she noted, dryly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No...it changes based on our <em class="calibre7">actions</em>." Now the woman
      looked up, her eyes normal - the precise shade of Hermione's - but
      skeptical. "There has to be <em class="calibre7">something</em> I can do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There doesn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're lying. I'll...I'll fight you anyway." The woman set her
      book down on the arm of her chair and shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You wouldn't be fighting me. You wouldn't even be fighting
      <em class="calibre7">yourself</em>. You'd be fighting the <em class="calibre7">Universe</em>. Not
      just futile, but...in the entirely wrong context of action. It
      would be like challenging the Pythagorean Theorem to a
      fistfight."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not <em class="calibre7">fair</em>," complained Hermione. The woman
      laughed, and it wasn't cruel, but was now faintly tinged with
      <em class="calibre7">despair</em>, which cut almost worse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Universe doesn't <em class="calibre7">really</em> care about fairness,
      though it sometimes likes to <em class="calibre7">pretend</em>." She paused, and her
      look became considering. "Suppose, for the sake of argument, there
      <em class="calibre7">were</em> something you could do. What would it look like?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked around the Library. Even against the slight
      glare of the ubiquitous white, she could see hints of grey,
      underneath everything, subtly chaining the world together, just
      waiting to bubble up and wash over the surface. Her expression
      became worried, but then softened - slowly - into wary
      thoughtfulness that mirrored the woman's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would look <em class="calibre7">different</em>." This seemed like a truism,
      but it also seemed to capture the essence of her commitment. She
      trusted the woman would know what she meant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an eternal moment of pause while they stared at each
      other, and Hermione felt like she was balancing on a needle's
      point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By all means, <em class="calibre7">try</em>." Hermione's sense of tension
      vanished. She slumped in relief, then looked around, frowning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another moment went by, less eternal, but more awkward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er." Hermione said. "How do I…" The woman sighed heavily and
      picked up the book to begin reading where she'd left off. She shook
      her head and spoke without lifting her eyes from the pages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're a Ravenclaw now...I suppose you'll have to <em class="calibre7">work it
      out</em>."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
