<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 24: Interlude - Quod Sequitur, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 18.1: Interlude - Quod Sequitur</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Blimey, we've already <em class="calibre7">told</em> you lot everything we know.
      For the <em class="calibre7">last time</em> - Hermione said she thought Madam
      Pomfrey had been murdered, and she thought she knew how to catch
      who did it, using Scabbers and a Supersensory Charm and 'Deeanay',
      but she wanted to test it first in an old classroom. Then a quill
      she'd given us started going on in her voice about if we were
      hearing this there was an emergency and we should go find the
      closest Professor and bring them back straight away. Naturally we
      tried to see what was going on in the classroom, but the door
      wouldn't budge, so we ran off looking, but everyone was already on
      their way to dinner so it took <em class="calibre7">ages</em>, and by the time we
      finally caught up to Professor McGonagall, <em class="calibre7">convinced</em> her,
      <em class="calibre7">and</em> got back, Dumbledore had already been there and it was
      all over!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor McGonagall gave us the third degree afterward, but
      she wouldn't say anything, and they won't let <em class="calibre7">anyone</em> see
      her in the hospital wing. But Nurse Wainscott is being
      <em class="calibre7">fierce</em> rather than <em class="calibre7">sad</em>, so she must be alive -
      whereas Scabbers is still missing, dead for all I know." Ron
      scowled irritably and took an unnecessarily vigorous bite of
      potatoes. Throughout his friend's recitation, Harry had nodded
      along in confirmation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If we'd only been faster somehow, we might've...I don't know,
      <em class="calibre7">helped</em>," added Harry, looking pained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're cracked, mate," opined Fred, cheerfully. George
      nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We couldn't get into the room, but we did get past the seal
      they put on that section of corridor," the other Twin added,
      lowering his voice conspiratorially. "Whatever happened there, it
      <em class="calibre7">broke Hogwarts</em> - have you any idea how <em class="calibre7">hard</em> that
      is? You're probably lucky you were nowhere near it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I heard a rumor from...someone...that she made some amazing
      secret Transfiguration discovery," gushed Lavender, whose mood had
      improved markedly just after arriving for dinner, when Professor
      McGonagall had unexpectedly pulled her aside, returned her wand,
      and gently admonished her to keep a closer eye on it. "And
      supposedly Professor McGonagall was still trying to decide if it
      was <em class="calibre7">safe</em>...she probably tried to use it to do some sort of
      forbidden Muggle <em class="calibre7">Deeanay</em> thing and it exploded in her
      face!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but that's <em class="calibre7">stupid</em>. What <em class="calibre7">really</em>
      happened?" demanded Kevin. Most of the other Ravenclaws at the
      first-year end of the table seemed similarly skeptical, though
      Morag appeared to be keeping an open mind about Hermione being a
      safety hazard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, it's <em class="calibre7">Lavender</em>," noted Padma, not exactly
      disagreeing. "But I could tell Roger Davies knew something, so I
      asked him point-blank," she continued, in hushed tones. "He denied
      it at first, but eventually he gave in and admitted that he'd
      managed to sneak past the wards they put up around where
      <em class="calibre7">it</em> happened. He said there were signs it was some kind of
      spell duel - his theory is that Hermione was right about Madam
      Pomfrey being murdered, but whoever <em class="calibre7">was</em> responsible found
      out she was on his trail and ambushed her before she could find
      him, and she <em class="calibre7">dueled</em> him. They haven't confined us to our
      dorms though, so either he got away completely - which he couldn't,
      because the castle was still sealed - or she <em class="calibre7">won</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Merlin <em class="calibre7">save</em> me," interjected Morag, "if ye want
      tae worship someone, go tae the chapel, Patil. I'll grant Granger
      might have some tricks, but it's <em class="calibre7">obvious</em> Dumbledore did
      the fighting, if there was any tae be done. Now can we just eat in
      <em class="calibre7">peace</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will <em class="calibre7">not</em>," hissed Pansy. "Don't you <em class="calibre7">see</em>?
      Pomfrey and Granger are both mudbloods - the <em class="calibre7">Chamber of
      Secrets</em> must have been opened!" Draco opened his mouth to
      deliver some withering insult, but thought of a better idea and
      said something else entirely, his voice low but pitched to
      carry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Hold your tongue</em>, Parkinson. <em class="calibre7">If</em> one suspected
      the Heir of Slytherin <em class="calibre7">had</em> come to Hogwarts this year - and
      I'm not saying I have any knowledge of such a thing - and
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> opened the Chamber of Secrets...but had <em class="calibre7">not</em>
      announced himself openly, tell me, what does the <em class="calibre7">true</em>
      student of Salazar's house do?" He paused a beat for her expression
      to become trapped between stupidity and affront, then continued
      before she could retort. "He pays attention, and he waits -
      <em class="calibre7">quietly -</em> to see if the Heir requests his
      <em class="calibre7">aid</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco let himself show a quietly satisfied smile as Pansy
      scowled and some of the others around him began to look at him
      appraisingly. He wished he <em class="calibre7">did</em> know who'd apparently
      <em class="calibre7">almost</em> blown up the increasingly annoying mudblood, but
      other people thinking it might have been him was nearly as good.
      Plus, while he doubted the Heir was actually here - for starters,
      he wasn't sure Pomfrey <em class="calibre7">had</em> been a mudblood, he couldn't
      see how the Board of Governors would have allowed her to win the
      position if she had been - if he (or she, he allowed, reluctantly)
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> here, Draco's little speech should have made it clear
      he'd be happy to join forces, and also wasn't a complete idiot,
      unlike most.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Theodore Nott said nothing. Malfoy <em class="calibre7">might</em> have a real
      hand, but it was probably just bluff. Whereas <em class="calibre7">he</em> now had a
      very good idea what he was going to get out of the Granger girl
      with his leverage. Not <em class="calibre7">just</em> whatever Transfiguration
      secret she'd apparently stumbled across - which had been the strong
      contender until now - but also the <em class="calibre7">truth</em> of what had
      happened today. Though no one he'd talked to was sure how badly
      she'd been injured...it'd be damnable luck if she didn't
      <em class="calibre7">live</em> long enough for him to even get started on
      blackmailing her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey was only half-following the conversation. She didn't have
      remotely the status required to participate in a discussion of
      <em class="calibre7">this</em> level anyway, even if she did have something to
      contribute, which she didn't. The girl was distracted with her own
      conundrum, or maybe it was just a curiosity? She'd had a
      disquieting feeling all day, as if she was meant to be doing
      something <em class="calibre7">really important</em> but she somehow couldn't quite
      remember what it was. Forgetfulness was not a foreign sensation to
      Tracey by any means - she was an indifferent student at best, and
      despite sharing a dorm with girls completing the same assignments,
      they often managed to slip her mind. It was the feeling of
      <em class="calibre7">importance</em> that seemed out of place.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While we are near the topic of Ms. Davis' study habits - or more
      properly her lack thereof - a brief digression seems in order. It
      is worthy of note that if she <em class="calibre7">had</em> actually opened her
      History of Magic textbook recently, the scrap of parchment found
      within - with a note scrawled in a slightly neater version of her
      own handwriting - would, while not exactly <em class="calibre7">explaining</em>
      everything, have at the least given her a bit more to go on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alas, she had not, and remained vaguely uneasy - bereft of any
      support from students outside her House due to its unsavory
      reputation, and unwilling to ask for assistance from within due to
      its uncomfortable realities.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, I think it's settled, then? As soon as they unseal
      the corridor, my group will move in and try to offer Mr. Filch a
      hand with the clean-up. If he actually agrees, remember to use
      spells only when absolutely necessary, and ask permission first,
      otherwise do it the way he wants. If he <em class="calibre7">doesn't</em> agree,
      we'll try to do what we can while he's not around - he's not likely
      to finish in less than a day on his own. Meanwhile, Parvati will
      check with her sister to find out if she knows what sort of things
      Hermione likes that might cheer her up - it's early in the year, so
      we might have to do a small collection to bulk up the Benevolence
      Fund first if it ends up being a book we need to owl-order.
      Neville's got plenty of experience by now, so after dinner his team
      will break into smaller groups and help search for Ron's rat, while
      as a backup Sally-Anne's group looks into maybe finding a
      replacement pet for him - anonymously, if you can manage it, but
      <em class="calibre7">coordinate</em> for Merlin's sake, we don't want him buried in
      animals. Sound good to everyone?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A chorus of smiling, enthusiastic nods and other affirmatives
      greeted Cedric's efficient summation, and the group of early-year
      Hufflepuffs set about eating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus," Minerva murmured, when she could no longer stand the
      deliberately casual dinner conversation that had occupied them
      since finally making it to the Great Hall, "what are you going to
      <em class="calibre7">say</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know I prefer not to plan these things too closely,
      Minerva," Dumbledore replied affably. "I think nothing tonight,
      though. It will depend somewhat on what we can glean from Miss
      Granger, when she - hopefully soon - regains consciousness, and
      Hogwarts does relish a good rumour. In any event, I'm sure
      something appropriate will come to mind when the moment is at
      hand." He smiled beatifically as he bit into a sausage. Not for the
      first - or, she feared, the last - time, Minerva reconsidered a
      great many of her life choices, and wondered if the weather in
      Australia was really as nice as everyone said...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the Headmaster's opposite side, Severus Snape said nothing,
      which in his own opinion, was developing into a troubling trend.
      After this latest development, he genuinely could not tell if he
      was simply being stupid, being successfully manipulated, slowly
      going mad, or, quite possibly, all three. It <em class="calibre7">had</em> been
      whispered that the Dark Lord had, on rare occasions, <em class="calibre7">toyed</em>
      with the sanity of those who had betrayed him, rather than
      destroying them outright…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Further down the table, Filius Flitwick absently cut his
      sausages into increasingly microscopic pieces, his eyes distant.
      After a fair amount of shameless kibitzing, Madam Wainscott had
      summarily ordered everyone out of the infirmary - otherwise he'd
      still be there, watching over one of his newest students. He'd
      somehow managed to fall short as her Head of House after less than
      a week of classes, but he was determined to remedy that. Now that
      it was <em class="calibre7">abundantly</em> apparent she had latent Gryffindor
      tendencies, he'd just have to make a point of checking in with her
      more regularly, having her run any plans and insights past him so
      he could point out any that didn't seem entirely sane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the far end, Quirinus Quirrell was nearly as quiet as the
      Charms and Potions Professors, excepting occasional stuttered
      apologies as he "nervously" spilled soup or knocked over a salt
      cellar, but these small touches were automatic now, leaving him
      alone with his thoughts. It was a pity the valuable distraction
      afforded by the hunt for the murderer had ended so soon - he hadn't
      learned nearly enough about the Stone's protections to dare an
      attempt yet. Equally disappointing that the murderer's identity
      hadn't been discovered until it was too late to make any use of him
      without risking exposure. But this new development <em class="calibre7">had</em>
      suggested some interesting options…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A large but rather gaunt and mistreated dog, hearing someone
      approach the door of the cell he was unhappily occupying, hurriedly
      shifted his form to that of a similarly gaunt and mistreated human.
      He hunched and shivered slightly under the renewed oppression of
      the Dementors' influence on the human aspect of his psyche.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the DMLE official, flanked by three grizzled Aurors, spoke
      to him, he had to ask the woman - who wore a guarded but awkward
      expression - to repeat herself twice. The repetition was necessary,
      for his weary and abused mind refused at first to accept what she
      was saying as something that was <em class="calibre7">conceivable</em>, let alone
      something that had <em class="calibre7">actually happened</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't <em class="calibre7">entirely</em> a happy thought - the vengeance he'd
      been sustaining himself on all these years had, after all,
      apparently been stolen from him - but nevertheless the notion of
      someone <em class="calibre7">else</em> getting Peter had not once formed while he'd
      suffered in this place. For a moment he considered asking to be
      left here until Pettigrew arrived, so he could "welcome" him, but
      he hadn't actually gone insane. Or not <em class="calibre7">quite</em>. He laughed,
      but there was no mirth in it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the hospital wing, Pauline Wainscott sat at a worktable,
      trying to concentrate on her non-emergency duties. It had been a
      rather tense few minutes - at one point she <em class="calibre7">had</em> actually
      been forced to curtly evict the various well-meaning but
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> Mediwitch-trained Professors who clearly didn't
      <em class="calibre7">really</em> think she was entirely up to snuff, despite
      Dumbledore's faith in her. But in the end, she'd been able to
      manage the worst of her patient's shocking injuries and stabilize
      her for the moment. Still, she'd need rest and replenishment before
      her system could withstand further healing magic without risking a
      permanent depletion of her body's capacity for recovery. There was
      little enough to be done now but wait, but she kept
      <em class="calibre7">imagining</em> she'd heard one of the separate alarm spells she
      had set to watch over the girl's heart rate, blood pressure, brain
      activity, and general life force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But no, there it was again - not one of her alarms, but a soft
      sound from the girl. She must be talking in her sleep, which was
      actually an encouraging sign. Pauline moved over to her bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...<em class="calibre7">nestly</em>...enigmatic...<em class="calibre7">rude</em>." The girl's
      eyes fluttered open and she startled, half sitting up, then winced
      at the pain the sharp movement had no doubt produced.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Easy, Miss Granger," the Healer said, easing her back down to
      the bed with gentle support on her shoulder and back. "You are
      safe, but you mustn't strain yourself." For a moment the girl
      looked relieved, but then her eyes narrowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Madam Wainscott. I trust you used sufficient...ah...<em class="calibre7">french
      toast and syrup</em> on my wounds?" she asked, casually. Pauline
      cautiously revoked her own earlier sense of relief.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er...no…" she corrected, gently. "Some Blood-Slowing Charms, a
      Bone-Setter, and a Critical Restoration Spell...you'll need some
      more care, and a great deal of food, but you should be out of
      <em class="calibre7">physical</em> danger…" Now the girl's face relaxed, and she let
      herself sink back into the pillow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good," she murmured. "Probably not dreaming. The <em class="calibre7">pain</em>
      was evidence, but still worth testing…" She closed her eyes, and
      for a moment Pauline thought she'd fallen back to sleep, but then
      her eyes opened again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh. Was there a rat by me, when I was found...or…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think so, the Professors were saying something about a
      <em class="calibre7">man</em> who'd been hexed, but they didn't really explain, just
      that you'd been near or in a magical combat. You haven't shown any
      signs of latent curses, though if you can describe what hit you, it
      could help a great deal?" Again, the girl looked relieved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So a Full Body-Bind <em class="calibre7">does</em> block an Animagus
      transformation...that would've made things a <em class="calibre7">lot</em> easier,
      had I known...should've just asked Professor McGonagall without
      context," she said with a deep frown, apparently to herself. Then
      she seemed to realize she'd been asked a question. "Oh...spells,
      yes, of course you'd need to know. Let's see, a Disarming Charm, a
      Cruciatus Curse, a Full Body-Bind, a…well, I suppose a
      <em class="calibre7">failed</em> Memory Charm, then some sort of <em class="calibre7">artillery</em>
      spell that goes 'Bombarda Maxima' - though it didn't hit me
      directly - and another Disarming Charm. Oh, and a Stunning Spell
      and a Killing Curse hit a wall within a metre of me, but as far as
      I've read they don't have proximity-based side-effects, not that
      what I've read on the Unforgivable Curses was terribly detailed…"
      Pauline covered her gaping mouth with one hand as she belatedly
      processed everything her patient had been afflicted with - besides
      the Bombardment Curse that explained <em class="calibre7">most</em> of her injuries,
      if not how she'd survived it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Merlin's Beard,</em>" she gasped, and bolted to the
      supplies cabinet. She pulled two bottles and quickly but carefully
      poured a splash from each into an empty flask, swirled it, then
      rushed back to the girl's bed and brought it to her lips, holding
      it carefully so she could drink. But she turned her face to the
      side, avoiding the remedy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't sleep yet, if that's what-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not a sleeping draught, just a muscle relaxant, and
      something to promote nerve healing - both herbological, not proper
      potions, but you <em class="calibre7">must</em> take them as soon as possible, if
      I'd known a Cruciatus was involved I'd have risked waking you
      sooner, it never occurred to me someone might be so vile as to cast
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> on a <em class="calibre7">child</em>...<em class="calibre7">please</em> drink it…" The
      girl's eyes widened as she recognized Pauline's urgency, and she
      turned back, allowing the Healer to tip the liquid into her mouth.
      She made a face at the bitter flavour, but swallowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," the first-year said, sounding genuinely contrite.
      "It's just, I have to speak to the Headmaster, that man I hexed is
      a fairly convincing liar, he's apparently decent at potions so he
      might have Veritaserum antidote, and I don't know what he's been
      <em class="calibre7">telling</em> them... How long was I out for?" The young woman
      blinked for a moment at this explanation, then glanced at her
      watch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Less than an hour. And the Headmaster <em class="calibre7">asked</em> to be
      notified immediately if you woke. But please, try to remain calm?
      Your system is very fragile right now - there are limits to how
      much stress the body can safely absorb, and Healing is no
      exception."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll try. I don't think I have the energy to do otherwise, to
      be honest." Lines of pain in the girl's face smoothed as the
      concoction began to blunt the after-effects of the Cruciatus, as
      well as her body's other insults. Pauline withdrew her wand from
      its dedicated pocket in her apron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even when she'd <em class="calibre7">finally</em> managed to produce the spell in
      Defence, Professor Harbuckle had complained that she wasn't doing
      it properly, since she didn't use a <em class="calibre7">memory</em>, but an
      <em class="calibre7">idea</em>, and it wasn't even - in the Professor's opinion - a
      <em class="calibre7">realistic</em> idea. But it was the only thing that had ever
      worked for her, and it <em class="calibre7">did</em> work, so Pauline firmly
      imagined the world as it <em class="calibre7">should</em> be, every person free of
      disease, of injury, of infirmity, of pain, a world of perfect
      health, convinced herself - despite all evidence - that it
      <em class="calibre7">would</em> happen someday, and <em class="calibre7">she</em> would see it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Expecto Patronum!</em>" A shining silver salamander burst
      from her wand, skittering across the air before her, and as usual,
      she couldn't help smiling at it. She hadn't tried to cast it
      since...since <em class="calibre7">it</em> happened, and under its soothing light,
      she now wished she'd been brave enough to try earlier. "Please
      inform Professor Dumbledore that Hermione Granger is awake and that
      he can talk to her...<em class="calibre7">briefly</em>." The salamander vanished in
      a puff of silver flame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd added the trailing admonition on impulse. It was all well
      and good to know that in <em class="calibre7">this</em> room of the castle, even the
      Headmaster could not override a Healer's instructions, but she
      imagined it would be quite another to try to order around <em class="calibre7">Albus
      Dumbledore</em> to his <em class="calibre7">face</em> - he hadn't been present with
      the staff she'd gathered the temerity to evict earlier. But she
      knew Madam Pomfrey had been able to do it, somehow, even with
      <em class="calibre7">him</em>...she'd just have to live up to her example, should
      the need arise. Pauline turned back to her patient, and saw that
      she was propping herself up on her elbows, her eyes shining.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While we're waiting, if you don't think it would be overly
      taxing for me just to watch and listen, I would like <em class="calibre7">very
      much</em> if you could explain the details of the spell you just
      cast?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really, you should just be resting. I wouldn't even want you to
      be talking to the Headmaster if he hadn't insisted it was a matter
      of school safety," Pauline explained patiently.
      <em class="calibre7">Ravenclaws,</em> she thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's just that," the girl persisted, "a spell to send messages
      seems like something <em class="calibre7">everyone</em> should be taught. And
      it...felt?...like it was a broad variant of a Cheering Charm, which
      would make it even more useful in, you know, <em class="calibre7">dire</em>
      situations…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, so <em class="calibre7">that</em> was the problem.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you've had a bad turn, and I can't imagine how
      frightening all this must've been for you, but really, you're
      <em class="calibre7">safe</em> now. Hogwarts is really very safe as a <em class="calibre7">rule</em>,
      nothing like this has happened in ages. It's best to trust the
      Professors to handle such things and just concentrate on your
      studies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Learning magic <em class="calibre7">is</em> part of my studies," the girl
      pointed out. "And while I'm sure you're right - I know logically
      it's wrong to extrapolate the rest of my time at Hogwarts based on
      one unlikely event - but <em class="calibre7">emotionally</em> I'd feel
      <em class="calibre7">much</em> better if I knew a way to directly call for help if,
      say, someone <em class="calibre7">was</em> trying to kill me. Again." Even in her
      apparent vehemence the first-year looked a bit uncertain, as if
      doubting the quality of her own argument, and Pauline soldiered
      on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't possibly...even if we skipped over it being a
      fifth-year spell, it took me ages to learn and I don't do it
      entirely right, and I'm <em class="calibre7">not a Professor</em>," insisted Madam
      Wainscott. "When you're well, you can ask Professor Quirrell. Now I
      <em class="calibre7">must</em> ask that you lie back and rest, you can't afford to
      get agitated right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not <em class="calibre7">agitated</em>, I'm just-" the girl paused and took
      a breath. "All right, maybe I <em class="calibre7">was</em> a bit agitated." She
      lowered herself to the pillow again, then frowned. "Wait. It's a
      Defence spell? I mean, Defence class is already a bit haphazard
      about what it includes, and effective communication <em class="calibre7">is</em> a
      good form of defence, but…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes. But sending messages with it is actually something
      the Headmaster showed me how to do when I came on here. Properly,
      it's only meant as a defence against Lethifolds and Dementors."
      Pauline shuddered, and the girl's frown deepened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've seen a reference to Lethifolds, and from context I
      inferred they were pretty nasty. But I thought Dementors were the
      guards at Azkaban, that it was a profession, like Auror, or
      Unspeakable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh heavens no," breathed Pauline. "That is, yes, they're tasked
      with guarding Azkaban, but they're about the Darkest creature we
      know of, including actual Dark wizards." Her patient lapsed into
      thoughtfulness. "Anyway, I should let you rest until the
      Headmaster-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What exactly do Dementors do...that makes such a Dark creature
      appropriate prison guards?" the girl interrupted, in a very quiet
      voice. Pauline remembered that the girl was muggleborn - she was
      probably quite wrongly but <em class="calibre7">understandably</em> worried about
      the man who'd cursed her, that he might somehow escape. Ordinarily
      describing such a thing to a young child wasn't something she'd
      even consider, let alone one who was already recovering from an
      ordeal. But in this unique case, if it might <em class="calibre7">comfort</em> her
      to know how perfect a prison Azkaban was…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She explained what Dementors were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Madam Wainscott's Patronus appeared at his shoulder and
      delivered its message, Albus excused himself from the Head Table
      and quickly made his way towards the hospital wing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dreadful tale that Mr. Pettigrew had told, under the
      influence of Veritaserum, was fantastical to say the least. That he
      could have been so misjudged by everyone, and so successfully
      framed Sirius Black for the Potters' betrayal seemed as shocking
      and unlikely as Sirius' apparent betrayal had been in the first
      place. But not <em class="calibre7">quite</em>. Not enough that - unlike then - he
      wouldn't <em class="calibre7">thoroughly</em> verify the facts of the matter. His
      account of the murder of Poppy Pomfrey <em class="calibre7">did</em> seem to match
      what little they knew, though. Pettigrew was already in the hands
      of the DMLE, Alastor had taken him personally, and was going to
      watch him unblinkingly - a half-literal expression, in the grizzled
      Auror's case - for a full day to ensure any hypothetical
      Veritaserum Antidote would have become ineffective, then dose him
      and question him <em class="calibre7">again</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alastor had immediately raised the possibility that the
      confession was false and part of some deeper plot to get Sirius
      Black released from Azkaban...there was nothing to say they
      couldn't <em class="calibre7">both</em> have been traitors, and one turned on the
      other when Voldemort fell, or that Voldemort was playing some
      <em class="calibre7">very</em> long game with the once-friends. But against the mere
      possibility an innocent man had spent a decade in Azkaban, Albus
      had lobbied heavily for Black to be taken into temporary protective
      custody <em class="calibre7">outside</em> the prison as a possible witness. Guarded
      at all times by a minimum of three veteran Aurors, of course, just
      in case. Nevertheless, Albus had already begun to marinate in a new
      mix of guilt and regret. Things had been so hectic right after
      Tom's 'miscalculation'...in some ways worse, as Death Eaters lashed
      out without leadership or aim. He'd <em class="calibre7">known</em> that Bartemius
      was cutting corners, sometimes forgoing trials altogether. And on
      some level, he hadn't <em class="calibre7">wanted</em> to hear Sirius explain why
      he'd betrayed their cause, his best friend, and his own godson.
      He'd never understood the lust for power, for <em class="calibre7">dominance</em>,
      that other Death Eaters had espoused, and to hear it from the lips
      of someone he'd trusted - again - wasn't something he was eager to
      experience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But mostly, he'd simply been <em class="calibre7">busy</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just as now, when he'd been so busy with his delicate plans to
      try to contain Voldemort - to end Tom's sad story with the minimum
      of suffering to all involved - that he'd miscalculated, presumed
      Poppy's death was Riddle showing his hand, and moved to trap him in
      the castle with the eleven-year-old boy who was apparently the sole
      being with any hope of destroying him. Even while knowing that the
      Prophecy <em class="calibre7">constrained</em> Time but did not <em class="calibre7">choose</em>
      which of them would fall to the other. But despite his careful
      scrutiny, an Animagus transformation had been sufficient to evade
      his notice, and another student had nearly died because of his own
      blindness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, if Peter's confessions <em class="calibre7">were</em> accurate, they would
      shortly have Tom's wand, and would have deprived him of his
      strongest tool and most secret ally in a single stroke. A stroke
      delivered not by himself, or Severus, or even a certain first-year
      Gryffindor, but rather a first-year Ravenclaw muggleborn. To say it
      was unexpected was putting it mildly. And yet...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Severus had, only yesterday, asked him if he knew anything of
      note about Hermione Granger. Which, aside from Minerva giving her
      closer Transfiguration supervision, he had not. But the Potions
      Master had said nothing further, which suggested he was suspicious
      about something but had not yet become certain enough to say. He
      <em class="calibre7">had</em> asked similar questions about a few other students and
      half the staff besides. As loyal as he judged Severus now to be, he
      was Slytherin to his bones, and the man would not risk tarnishing
      his self-image by sharing unfounded supposition that might turn out
      to be baseless. Of course beyond that, on a much deeper level, he
      had once been taught a harsh lesson indeed about sharing incomplete
      information.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When their prisoner had given his unwilling account of his
      encounter with Miss Granger, Alastor had predictably noted certain
      inconsistencies in the story, the failed Memory Charm, the weak
      Body-Bind - though the rest was plausible, if barely, as the
      actions of a particularly precocious first-year - and suggested
      immediately performing an impractical number of strenuous
      examinations of the girl that might've been life-threatening even
      if she <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em> recovering from serious injuries. Under
      normal circumstances, Severus ought to have made some dryly cutting
      remarks - his natural skepticism and scorn was an excellent check
      to Alastor's increasingly rampant paranoia - but he had again, said
      nothing. Perhaps it was worth pressing him on the matter, but he'd
      decide after speaking to the girl and forming his own opinions -
      and he had forbid any interrogations until after that point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard paused a few spans from the hospital wing doors
      as he came upon a third-year Ravenclaw loitering in the
      corridor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Davies," he greeted him, curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor," returned the boy, in a respectful but cautious
      tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand that Madam Wainscott has cleared the hospital
      wing, but if you have an actual medical need, you needn't wait
      outside…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no, sir. I just wanted to be here for Hermione, if she...I
      mean...I feel a little responsible." Albus raised an eyebrow, and
      the boy wilted a bit. "I...after Madam Pomfrey, I was just
      <em class="calibre7">sure</em> she wouldn't make a mistake like that, and some of
      the lower-years talked about alternative explanations. She just
      took it very seriously, she was really investigating, and I
      encouraged her. Is it true, Madam Pomfrey <em class="calibre7">was</em> murdered,
      and Hermione caught him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What truly happened is still a matter of some debate, though I
      commend you - your loyalty and faith in Madam Pomfrey's
      professionalism is well-founded. As for your responsibility in the
      matter...did you know your Housemate was planning to confront a
      suspected murderer herself?" The boy shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Merlin, no, I'd have told her to go to Professor Flitwick or
      yourself straight away." Albus nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And are you taking Divination this year?" Davies blinked at the
      non-sequitur, then again shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir. Arithmancy, Ancient Runes and Care of Magical
      Creatures."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well. If you <em class="calibre7">had</em> somehow been capable of reliably
      predicting <em class="calibre7">today's</em> events in advance, I dare say I would
      be justified in making you a co-Professor along with Professor
      Trelawney. As it is, I think you deserve no blame." The boy nodded,
      though he seemed unsatisfied with this absolution. "You still have
      a few minutes to get some dinner. I will ask Madam Wainscott to see
      that you are informed when Miss Granger is fit to receive
      visitors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Headmaster," he said after a moment's hesitation,
      then headed off at a brisk walk. Albus had nearly reached the
      hospital wing entrance when he was brought up short again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">-serious?!</em>" The high-pitched shout had been audible
      even through the closed doors to the hospital wing. Raising an
      eyebrow, he entered and quietly closed the door behind him, adding
      a Sound-proofing Spell to them with a gesture. For the moment, he
      was unnoticed by the other occupants of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The only patient was a small girl, struggling to support her
      sitting position with one hand as the other was occupied in
      violently shaking a finger at Madam Wainscott. The girl's face was
      red and her untamed brown hair danced in a mad cloud around her
      head, while the Healer frantically tried to calm her patient. A
      two-chime pattern was insistently repeating above the girl's bed,
      but it was largely drowned out by her continued shouting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you even <em class="calibre7">realize</em> how <em class="calibre7">insane</em> that is? There
      are dozens of laws, <em class="calibre7">hundreds</em>, that carry
      <em class="calibre7">mandatory</em> sentences in Azkaban, a lot not even for violent
      crimes - not that that would be an excuse anyway! For short
      sentences, you're just making them <em class="calibre7">worse people</em> when they
      get out than when they went in! For long ones, it's basically
      execution by <em class="calibre7">extended torture</em>. And then if <em class="calibre7">that</em>
      somehow isn't <em class="calibre7">bad enough</em>, if someone <em class="calibre7">justifiably</em>
      escapes, you can whistle up one of these <em class="calibre7">things</em> to <em class="calibre7">EAT
      their SOUL</em> - whatever that <em class="calibre7">actually</em> means?! Here I'd
      thought <em class="calibre7">normal</em> prisons were shamefully mismanaged, but
      apparently magic <em class="calibre7">is</em> better at everything, and you've
      managed to leapfrog them straight to <em class="calibre7">concentration camps</em>
      guarded by <em class="calibre7">literal demons!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Please,</em> Miss Granger, you <em class="calibre7">must</em> calm down,
      you'll do yourself <em class="calibre7">permanent harm</em>," begged Madam
      Wainscott, trying with only partial success to press the girl back
      down to the bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Calm <em class="calibre7">down?</em>" Her expression was disbelieving. "The
      Ministry is <em class="calibre7">evil</em>. <em class="calibre7">Wizards</em> are <em class="calibre7">evil.</em> You
      can't just <em class="calibre7">give</em> people to things like that and
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> be evil, no matter what they've done, no matter
      <em class="calibre7">how</em> you rationalize it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are not entirely wrong, Miss Granger," Albus said, mildly.
      The room fell silent as the remark settled heavily over everyone
      present. For her part, the Healer looked both aghast and relieved.
      The girl, meanwhile, was undergoing what he'd come to think of as
      Standard Reaction Number Two to meeting him in person for the first
      time, which involved a fair amount of stammering and avoiding eye
      contact. To her credit, her indignation was rapidly spurring her
      past that stage, though she seemed somewhat at a loss as to how to
      continue, opening and closing her mouth without managing to produce
      any words. "Pauline?" he asked, turning to the Healer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I-I'm sorry Headmaster, she asked about Dementors and I thought
      it would <em class="calibre7">help</em>, knowing how secure Azkaban was, that her
      attacker would never escape…" The girl on the bed made a brief
      choking noise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would seem not, though it was an understandable notion under
      the circumstances. I presume by your resort to, ah, <em class="calibre7">physical
      persuasion</em> that employing additional spells or potions upon
      Miss Granger is contraindicated?" The girl had let herself fall
      back into the bed, but the Healer's hand was still on her shoulder
      - she hastily withdrew it while nodding emphatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Headmaster, emergency use only...though she was nearly to
      the point that a Slumber Charm would've been worth the risk," she
      confirmed, casting a stern glance at her patient. It was lost upon
      the girl, however, who had closed her eyes and seemed to be
      deliberately taking a series of deep breaths, which had in turn
      quieted the monitoring charms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will make an effort not to tire Miss Granger needlessly, but
      I <em class="calibre7">do</em> need to speak with her. Privately, I'm afraid." At
      the Healer's conflicted expression, he raised a palm in a
      conciliatory gesture. "I don't intend to move her, nor to ask you
      to leave your patient...I will use an ambient privacy charm, but
      make specific exclusions for your monitoring spells. Is that
      acceptable?" Pauline nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose. But please, Headmaster, sir - I've given her what
      aid I can for the moment, but the assaults upon her included a
      Cruciatus Curse among other things - <em class="calibre7">do</em> try to make it
      short and avoid upsetting her...further...?" Albus' eyebrows rose,
      but he nodded. The young woman moved to a worktable and made a
      pretense of useful labor while she kept the bed constantly in her
      peripheral vision. Albus moved to the girl's bed and sat upon a
      stool beside it, conjured with a lazy wave of his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He withdrew a wand of terrible power - the wizard made it a rule
      to remind himself of that every time he touched it - and turned it
      gently in a horizontal circle. The quiet sounds of the room around
      the bed faded away, and the room itself was obscured by a grey
      haze, until they seemed to be resting inside an opaque and
      sound-proof egg, which they were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">By this time the girl had finished her deep-breathing exercises
      and opened her eyes, though after a quick glance around, she seemed
      to be considering resuming them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have nothing to fear from me, Miss Granger," he noted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Headmaster. It's just...I'm having some
      anxiety-management issues, here." Her eyes seemed to be more calm,
      though still betraying a tumult of emotions beneath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I quite understand, Miss Granger. And please, the honorific is
      not necessary - Professor is sufficient, and preferred, if
      referring to me so would not cause you discomfort." She gave him a
      queer look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright. Professor. I...ugh. False urgency, right. Putting
      aside Azkaban, <em class="calibre7">for the moment</em>. The man who was found
      paralyzed near me - assuming he was a short, stocky, pointy-nosed,
      rat Animagus - admitted to me that he murdered Madam Pomfrey and
      made it look like an accident. I don't know what he's been telling
      you, but-" Albus raised a palm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The individual in question, one Peter Pettigrew, is indeed in
      custody, and has under Veritaserum divulged the details of that
      despicable act...among others. Your efforts in exposing him, while
      perhaps ill-advised, are much appreciated. Though there do remain a
      considerable number of questions about the affair…if you would care
      to relate events from your perspective, I hope it will clear
      matters up significantly?" The girl, who had visibly relaxed when
      he'd confirmed Pettigrew's status, now tensed and broke eye
      contact, rather too quickly for it to be simple reticence or
      shyness. Interesting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry I didn't take it up with a Professor, sir. I know
      what I did was reckless and stupid. I did ask Professor Quirrell
      for hypothetical tactical advice, and I actually <em class="calibre7">tried</em> to
      talk to you about it at one point, but I didn't know how to get
      into your office, and then I talked myself out of it. It was
      just...the 'Seer's Hex' thing...I was sure no one would
      <em class="calibre7">believe</em> me without actual evidence - or worse, send me to
      St. Mungo's - and I didn't have any until I confronted him." Albus
      nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For future reference, any Professor can arrange a meeting with
      me, with sufficient reason, though typically students would do so
      through their Head of House. But in the interests of avoiding any
      similar missed opportunities for collaboration, the password to my
      office this year is 'chocolate frog'. I trust that you will keep
      this to yourself, and not abuse the privilege?" He gave her an
      amused smile as she nodded mutely. "As for your concerns about
      staff giving credence to your suspicions...I agree, it was an
      unfortunate situation. But I would urge you to make every effort to
      give us the benefit of the doubt, in the future?" The Ravenclaw
      looked conflicted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...I would <em class="calibre7">like</em> to, Professor, but...you
      <em class="calibre7">knew</em>, didn't you? That it was murder? And you sealed him
      in with us. And then there's Azkaban, and house elves, for that
      matter. I'd been assuming everything in magical Britain was pretty
      much the same, deep down, only plus magic, but now it seems like
      there are some pretty serious ethical differences. And you
      <em class="calibre7">admitted</em> it was evil. I'm…" she swallowed heavily. Albus
      carefully considered his words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wizards are not angels, Miss Granger, any more than muggles
      are. There is the capacity for great evil in us, as well as great
      good, and among any sufficiently large number of people you will
      find examples of both, with most falling somewhere between. I will
      note that things are not always as they appear, though in the case
      of Azkaban, I cannot truly claim otherwise. But do not mistake the
      <em class="calibre7">presence</em> of evil for <em class="calibre7">surrender</em> to it. Many
      people, myself included, actively oppose the Ministry's use of
      Dementors, but we do not yet outnumber the influence of those who
      support it. Regrettably, the average wizard is more concerned with
      what happens to those he feels to be like himself than...convicted
      criminals hundreds of miles away, who in his mind, knew what they
      risked when they broke the law. Can you truly say things are
      different among muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think the United Kingdom outlawed capital punishment twenty
      years ago, and we haven't tortured people for rather longer than
      that," the girl noted, pointedly. Albus nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so we are quite behind the times, shamefully in this case.
      Perhaps you are right, that as a whole, wizards might make
      decisions that - given your upbringing - you would not expect, or
      support. But with rare exception, individually, Hogwarts'
      Professors are intelligent people of high character. If you
      perceive an injustice, or a wrong - and share it - we <em class="calibre7">will</em>
      give your concerns a fair hearing." The young girl's frown did not
      lighten, but she nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And locking a murderer in a boarding school with a bunch of
      children?" she asked. Albus had been hoping in his initial
      concession that she would not have noticed he hadn't addressed that
      part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Though I believe I had good reasons to act as I did, at this
      point I am regrettably not at liberty to explain them fully to you
      without ostensibly putting a great many people in even worse
      jeopardy. I will say that the protections for Hogwarts students are
      quite numerous, and many are exceedingly subtle - it was not as
      great a risk as you might imagine. But nevertheless, there
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> danger, and I deeply regret both the necessity, and
      the suffering it brought you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's...I appreciate that, or I'm trying to, but
      that's...really not good enough?" The girl was trying to maintain a
      stern front, but the rise in her voice's pitch betrayed her
      uncertainty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger, I fear you are experiencing a severe instance of
      what I believe muggles call 'culture shock'. The flexibility and
      power of magic supports a society in which certain levels of risk,
      that muggles might reasonably consider completely unacceptable, are
      simply everyday encounters. As I have said, it is not perfect by
      any means. But it is true to itself. Your impulse may be to
      withdraw from it, to give up your studies and live as a muggle. Or
      depending on what your parents learn of these events, they may
      attempt to withdraw you and prohibit you from returning. It has
      happened before. But magical Britain <em class="calibre7">needs</em> more people
      such as yourself, who can look at a criminal, or a house elf, and
      still see a feeling being, worthy of basic decency. People who can
      drag us by our broomsticks towards the fast-approaching third
      millennium. People who, even when they feel there is no authority
      they may turn to, will <em class="calibre7">still</em> try to do what is right, even
      at great personal risk." He could see from her face that she wasn't
      comfortable either with the implied compliments or the parallel
      he'd drawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just wanted to go to <em class="calibre7">school</em>," she said, after a
      moment. "It's all I've ever wanted. The past few years, I almost
      always had already read what the teachers were teaching, but there
      were still always things I could learn, and I can't help reading
      ahead, so I can <em class="calibre7">understand</em>. And magic...it's a whole new
      world, <em class="calibre7">literally</em>. But all these...<em class="calibre7">important</em>
      things...I just...I don't know if I can handle it." The Headmaster
      smiled kindly and patted her hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"An obvious mark of quality is <em class="calibre7">rising to the occasion</em>,
      when necessary. But there is no rush, young lady! You likely have a
      full century of life ahead of you, at least, and while you show
      great promise, you do not yet bear responsibility for the world's
      troubles. Ample time to learn, and later, when you've gained wisdom
      to match your knowledge, to <em class="calibre7">act</em>." This little bit of
      inspiration didn't seem to land well, as the girl's expression took
      on a sickly cast, and it seemed like she might begin to cry. But
      before he could begin to correct the matter, she shook her head
      sharply, then met his gaze evenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...have to tell you some things. Not <em class="calibre7">just</em> the
      murderer, but a lot more than that. I don't know if it's the right
      thing to do, but I <em class="calibre7">can't</em> say nothing." She hesitated and
      her eyes took on a haunted cast that no young child's should, but
      that he'd nevertheless seen more times than he cared to
      remember.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Help will always be given at Hogwarts, to those who ask for
      it'," he noted gently, quoting one of the Founders. The girl
      nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hope so. There...might not be as much time as you think. But
      it would be silly not to at least ask first." She paused, gathering
      her thoughts. "Suppose I - <em class="calibre7">believed</em> - that Time had been
      changed, somehow, and I was...will be?...partially responsible.
      Would it be safe...or advisable, for me to tell you the details? If
      it lends any credence, I'm clear of the Conditional Obscuration on
      the relevant laws." Albus' eyebrows climbed skyward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Given <em class="calibre7">that</em> preface...I think you must, Miss Granger.
      If I decide it is knowledge I Ought Not to Know, I'm confident I
      can restore my own ignorance, and yours - if necessary, and if you
      consented, of course." The first-year stared at him for a moment,
      several emotions dueling for dominance on her face, though surprise
      was only faintly represented.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose if <em class="calibre7">any</em> Obliviation is ethically acceptable,
      a self-imposed one would qualify. But honestly, wizards seem far
      more free with that than they really ought to be." She shook her
      head and took a deep breath. "All right. I suppose it all started -
      in objective chronology if not my own episodic sort - during my
      first trip to Diagon Alley, with a book..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: I live! Apologies for the epic-length posting hiatus, you
      know how these things are. I do have one short chapter ready after
      this one, and then we'll <em class="calibre7">see</em> if I can get back on a
      regular posting schedule, but no guarantees other than yes, I
      <em class="calibre7">will</em> continue the story to its natural end, however long
      that takes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thanks to /u/HermioneGPEV for pointing out a confusing offset
      qualifier in Ch. 18!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
