<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 4 - Revision, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Revision</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><span>Chapter 4 - Revision</span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The days until Hermione could leave for Hogwarts seemed to drag
      at first. She was extremely eager to study her actual school books,
      but Professor McGonagall had been quite explicit that practising
      spellcasting or potion making at home was 'quite out of the
      question'. Since that was the obvious next step after memorizing
      them, she knew that <em class="calibre7">not</em> being able to practice would drive
      her round the bend, so she decided to save them until the last
      possible minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, she tore her way (metaphorically!) through the other
      books she'd picked up. After all, there was a lot of background
      information most of the other students would already know just by
      virtue of having grown up in wizarding homes. She figured it might
      well make learning actual magic easier to have that down first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd read <em class="calibre7">Modern Magical History</em>, <em class="calibre7">Great Wizarding
      Events of the Twentieth Century</em>, <em class="calibre7">The Rise and Fall of the
      Dark Arts</em>, and of course <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts, A History</em>. Then
      she'd read them again. She tried a third time, but she'd basically
      memorized them by that point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was the first week.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a couple of days of making notes on what she'd read and
      trying to draw some new conclusions, she convinced her mother to
      take her back to Diagon Alley for more books to fill in obvious
      gaps in her knowledge. She'd also suggested that there were a few
      things she'd read about that her mother really ought to buy right
      away and keep around the house - potions and pre-enchanted items
      that muggles could still <em class="calibre7">use</em>, even if they couldn't
      <em class="calibre7">make</em> them, for emergency first-aid and such. She
      <em class="calibre7">was</em> a little uncertain as to what interactions there might
      be - if say, heaven-forbid, her parents had a need for a
      blood-replenishing potion, it might end up confusing doctors after
      going to the hospital, and if they couldn't <em class="calibre7">tell</em> them what
      they'd taken… Hermione decided until she could confirm with someone
      knowledgeable about both magic and muggle medicine - if such a
      person existed - that such things wouldn't do more harm than good,
      she'd only recommend ostensibly 'naturopathic' remedies, like
      Essence of Dittany and the like.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione ended up buying <em class="calibre7">An Appraisal of Magical Education
      in Europe</em>, <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts Houses: Heaven-Sent or Hardly Worth
      It?</em>, <em class="calibre7">Dragon Species of Great Britain and Ireland</em>, a
      copy of the <em class="calibre7">Legislative Guide to the Proper Use of Magic</em>,
      <em class="calibre7">Practical Household Magic</em> and the <em class="calibre7">Standard Book of
      Spells, Grade 2</em>. She'd selected the latter two to make sure
      she would have enough materials to work beyond the standard
      curriculum if she needed to, but firmly placed them with the other
      school books she was holding off on reading. The rest she read, and
      re-read, and took notes on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was the second and third week.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now there were only two weeks left, and though Hermione did
      understand on some level how smart she was, and took innocent joy
      in sharing things she'd learned with other people, she'd somehow
      never developed overconfidence when it came to <em class="calibre7">studying</em>.
      So with 'so little time' remaining, she was starting to get a bit
      nervous and finally dove into the <em class="calibre7">actual</em> books her
      Hogwarts classes had assigned, reading each of them at
      <em class="calibre7">least</em> three times, to be sure she'd fully memorized every
      word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was the fourth week.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Having memorized her copy of <em class="calibre7">Magical Theory</em>, Hermione
      was now quite confident she could control when she tried to do
      magic and when she didn't. More specifically, that it would be safe
      to practice spell incantations and wand motions with no actual
      intent to cast a spell without either running afoul of the Decree
      for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery, <em class="calibre7">o</em>r
      producing Accidental Magic. But she didn't want to risk associating
      a mental habit of <em class="calibre7">not</em> intending to cast a spell along with
      the full motions and wording, so she decided to practice each
      element separately instead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In that vein, she broke down the wand movements from all the
      spells in the <em class="calibre7">Standard</em> books (Grade 1 and 2) as well as
      <em class="calibre7">Practical Household Magic</em>, and found that there were a
      great many common elements - swishes, flicks, circles (widdershins
      and deosil) and so on - that, if mastered, would make it much
      easier to quickly learn <em class="calibre7">any</em> spell, so she drew up a
      practice schedule. She also continued on with her juggling and
      sleight-of-hand exercises, and made a point of practicing the wand
      motions with either hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The incantations were another matter. The vast majority of them
      <em class="calibre7">seemed</em> to be based on Classical Latin, though the
      pronunciation often differed from the accepted norms. Given how
      long magical history seemed to stretch back, Hermione surmised that
      the magical pronunciation might actually be closer to the
      <em class="calibre7">genuine</em> original usage, since for muggles Latin was a
      'dead language' and the accepted pronunciations had been
      reconstructed largely through theory, whereas wizards had
      apparently been using them continuously for at <em class="calibre7">least</em>
      twenty-five hundred years. Either that, or there was some magical
      significance to <em class="calibre7">changes</em> in normal pronunciation, but if
      that was the case, it wasn't discussed in Waffling's introductory
      text. Hermione made a note to look into it when she had a chance,
      but for the moment, she sensibly practiced the incantations
      according to her Hogwarts books and <em class="calibre7">not</em> the ones from her
      local library.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, the date marked on the ticket Professor McGonagall had
      given her came. Hermione made sure her parents got her to Kings
      Cross Station by 8 AM, a good three hours before the Hogwarts
      Express was scheduled to depart. Partially this was just due to her
      naturally responsible nature, but part of it was due to a loophole
      (though Hermione refused to use that term, even in her head, and
      firmly considered it an 'interesting fact') she had discovered in
      the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery.
      Namely that the Hogwarts Express, being wholly owned and operated
      by the school, was <em class="calibre7">legally</em> considered part of Hogwarts
      itself, and thus the Decree did not apply to spells cast while
      <em class="calibre7">on the train</em>. It didn't even have to be in motion. And
      since the train (and platform nine and three-quarters) was used
      solely for the purpose of transporting Hogwarts students, it
      arrived at the station quite early in the morning and simply sat
      there until the posted departure time. Taken together, that meant
      an enterprising student might theoretically get in nearly
      <em class="calibre7">twelve hours</em> (counting travel time) of spellcasting
      practice, at least ninety minutes of which were likely to be
      largely uninterrupted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After Professor McGonagall's thorough explanation, Hermione had
      accepted that the law was primarily meant to avoid students
      endangering themselves or others while trained professionals were
      not conveniently nearby to undo the results of any mishaps. So in
      that sense, since school faculty usually arrived at Hogwarts well
      before classes began and thus were typically not present on the
      Express, casting spells on the train might be considered violating
      the <em class="calibre7">spirit</em> of the Decree, if not the letter. Hermione
      wrestled with this ethical dilemma for some time, but eventually
      decided that since she intended to be very responsible and only
      practice the simplest and most harmless spells, and even then,
      there <em class="calibre7">would</em> be upper-year Prefects on the train who could
      be summoned in an emergency, that it would be irresponsible of her
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> to take advantage of the very limited window of
      opportunity she'd found to practice before arriving at the school,
      and would thus try not to feel too bad about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After arriving at King's Cross Station, her parents helped her
      get her trunks (she'd ended up needing two, to fit all the extra
      books - magical and muggle - she'd wanted to bring) onto a cart and
      accompanied her to to the vicinity of platform 10.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said Hermione's father. "I guess this is where we get
      off." Her mother was smiling but clearly trying to hold back tears.
      Hermione had never really been away from home for any length of
      time, and now she was going to leave for nearly <em class="calibre7">four
      months</em>, until Christmas break. Hermione suddenly regretted
      asking to be dropped off early so she could get extra practice. The
      train ride itself was over eight hours long, she could've spent the
      extra three hours having breakfast with her parents, watching mum
      and dad trade sections of the Times, double-checking to make sure
      she hadn't left any books she'd regret not having.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could come onto the platform with me, I'm sure it would be
      all right," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, no...I'll just make a scene," insisted her mother. "I don't
      want to give the...other parents a worse impression of us than…"
      she trailed off without finishing the thought. The three stood in
      awkward silence for a moment. They all knew - Hermione from her
      extensive reading, the Grangers from various anecdotes in So, Your
      Daughter's a Witch - that the typical magical attitude towards
      muggles could be described as, at best, 'condescendingly tolerant'.
      The young girl suddenly hugged her parents fiercely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I love you so much...I miss you already! I'll try to make you
      proud," she said, her face half-buried between their shoulders as
      they crouched down to hug her properly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of <em class="calibre7">course</em> you will, sweetheart. You're destined for
      great things," whispered her father, huskily, his voice slightly
      muffled by her stubbornly bushy hair. Hermione felt a twinge of
      alarm, and deja vu. The word '<em class="calibre7">destiny</em>' floated through her
      mind, but couldn't find anything to attach to and faded away,
      taking the alarm with it. They held each other for as long as they
      could ignore the disruption they were causing in traffic between
      the platforms, and even a few moments beyond, but the Granger
      responsibility streak ran deep, and they broke apart.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I snuck extra brushes and paste into your trunk, enough for an
      entire term...for all we know they're still using swine bristles
      and ground oyster shells," said Mr. Granger, trying to lighten the
      mood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I read once of an old toothpaste recipe that included 'dragon's
      blood'," Mrs. Granger added, smiling tremulously. Hermione laughed
      nervously with both of them, and did not mention that her book on
      dragons had in fact noted the creatures' blood had many uses,
      including cleaning properties, and was mostly non-toxic, so the
      anecdote was more plausible than it sounded. She took a deep
      breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. I'm ready. Help me get it going?" Hermione asked. The
      cart was tricky to start moving, so loaded down as it was. Her
      parents took hold of the cart's handle on either side of their
      daughter and pushed until she could guide it alone. Hermione made
      sure it was aimed properly at the barrier between platforms nine
      and ten, then turned to wave over her shoulder at them as she
      pushed until there was a sudden shimmer, then her parents were
      gone, and she was looking back at wrought-iron archway labeled
      'Platform 9 ¾'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sunk back into one of the seats of her compartment,
      relieved. She'd tested a few of the simple spells from
      <em class="calibre7">Practical Household Magic</em>, and they'd all worked perfectly
      on her first try (the upholstery in the compartment was now quite
      fresh, the windows were spotless and the compartment door opened
      and closed smoothly with nary a sound). In fact, they were
      <em class="calibre7">easy</em>. Which she supposed was the point...if household
      spells were difficult, people would just do those things the normal
      way, wouldn't they?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As it happened, she'd ended up casting her first spell almost
      immediately after arriving. The platform was quite deserted - if
      there were to be any porters for the train, they hadn't arrived
      yet, and Hermione was left to puzzle out how to get her two heavy
      trunks up the stairs into a car on her own. A quick mental review
      of the contents of <em class="calibre7">Practical Household Magic</em> suggested a
      Floating Charm, which was recommended for use when you had weighty
      things to carry but didn't want to pay the fixed attention to them
      a Levitation Charm would require. She'd stepped onto the stairs
      into the car first - so she was technically <em class="calibre7">on the train</em>,
      as her narrow interpretation of the law required - ran through the
      incantation and gesture a few times in her mind, and only then went
      ahead and tried it on her trunks. Sure enough, their weight had
      been essentially removed, so she could just tug them behind her as
      if they were half-filled helium balloons, albeit ones that still
      retained the <em class="calibre7">inertia</em> of fully-loaded trunks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the excitement from a properly cast spell was, well...almost
      addictive. Her memory of producing sparks from her wand - after
      trying several that did nothing - that first time in Ollivanders
      felt curiously matter-of-fact, almost dull, as if she'd done it (or
      seen it done) innumerable times. But <em class="calibre7">this</em>...this was
      something else, entirely. Sometimes, when she'd been reading a
      particularly advanced book or working out some tricky bit of math
      and suddenly understood a concept or realized what the solution
      was, there was this wonderful <em class="calibre7">feeling</em>, mostly in her head
      (her mother had said it was probably 'endorphins'). But casting
      spells, it was like that, only in her head, <em class="calibre7">and</em> her arm,
      and sometimes her whole body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Concerned that if she let herself become distracted by
      continuing to test spells, she'd lose track of time, Hermione
      elected to change into her school robes now to get it out of the
      way. She didn't have a particular aversion to changing in front of
      other girls if she ended up sharing the compartment, but there was
      nothing to say the compartments would be segregated by gender, so
      there might well be boys, too. While Hogwarts <em class="calibre7">was</em> a
      boarding school, so she assumed the other students would be more
      mature than her previous classmates had been, she hadn't checked
      the size of the train bathrooms yet, so she decided better to be
      safe than sorry. Once she'd finished and packed away her muggle
      clothing, she went back to trying out spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, Hermione began to notice a lot more people though
      the outside and inside windows. Her stomach fluttered a bit as she
      imagined meeting other students. She hoped she'd read enough to
      make a good impression. Maybe things here would be different, since
      witches and wizards were so rare, everyone would have something in
      common and make friends naturally and there wouldn't be any
      <em class="calibre7">issues</em>…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door to the compartment slid open (still noiselessly) and a
      girl entered. She was Hermione's age, and also already wearing her
      Hogwarts robes, though she was quite pretty, with dazzling red
      hair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are any of these seats taken?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not yet, feel free," responded Hermione cheerfully. "I'm
      Hermione Granger," she added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mary Sue Bottomwater, nice to meet you," the girl said, with
      almost saccharine sweetness. Hermione's reading had prepared her
      for the sometimes bizarre wizard surnames, but this seemed like a
      <em class="calibre7">particularly</em> silly example, and she had to make a
      deliberate effort not to react to it. "Are you a first-year too?"
      the girl asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, yes. I'm a bit nervous, to be honest, but excited. You?"
      Mary Sue shrugged at Hermione's question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wouldn't say nervous, but I'm <em class="calibre7">very</em> excited, I can't
      wait. Usually there's an exam first thing. I suppose you've already
      finished memorizing all your school books too?" she asked casually.
      Hermione's smile faltered. There would be an exam as soon as they
      got there? She hadn't read anything about that…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have, but I didn't know there'd be an exam so soon...I should
      probably do some revision on the way just to be sure," she
      answered, uncertainly. Mary Sue's eyes widened, and her smile
      broadened in what Hermione utterly failed to interpret as a
      'devilish' way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, good!" exclaimed the girl. "We can quiz each other! Me
      first. What was the trigger for the 1486 Goblin Rebellion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, um...it's believed to be a reaction to Yardley Platt, the
      notorious Dark Wizard who made a hobby of horrifically murdering
      goblins. Let's see, what's the second ingredient in a Forgetfulness
      Potion?" Mary Sue seemed surprised Hermione had answered so
      quickly, but came back quickly herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Two Valerian sprigs," she answered, correctly. "What syllables
      are stressed in the Levitation Charm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'Gar' and 'o'," responded Hermione. "What's the Second
      Principle of Transfiguration?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The more similarities two things share to begin with, the less
      concentration it takes to change one to the other. How can you tell
      a Devil's Snare from a Flitterbloom?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girls went back and forth in this fashion for several
      minutes, Hermione getting more and more enthusiastic while Mary Sue
      seemed to become increasingly frustrated and suspicious. Finally,
      the redhead threw her hands up in exasperation and her voice
      dropped an octave and lost all pretense at cheerfulness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alright, let's come clean. Obviously you're not a first year -
      if Charlie told you about my brilliant prank idea even though he
      <em class="calibre7">swore</em> he wouldn't, I am going to give him a hex he won't
      soon forget! Unless you <em class="calibre7">are</em> Charlie?" The girl narrowed
      her eyes suspiciously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" asked Hermione, quite confused by the sudden turn the
      conversation had taken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, come off it. Tell me who you really are, or I'll see for
      myself," Mary Sue said warningly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I already told you, my name's Hermione Granger. What are you
      talking about? What prank?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have it your way, then," the other girl said grimly, drawing
      her wand - yellowish, with dark brown rings up the shaft. She
      pointed it at Hermione, made a complicated half-twist with a
      figure-eight loop and said, "<em class="calibre7">Homorphus!</em>". Hermione gaped
      at her and drew her own wand, though she couldn't bring a defensive
      spell to mind before Mary Sue finished her own. But nothing seemed
      to happen, other than Mary Sue's expression becoming as confused as
      Hermione's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know it's <em class="calibre7">technically</em> legal to cast spells on the
      Hogwarts Express, but I'm fairly certain students casting spells
      <em class="calibre7">at</em> each other is at the very least frowned upon if not
      expressly forbidden," said Hermione sternly. "Besides, I don't even
      know what that spell was supposed to <em class="calibre7">do</em>, and I've read all
      the way through Grade 2...who are <em class="calibre7">you</em>, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So...you <em class="calibre7">are</em> a first year? And you've
      <em class="calibre7">actually</em> memorized all your school books?" the girl asked,
      ignoring Hermione's question for the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, of course!" said Hermione, a bit testily. "Is that...not
      something Hogwarts students normally do?" she asked, somewhat
      hesitantly. She'd been so relieved when the girl had first
      mentioned that… Mary Sue meanwhile sat heavily onto one of the
      compartments' seats and laughed, shaking her head ruefully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Serves me right, I guess," she said, seemingly to herself.
      "Charlie will wet himself when he hears, though I suppose he's
      actually in Romania by now." She waved her wand over her black
      Hogwarts robes, which shimmered and became a rather larger set of
      open brown leather robes, over another blousy set in shades of
      black and grey. The girl herself shook slightly and <em class="calibre7">grew</em>
      to fill out the clothes - she looked several years older now -
      while her face became somewhat less pretty and her hair turned, for
      some reason, purple. She tucked her wand into a sleeve.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Name's actually Tonks," she said to Hermione. "Graduated last
      year, and thought I'd have a spot of fun since I happened to have a
      free day, and get in some infiltration practice. Some first-years
      show up thinking they already know everything and it's good to
      deflate them a bit, whereas others can use a good scare to break
      the tension, and maybe a few kindly tips for any who are
      <em class="calibre7">already</em> scared to death and need a little lift. When you
      claimed you'd memorized your books, I thought you were just copying
      me and were the first sort, but I guess you actually <em class="calibre7">do</em>
      know everything." She grinned. Hermione just stared at her for a
      moment. If this was the sort of thing Hogwarts <em class="calibre7">graduates</em>
      thought was a good idea, her hopes about the maturity level of
      boarding school students seemed rather less likely to be fulfilled.
      She put her own wand away, with mild reluctance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know <em class="calibre7">everything</em>...I've only had five weeks or
      so to read," she said, a bit defensively. "But you're saying...to
      scare first-years, you Transfigured yourself, and were pretending
      to have memorized all your books." Hermione wasn't sure how to feel
      about that. It seemed a bit far to go for a prank, and besides
      that, it didn't sound particularly complimentary towards Hermione
      herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a trick for that, actually. And hey," said Tonks,
      noticing the downturn in Hermione's mood, "don't sweat it. It's
      nothing to be ashamed of...imagine all the free time you'll have,
      not needing to study!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose…" said Hermione, though she found it difficult to
      imagine <em class="calibre7">not</em> studying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, you could always help <em class="calibre7">other</em> people study. That's
      actually a good tip for someone like you, come to think of it. You
      know about House points and all that?" Hermione nodded. "Well, the
      better Professors will give you just as many - if not more - points
      for helping students in <em class="calibre7">other</em> houses as they do for
      actually answering questions in class yourself. Just a thought,"
      she finished, offhandedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Were you in Hufflepuff?" asked Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep. That obvious?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, your suggestion <em class="calibre7">did</em> seem very Hufflepuff, from
      what I've read. Though I've also read that the supposed House
      virtues aren't quite so fundamental as they're made out to be. I've
      been very curious what House I'll be Sorted into, you see." Tonks
      laughed again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not the most Puffy of 'Puffs, I'll admit. I can't help
      looking for ways to get around rules, it's a sickness. But you're
      right, after graduation the Houses don't mean all that much, and
      even in school they're not <em class="calibre7">that</em> definitive. The virtues
      are definitely <em class="calibre7">there</em>, though, whether because people were
      Sorted because they already had 'em or because they know the
      reputation and think they need to <em class="calibre7">live up</em> to them, like-"
      she adopted a gruff masculine tone, and her chin briefly grew to
      heroic proportions, "'Well, I'm in Gryffindor, so I'd better fling
      myself into danger like a complete prat! Charge!'" Hermione
      laughed, despite herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not <em class="calibre7">all</em> like that...some of 'em are even more
      devoted pranksters than I am, and it <em class="calibre7">does</em> take true
      bravery to try to get away with anything while McGonagall is
      hovering over your House... But there can be cleverness in
      Hufflepuff, and helpfulness in Gryffindor, new Ravenclaws are
      <em class="calibre7">constantly</em> hatching devious plans to get into the
      Restricted Section, and hell, I've even seen bravery from
      Slytherins on occasion." She paused in thought for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think what it comes down to is, you ought to be in a house
      that'll help you make the <em class="calibre7">most</em> out of Hogwarts. Either
      surround you with people you can use as good examples for something
      you <em class="calibre7">want</em> to bring out in yourself, or at least who you'll
      be able to just <em class="calibre7">get along with</em> for seven years." Hermione
      nodded. From that perspective, Slytherin didn't sound much better,
      but Gryffindor seemed a little less attractive than it had - she
      had a dim view of pranking from her years in school thus far,
      however Tonks might rationalize it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But...it's up to the Sorting Hat, right?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, little secret...the Hat can be negotiated with. You can't
      <em class="calibre7">fool</em> it, as far as I know, but you can maybe
      <em class="calibre7">convince</em> it, if you have good reasons. My mum had enough
      trouble after marrying my dad...I didn't want to get in the middle
      of any pointless rivalries, so I asked the Hat to keep me out of
      Slytherin <em class="calibre7">or</em> Gryffindor, and Merlin knows I only study in
      extreme emergencies - like trying to meet the Auror qualifications
      - so Ravenclaw was out. I made the best of it...Ravens may get
      better marks, but a 'Puff will <em class="calibre7">never</em> refuse to help if you
      ask, and I'll take a study group of four patient 'Puffs over one
      reluctant Raven any day. Not that you couldn't be a
      <em class="calibre7">helpful</em> Raven if you wanted. In the end, <em class="calibre7">you</em>
      decide who you want to be, not which dorm some moldy headgear says
      you have to sleep in." Tonks grinned, and Hermione nodded
      thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway, I'm going to give this one up as a bad job and dash.
      Can I ask you to keep this whole thing under your hat? Not my
      finest hour, and all..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose, if that's what you want. You actually <em class="calibre7">have</em>
      been very helpful, and it was good to have someone to quiz against
      without feeling intimidated. Plus, if you've already graduated,
      it's not as if you <em class="calibre7">technically</em> broke any school rules, I
      suppose..." Tonks cackled in delight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks, I'll owe you one. Be careful of that word, though…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">'Technically</em>'. Take it from me...once you start down
      the dark path of rule-dodgery, forever will it dominate your
      destiny…" she paraphrased, grinning. "Fortunately for me, Moody
      thinks it can make for better Aurors." Tonks winked, and
      Disapparated, and Hermione was left alone again with only an
      inexplicable foreboding for company.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't long after that other students - <em class="calibre7">current</em>
      students, this time - started joining Hermione in the compartment.
      All first years, as older students didn't seem to want to sit with
      first-years, nor did many first-years apparently have the courage
      to try to join a compartment with older children. Hermione found
      herself sharing a compartment with two twin sisters named Padma and
      Parvati, and a shy blond girl named Hannah.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A woman with cart came by early on selling sweets, and they'd
      each bought a couple, the others explaining the unfamiliar products
      to Hermione. While they snacked, they engaged in innocuous small
      talk which Hermione nevertheless found interesting, as much of it
      involved nuances of magical society that she hadn't yet picked up
      from her reading.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if Tonks hadn't meant it maliciously, the experience of her
      prank had made Hermione accept the premise that her study habits
      <em class="calibre7">might</em> be considered intimidating by some people, so rather
      than being entirely forthcoming, she'd decided to just wait and see
      what other people said. After several hours of chit-chat, it
      somehow hadn't come up, so she decided to try dropping it in
      herself, casually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, have any of you read much of your school books yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A little, just to see" said Parvati, at the same time Padma
      said, "Some." They looked at each other, and Padma shrugged. "I got
      caught up in the Potions book, it's interesting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought I ought to wait until a Professor said what to read,"
      said Hannah quietly. All three girls gave her quizzical looks.
      "Well, you know, some of our books were printed an awfully long
      time ago...what if the Professors give out corrections? I'd have
      ended up learning something <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's...actually quite a good point," said Hermione, sounding
      surprised. The concept had never even occurred to her - she was
      used to getting fairly new textbooks from her school - but thinking
      about some of the publication dates she'd seen, she had to admit it
      was worth keeping in mind. Even under this mild praise, Hannah
      seemed to blossom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do already know some herbology, though, my mum's quite good
      at it," she offered, smiling. "We've a garden at home, and she
      sells sometimes to the shops in Diagon Alley. What do your folks
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mum writes a recipes column for the Daily Prophet," said
      Parvati, "and dad is a curse-breaker for Gringotts," finished
      Padma. They looked to Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er, my parents are both dentists." Hannah nodded at this, while
      the twins looked confused. "People muggles go to when their teeth
      hurt, to fix them, or to help keep them clean," Hermione
      elaborated. They began to consider this apparently foreign concept,
      and Hermione noticed Padma was staring openly at her mouth.
      "There's a different sort that <em class="calibre7">straighten</em> people's teeth,"
      she added with mild chagrin, lowering her face a bit and closing
      her lips to hide her front teeth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was an awkward silence for a moment, which was broken by a
      knock on the compartment door. Hermione leapt to her feet to open
      it, eager for a distraction. There was a round-faced boy outside,
      his cheeks a little wet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me, I've lost my toad...I just wondered if any of you
      had seen it?" Padma and Hanna wrinkled their noses, though Parvati
      looked sympathetic. They all shook their heads, however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Parvati...what's <em class="calibre7">your</em> name?" Parvati asked
      gently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, Neville. Neville Longbottom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When did you see it last?" asked Hermione. She'd wondered about
      that bit of the Letter that mentioned bringing animals, and had
      assumed it was like a witch's familiar. But while owls apparently
      shared a unique affinity with witches and wizards, displaying
      unusual (by muggle standards) intelligence and an apparently
      magical ability to navigate, Hermione hadn't read anything that
      suggested they (or cats, or toads) established any supernatural
      <em class="calibre7">connection</em> with the wizard that owned them. This seemed to
      be more evidence of that, otherwise presumably Neville could've
      used it to help find his pet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About an hour ago. I'd lost him earlier in getting settled on
      the train, but my gran found him for me," he said glumly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How'd she do that?" asked Padma.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She used a Summoning Charm. But I don't know how to do anything
      yet, I only just got my wand." Hermione had seen references to the
      Summoning Charm in her reading, but the spell itself wasn't in any
      of her actual spellbooks. She supposed that meant it wasn't
      considered a Practical Household Charm, which was odd, as it seemed
      likely to be quite useful...maybe it was taught to everyone at
      Hogwarts, but later on than second year, which didn't bode well for
      trying to work it out themselves even if Neville <em class="calibre7">did</em>
      remember the incantation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, there must be plenty of older students on the train,"
      Hermione said reasonably, "Since this is the last compartment,
      we'll just go back through in the other direction until we can find
      one who knows the spell." The boy nodded, looking pathetically
      grateful. She waved to the other girls and set off down the hallway
      with Neville in tow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The first compartment she opened held a pair of boys, with messy
      and red hair respectively. The redhead was brandishing his wand,
      which made Hermione think it was at least worth asking, though she
      guessed they were also first-years, based on their size.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me, do either of you know how to do a Summoning Charm?
      Neville's lost his toad," explained Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, no," said the redhead. "Think it goes 'achio' or something,
      mum does it all the time at home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, thanks. Sorry to interrupt. Were you about to
      practice a spell?" she asked with some enthusiasm, trying to be
      polite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah…" He cleared his throat elaborately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sunshine, daisies, butter mellow; Turn this stupid, fat rat
      yellow," he intoned, waving his wand imprecisely at the apparently
      sleeping - and unwell, if the condition of his fur was any
      indication - rat on his lap. Nothing happened, which did not
      surprise Hermione at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't get taught that spell by a girl named Mary Sue by
      any chance, did you?" she asked tentatively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" asked the redhead. "No. My brother, George. Probably
      wrong on purpose, he and Fred think they're Merlin reborn when it
      comes to pranking," he said, a bit glumly. Hermione narrowed her
      eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are they in Gryffindor?" she asked. The boy nodded. Hermione
      sniffed sharply, then turned to Neville and said, "Sorry, just one
      second." She drew her wand, pointed it at the sleeping rat and
      said, "<em class="calibre7">Colovaria!</em>" The rat's fur obligingly turned bright
      yellow, and all the boys' mouths dropped open. "Just act perfectly
      normal," Hermione suggested, "when your brother sees him, he'll be
      trying to figure out how you got his silly made-up spell to
      actually work." She nodded in satisfaction, then turned to continue
      down the hallway. Neville shrugged helplessly, then followed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who was <em class="calibre7">that?</em>", she heard the other boy ask from
      behind her as she walked, followed by the voice of the redhead, who
      said, "No clue, mate, but she's bloody brilliant - George'll go
      mental!" Hermione felt a <em class="calibre7">bit</em> guilty that what she'd done
      and suggested <em class="calibre7">itself</em> might count as a prank, but decided
      that there must be some pranking equivalent to the legal theory of
      justifiable self-defence, and let the warm glow of the offhanded
      compliment propel her onwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In short order, they managed to find a fifth year who had no
      problem (after Neville informed him the toad was named Trevor)
      Summoning him, to Neville's sincere gratitude. Hermione left
      Neville in his compartment with an admonition to keep a closer eye
      on Trevor, then made her way back towards her own compartment.
      Along the way, she had to press herself firmly against one wall to
      avoid being trampled by a trio of boys who pushed past without even
      acknowledging her, one of them whinging about probably having been
      poisoned by a diseased yellow rat. She decided this was probably
      not a coincidence, so she poked her head into the redhead's
      compartment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened?" she asked, observing their sweets had been
      scattered around a bit. "I was nearly bowled over by some boys
      running down the corridor - they, uh, seem to think your rat may be
      diseased." The two boys rolled back into their seats with
      laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bloody perfect," said the redhead, wiping away a tear and
      lifting the rat up by his tail to examine him. "Seems like he's all
      right - just sleeping again, if you can believe it. Anyway, what
      was all that about, sounded like Malfoy'd already met you?" he
      asked the messy-haired boy. The other boy described a brief but
      unpleasant interaction with someone Hermione rather <em class="calibre7">wished</em>
      Tonks'd had the opportunity to 'deflate'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, my dad's told me about that lot. Came running back after
      You-Know-Who vanished, claimed they were bewitched, but my dad
      thinks it's bol-" he glanced at Hermione, "er, rubbish. Anyway," he
      said, turning to Hermione, "that's <em class="calibre7">two</em> I owe you, if
      Malfoy's mate thinks Scabbers' given him Yellow Fever or some such.
      I'm Ron Weasley, this here's Harry Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione Granger," she offered. "And you're welcome." She
      paused for a moment, then asked Harry, "<em class="calibre7">The</em> Harry Potter?"
      He nodded, a bit uncomfortably. "Goodness...you're in several of
      the books I got for extra reading, but it never occurred to me
      you'd be here at all, much less in my year. I really ought to have
      done the math."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm...in books?" he asked, somewhat taken aback.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but it's all very complimentary," Hermione said, trying to
      reassure him. She couldn't imagine what <em class="calibre7">that</em> felt like,
      and thought it a bit odd as well that he seemed not to
      <em class="calibre7">know</em> about it, since he'd had ten or so years to learn to
      cope. But then the books really said nothing at all about what had
      happened to the baby <em class="calibre7">after</em> somehow impossibly saving
      Britain - and arguably the world - by virtue of being mysteriously
      invincible. Clearly there was more to his story, but she couldn't
      think of a casual way to ask, and there wasn't really time anyway.
      "Anyway, you two ought to change, the train's slowing so we must be
      quite close. I'll see you at the Sorting," she said, then left to
      return to her own compartment, closing the door behind her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A/N: So, I had this brilliant plan wherein Hermione would meet
      seventh-year Tonks, and she'd become her mentor through first year
      and there'd be hi-jinx aplenty. Halfway through writing, I did my
      belated due diligence and discovered Tonks graduated the year
      <em class="calibre7">before</em> Hermione started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Awkward, but I'll work that out. In any case, I decided to leave
      it in as just a cameo, with a little tweaking. Someday (possibly
      when I get an editor) I'll learn how to throw away something I've
      written, but for now, you'll have to pry my little fantasies out of
      my cold, dead hard drive.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
