<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation - Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation Chapter 9: Interlude - Dubius, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Hermione Granger and the Perfectly Reasonable Explanation"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s9" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6.1: Interlude - Dubius</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's Note: Sorry for the long hiatus, I had some cause to
      question my motives for writing, and it took a great deal of
      thought before I felt I could continue. I'd written this interlude
      previously, but I hope to come back with additional chapters in the
      next month or two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Disclaimer time - I've read (and love) <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter and the
      Methods of Rationality</em>; it's actually what gave me the kick to
      start my own fic. While there's bound to be some overlap - since
      both contain muggle science and a 'genuinely smart' Hermione - I'm
      deliberately making some different choices about how magic 'works',
      and keeping almost all the other characters essentially canon, in
      the hopes of steering things away from just being a rehash of the
      same themes. I've no desire to re-write HPMOR...I seriously doubt I
      could improve upon it. (N.B. - Be cautious in taking that as a
      recommendation to read it - while it's very well written and
      terribly funny at times, it also goes to some shockingly dark
      places.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, there's an issue with Hermione using 'genuine'
      intelligence while no one else changes, though - quite often the
      answer to questions along the lines of, "Why did character A not
      simply X or Y or Z, were they just dumb?" is that if they
      <em class="calibre7">had</em>, the story would've been much shorter (or, from
      another perspective, much harder to write well). For the purposes
      of this fic, I'm just going to play those things where they lie.
      Even if some canon issues end up resolved 'early', there will be
      logical repercussions and consequences that I hope will keep things
      interesting. That said, I've no illusions that I'm writing a
      masterpiece, here - I'm having fun so far, hopefully you are
      too!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Interlude - Dubius</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore waited calmly as all but one of the Professors
      and staff filed out of his office. Once they'd gone, Professor
      McGonagall took a seat in front of his desk - the meeting that had
      just concluded had not been long, and no one had been seated. Only
      then did he settle into his own chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Minerva. I presume, by your request to remain, that you've
      objections you wanted to voice in private?" the Headmaster asked,
      mildly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A murder, at Hogwarts. A <em class="calibre7">murder</em>, at
      <em class="calibre7">Hogwarts</em>," she repeated, with emphasis. The woman paused,
      as if unsure how to continue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which implies a murderer, of course. And while it is not clear
      how much time the culprit had before Madam Pomfrey was discovered,
      I nevertheless sealed Hogwarts against exit - possibly trapping a
      murderer inside with us...and our students," he prompted,
      calmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, you understand my consternation, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do." He waited. While he would not typically begrudge an
      explanation to one who had a right to it, the demands on his time
      were...considerable. It was a fact of his existence that he could
      avoid a great many uncomfortable conversations with a subtle
      reminder of the trust he had <em class="calibre7">earned</em>, by virtue of being
      both talented and right, on many occasions. It was pure reputation,
      and he was not above using it...sometimes, that alone was enough to
      forestall objections and allow him to get on with the actual
      work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet, you've done it anyway. Nor have you summoned Aurors.
      And you're going to allow everyone to believe this was
      Poppy's...<em class="calibre7">negligence</em>," she persisted. Apparently, this was
      not to be one of those times.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know what is being guarded here, and what the consequences
      could be if it fell into the wrong hands. If this incident is not
      related - and for the moment it is unclear how it would be - every
      additional witch or wizard admitted would be another potential
      avenue for exploitation...even Aurors. Whereas I have every faith
      in the staff's ability to locate and subdue Madam Pomfrey's
      assailant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about the <em class="calibre7">students</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The lengths to which the murderer went to make it appear a
      tragic accident strongly suggest an interest in remaining unnoticed
      - it seems unlikely they would take further rash action without
      waiting to ensure their subterfuge was successful, and thus the
      students should be in no danger for some period. And in regards to
      that subterfuge, I believe Poppy would not begrudge a
      <em class="calibre7">temporary</em> besmirching of her reputation, in the interests
      of seeing justice served."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus, we're not <em class="calibre7">trained</em> for this," McGonagall
      insisted, frustrated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neither are murderers, by and large, yet they do succeed in
      their grim work with alarming frequency. Should <em class="calibre7">we,</em> who
      have the advantage of a noble cause, expect any less of ourselves?"
      Dumbledore knew how this sort of thing sounded when he said it - a
      mixture of inscrutable wisdom and hopeless naivete. It made it
      difficult for most people to debate against him, particularly those
      who respected him; the inscrutability and his reputation made them
      worry they'd seem a fool for arguing later, the naivete as if
      they'd be kicking a puppy. Sure enough, Minerva got that look on
      her face that said she had in no way conceded the argument and yet
      was at a loss to continue it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a moment, as occasionally happened, Dumbledore felt an urge
      to tell her his entire plan, or even <em class="calibre7">all</em> his plans. It
      grew lonely at times, having no one to confide in. But while there
      were obvious advantages of security in plans no one knew about,
      they held a subtler virtue as well. If you only revealed the
      <em class="calibre7">successful</em> plans, <em class="calibre7">after</em> the fact...your
      <em class="calibre7">apparent</em> success rate became, well, startlingly
      impressive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The urge passed, as it always did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was there anything else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Actually, there <em class="calibre7">was</em> one other matter. There's a first
      year who requires additional supervision in Transfiguration -
      Hermione Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. Another Moira?" the wizard asked slowly, his face for a
      moment showing every year of its age.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No...I caught it early, thank Merlin, and she appears to
      understand the seriousness of the matter. Though she seems even
      brighter than Moira was, which makes things both better and
      worse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. Keep me informed, but as always I will leave such
      matters to your judgement." McGonagall nodded, her expression equal
      parts grim and satisfied, though her eyes held a hint of pity as
      well. She strode out of his office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she'd gone, Dumbledore seemed to deflate a bit, the
      imposing and confident arch-wizard somehow replaced by an old man,
      tired and uncertain. There were downsides to his penchant for
      plotting, of course, chief among them the necessity that he alone
      bore the burdens of the damage from plans that failed, and often
      even of those that succeeded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat, slumped, for some time.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
