<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>20. Squiring the Phoenix - Squiring the Phoenix Chapter 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="20. Squiring the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome," the young woman said with a smile. She was maybe
      twenty and had that 'first time staffer' look—still excited and
      bouncy about meeting 'real scientists, by gosh!' Nancy gave her
      about two days of working at a symposium this size before she too
      joined the ranks of the weary and cynical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks," Nancy said, forcing herself to smile in reply. She was
      working on about three hours of sleep so the smile was definitely
      pasted on. There had been too much to do getting ready for this
      thing; why in all the blazing pits of firey hell did they give only
      two weeks of notice? Did they have <em class="calibre7">any</em> idea how hard it
      was to arrange the time, get someone to cover your lab, gather all
      your research notes that might possibly be relevant to something
      with as bizzarely broad a mandate as this thing, organize them into
      a format for sharing, and— She breathed out, forcing herself to let
      go of the irritation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Nancy Keller and these are my staff, Jason and Lorraine,"
      she said, gesturing to the two excited grad students behind her.
      "We're really bushed—do you have rooms for us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely!" chirped Flopsy, or Muffin, or whatever the hell
      her name was. "The conference is in the Room of Requirement over in
      Hogwarts, and so are your rooms. It's just a quick pop through the
      Floo and there will be someone to take your bags and bring you to
      the conference room. Here, let me show you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She bounced to her feet with irritatingly energetic brightness
      and started to lead them towards a roaring fireplace big enough to
      roast an ox. Nancy could feel the heat from three feet away. There
      was a table set up next to it with a large jar of glittery silver
      dust.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here you go!" she burbled. "Just take a pinch of Floo powder,
      throw it into the fire, step in and say 'Hogwarts' nice and loud
      and you'll be there in a bounce. Oh, and don't forget to keep your
      elbows in and get out at the first grate. You wouldn't want to end
      up in Wales like that last fellow." Her smile was bright and shiny
      and Nancy just wanted to smack her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know what your problem is, young lady," she said in her
      best make-the-new-intern-wet-himself voice. "Whatever it might be,
      I am not interested in self-immolating today. Tell us where the
      hell the conference is and stop wasting our time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Babs looked horrified. "Oh, right, I'm sorry. Professor
      McGonagall warned me about this, but I forgot. 'Miranda,' she said,
      'the Muggles don't know anything about magic so they aren't going
      to understand that the Floo is safe, so make sure you show them.'
      I'm so sorry! Here, I'll go first." She grabbed a pinch of the
      green dust and threw it in the fire, making it roar up and turn
      bright green. She stepped in without a care in the world and called
      out "Hogwarts!" She twirled around for a moment as though she were
      being spun on a record player, and then vanished with a pop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nancy blinked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cool," said Lorraine, pushing her Coke-bottle glasses up her
      nose. Jason gave one of his braying laughs but didn't say
      anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A moment later, Fluffy—no, Miranda—came twirling back through
      the fire and stepped out in front of them, brushing a bit of ash
      off her robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"See?" she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nancy forced herself not to growl at Mopsy—damnit, Miranda! It
      wasn't the kid's fault...probably. Maybe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you seriously expecting us to step into a goddamn
      <em class="calibre7">fire</em> just because you have some tric—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's probably fine, ma'am," Lorraine said calmly. "Here, let me
      try." She grabbed a pinch of the powder, threw it in the flames,
      and stepped in. "Hogwarts!" she called. With a quick spin she was
      gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She reappeared a few seconds later, rubbing her left elbow.
      "It's fine," she said. "She wasn't kidding about keeping your
      elbows in, though. Ow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nancy glared at her for a moment but grabbed her roller bag,
      threw the powder in, and stepped into the suddenly-green flames.
      "Hogwarts!" she growled. The world twirled around her like it had
      that one time she dropped acid in grad school. It wasn't any more
      pleasant this time around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was spinning through a cyclone of green fire; something she
      couldn't see smacked her elbow, making her funnybone shriek and her
      arm go numb. Up ahead she saw a fireplace grill; she quickly pushed
      herself to the side and stepped into the grill as she whirled
      by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stepped out of another fireplace in what was either a
      medieval castle or a really good impession of one. She stopped to
      look around and stumbled when Lorraine came spinning out of the
      fireplace and smacked into her. Jason came along a moment
      later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That. Was. Awesome!" Jason said, eyes shining like little
      stars. "Man, I <em class="calibre7">love</em> this wizarding thing!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A red-headed teenager in a black robe and a serious expression
      stepped forward. "Hello, Dr Keller. I'm Percy Weasley, Head Boy of
      Hogwarts. You're just in time for the introductory meeting. Let me
      have your bags taken—Twirlmott!" A weird creature appeared with a
      <em class="calibre7">crack!</em> and a puff of smoke. It was only a couple feet
      tall, and it looked like a stick figure with a wrinkly potato head
      the size of a beachball, ears you could use for parachutes, and
      eyes like something out of one of those anime that Jason liked so
      much.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sir?" the little creature asked. It sounded like it had
      been sucking on helium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twirlmott, please take our guests' bags," Percy said with a
      polite nod. "They'll be staying in the Room of Requirement, the
      version with the '37' on the door."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Twirlmott nodded, grabbed all the luggage, and vanished with a
      <em class="calibre7">pop!</em> before Nancy could say 'no, wait, stop!'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Percy smiled and nodded to himself as though pleased at how
      smoothly things were going. "If you'll follow me," he began, "I'll
      take you to the introductory meeting. I think you'll find it qute
      interesting."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">David Martinson was barely in the door when his
      fourteen-year-old son came barreling into the room with a creature
      of myth and legend on his shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look dad! He followed me home, can we keep him?" Joel asked,
      grinning impishly at the stereotype.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">David looked at the phoenix consideringly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know son," he said gravely. "A firebird is an awfully
      big responsibility. You'd have to feed him and clean his cage—oof!"
      He braced himself as his son hugged him, laughing at the mutual
      joke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, where did he come from?" David asked, kicking his
      suitcase aside with distracted ease. "Does he have a name? I'm
      guessing he's something to do with those British wizards I was
      reading about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Joel nodded. "I think so, yes. He's smart, and he can
      kinda-sorta talk, but he communicates mostly in images. Peri, can
      you tell Dad about yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre8"><em class="calibre7">fire | primoridal | heart | light | eternal |
      courage | endless | inspiration |
      partner-friend-protector</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">David stumbled and sat down on the couch. "Wow. That was
      intense." He looked at the bird with new respect. "Okay, so he's
      intelligent and can communicate, although not in words." He paused.
      "I really don't know what to ask at this point." He thought about
      it. "You called him Peri?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yep. Short for 'Hyperion'," Joel said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">David nodded. "Titan of Wisdom, Watchfulness, and the Light, and
      father of Helios the Sun. Yes, that fits. Glad to see you still
      remember those old stories." He smiled, remembering the many hours
      of reading myths and legends and science fiction and fantasy to a
      much younger Joel at night. At the time, David had had to do a lot
      of traveling for work, and it tended to show itself by him falling
      asleep in the middle of a page.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"And then Bilbo said...the plane...needs toothpaste...check
      oil light..."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Dad, Dad, that's not what it says!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Huh? Oh, right, sorry. And then Bilbo said 'I'm old,
      Gandalf. I know I don't look it but I'm beginning to feel it in my
      heart.'"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">David smiled a little mistily. Those had been good years; Mary
      had still been with them then. Ten years, and he still missed her
      every day.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a quick cough he brought his attention back to the present.
      "So, a firebird. No, wait, a phoenix. The <em class="calibre7">Times</em> had that
      interview with that British girl who was talking to their space
      agency, she called it a phoenix. Okay, so, why is he here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Joel shrugged. "I don't know. I was upstairs last night watching
      the Perseids and he showed up. I'd been...thinking about wanting to
      go to the stars, and he asked me if I really meant it. I think
      that's what he's here for, is to help with that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are two phoenixes known to exist right now, and both of
      them want to be part of the space effort?" David asked, caught
      somewhere between surprise and disbelief. "Where were they the past
      twenty years when we were busy giving up on space travel?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peri reared up, flaring his wings wide, threw his head back and
      sang. The song poured out like liquid light: a challenge, a battle
      cry, a <em class="calibre7">demand</em> that they rise to their highest, that they
      fulfill all of the promises they'd made to themselves, undo all the
      compromises, face up to and, more importantly, <em class="calibre7">overcome</em>
      their own faults instead of pushing them off on others. It reached
      into both of them and called forth the fiercest, purest essence of
      themselves and pointed it at the battle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the song stopped, David fell back into his own skin; the
      world seemed darker...although, perhaps not as dark as it had been
      before, now that he had the memory of phoenix song. That memory
      echoed deep within him, plucking on all the strings of hope and
      dreams that he'd tucked away in order to make room for school and a
      job and bills and taxes and all the other myriad mundane details of
      life. It was too late for many of his dreams, but he could help
      Joel to achieve <em class="calibre7">his</em>. After all, wasn't that what fathers
      did?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He rubbed his chin thoughtfully, trying to figure out how to do
      that. "All right...if the goal is to get to space, then we could
      get in touch with NASA. Or, I suppose we could go up the chain and
      talk to someone in government—I'm not sure who would be best,
      though. And I don't really want to end up with reporters camped on
      the porch, so let's try to keep a lid on this for now. Or...hm. Let
      me get that article, I'm sure they said something about phoenixes,
      but I don't remember what. First thing we'll need is to know more
      about Peri and what he wants from us."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Has anyone compiled a list of all this stuff?" Fred asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nancy shrugged. "Dunno, I only got here a couple hours ago.
      First thing I saw was a woman who I swear was Mrs Piggle-Wiggle
      pushing a cart of candy around, including some frogs made out of
      chocolate that kept trying to hop away. Over at the bar they were
      filling the water pitchers with a swishy wand and some bad Latin,
      and some of the drinks were doing swan dives into themselves. A few
      feet away from <em class="calibre7">that</em> I watched this Scottish woman turn
      into a cat—a <em class="calibre7">small</em> cat, so goodbye conservation of
      mass—and about a minute later some guy in a paisely bathrobe turned
      a marble into a magpie."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred frowned. "Why a marble and a magpie? Was he just into
      alliteration?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shrugged. "I asked him that very same question and he said
      'Why a magpie? Because I'm bollocks at parakeets.'" She shook her
      head in disbelief. "I'm glad you're here, Fred. This is a little
      weird for me; it's nice to have a familiar face around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred smiled and was just starting to open his mouth when a young
      boy tapped him on the arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me, Doctors Blaise and Keller?" he asked politely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Fred asked curiously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Harry Potter. Welcome to the symposium. How have you found
      it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it was easy," Fred said casually. "I just got off the
      Portkey and there it was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. Nancy sighed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Kid, where's your dad?" Nancy asked. She didn't <em class="calibre7">do</em>
      kids. "I'm assuming he was the Harry Potter who sent the
      invites?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned and took a breath. "No, Doctor Keller. I was the
      one who organized this symposium. I need to find a way to do
      ultra-fast healing, age reversion, and a full-spectrum disease
      cure. We already have a means to prevent death regardless of injury
      or age, we just need to solve the eternal youth and health
      part."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">You</em> need, huh?" she said. Christ. Wizards, and now a
      kid organizing things. Yeah, right. "How old are you, anyway? Nine?
      Ten?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's face got cold. "Twelve," he said, clearly hanging on to
      the shreds of his temper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nancy..." Fred said. "Maybe go easy? Things are weird here,
      maybe they have some kind of instantaneous education or something?
      Or maybe he's like the Merlin from legend, he ages backwards or
      something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's face got even colder. "You are in error, Doctor. I am,
      in fact, twelve years old. I am also the son of an Oxford
      professor, I have read the Feynman lectures, can do calculus, and,
      quite frankly, I probably know more about psychology and the
      function of the brain than both of you put together. I also break
      physics on an hourly basis and defeated a Dark Lord—not once but
      twice—was the first one ever to destroy a Dementor, was the one who
      figured out that Dementors are simply the shadow of Death, was a
      major participant in the effort to destroy <em class="calibre7">every</em> Dementor
      during that unpleasantness a few weeks ago, and was the person who
      instigated a serious effort at curing Death and illness. A job, I
      might add, which neither of <em class="calibre7">you</em> has seen fit to do,
      despite working in biogerontology for longer than I've been alive.
      I would <em class="calibre7">appreciate</em> it if the two of you would stop
      automatically treating me like a child and actually <em class="calibre7">use your
      brains.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hot rage boiled up Nancy's throat. "Look, you snot-faced
      little—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fred placed a hand on her arm; she glared at him but stopped
      talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, Mr. Potter," he said. "You're an adult in a child's
      body and you have a significant list of achievements. Why were you
      coming over to us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's voice was icy cold and precise; he seemed at least as
      angry as Nancy. "I would like to introduce you to Mr. Throgwattle
      and Professor Slughorn. Mr. Throgwattle is a senior med-wizard at
      Saint Mungo's, which is the best hospital in wizarding Britain.
      Professor Slughorn is undisputedly the best potion master in
      Britain and quite possibly in the world. I suspect the four of you
      will have some very interesting discussions. Also, you should be
      aware of the laboratory facilities; this is the Room of
      Requirement, and it takes whatever form is desired, and supplies
      whatever facilities are needed. Simply step out the door, tell the
      receptionist what you need, and he'll open it to an appropriate
      lab."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Mr. Potter," Fred said with a polite nod. "Please,
      lead the way. By the way, we were wondering if anyone has compiled
      a list of all this magic stuff and everything it can do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snorted, not even bothering to turn and look at them as he
      led them across the room. "Has anyone compiled a list of this
      science stuff and everything it can do? This school spends seven
      years teaching a functional level of magical knowledge, and there
      isn't enough time to study every subject. However, you can pick up
      a briefing packet at the door; there was a delay and they didn't
      arrive on time or you would have been given one on the way in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The things I think you should be most immediately aware of are
      Invigoration Draught, Wit-Sharpening Potion, Liquid Luck, and
      Polyjuice. You'll find descriptions of them in the packets but they
      are, respectively, a powerful stimulant, a nootropic, a guarantee
      of successful action, and something that will turn you into another
      person. The advantages of intelligence enhancement and guaranteed
      luck should be obvious; I had thought that perhaps Polyjuice could
      be modified to turn you into a younger or uninjured version of
      yourself." He led them around a knot of people eagerly discussing
      the opportunity for using False Memory Charms and Legilimency to
      exchange knowledge from mind-to-mind. Pushing through a last bit of
      crowd he brought them to two men who were leaning on the wall and
      sipping drinks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Slughorn, Mister Throgwattle, I'd like to introduce
      Doctors Keller and Blaise," Harry said, nodded politely. "They are
      experts on life extension from the Muggle side of things. I think
      the four of you will have a great deal to discuss. Excuse me." He
      turned and vanished into the crowd.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, can you get it to take the—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's a girl. Well, no, phoenixes are actually immortal and
      don't reproduce so they don't really have genders. Still, I think
      of her as a girl, and her name is Xare. Please don't call her 'it.'
      And she's just as intelligent as we are; you can talk to her
      directly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patrick "call me Pat" Halligan rubbed his forehead, hard, as
      though trying to push the ache out. He'd been a systems engineer at
      the Space Agency for ten years, and Chief Engineer of Life Support
      Systems for three; he was used to dealing with problems, but he was
      having a lot of them today. The idea of talking seriously about
      sending a twelve-year-old girl into the single most lethal
      environment known to man—i.e., outer space—without any protection
      aside from a suit, was probably the biggest problem. The fact that
      the laws of physics were really more like polite suggestions was
      another—actually, maybe that one was bigger, he wasn't sure. The
      fact that he was sitting opposite the
      aforementioned-twelve-year-old girl and she had <em class="calibre7">a flaming
      creature of myth</em> on her shoulder which was <em class="calibre7">actually on
      fire, right now!</em> yet wasn't burning anything...and apparently
      the thing had human-level intelligence and he was supposed to
      engage it in conversation... He pulled the bottle of Tylenol out of
      his desk drawer and knocked four back. Screw recommended doses,
      this day was just getting more painful by the minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, fine. Xare, sorry about this but if you're going to be
      involved in experiments that could kill someone, then I really need
      to check. You're actually fully intelligent? Like, self-aware?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Caw!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed. "Right. Maybe, maybe not, but you can't speak
      English."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She said yes, sir," Hermione offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He really hoped the Tylenol would kick in soon. "Okay, good.
      Let's try something else. Can you read?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Caw!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, sir, she can't," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He rubbed his head again. "Okay, something else then." He pulled
      three variously-colored pens out of his breast pocket and set them
      on the desk in a careful line. "Xare, would you please touch the
      red pen, then the blue one, then the red one again, and then the
      green one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix gave him a rather old-fashioned look, but it—she!
      remember the she!—hopped over to the desk and tapped a claw on the
      indicated pens.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Huh." He stared at the bird for a moment. So, this is what
      first contact with an alien species felt like. Well, not really
      <em class="calibre7">first</em> contact, since apparently these 'wizards' had known
      about them for years. Still, first contact for him. "Okay, how's
      your grasp on math? Can you tap your claw two plus three
      times?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix cocked its head at him in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sigh. "Okay, no grasp on math," he said. "I suppose that's
      something that immortal birds made out of fire don't really need.
      This should be jolly fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you really need her to do math, sir?" the girl asked. "You
      and I can do the math, but don't we just need to know if she can
      get somewhere?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Pat shrugged. "I suppose." He shuffled through his folder for a
      minute and passed over an 8x10. "Okay, uh, Xare, this is a picture
      of Mare Imbrium. Could you go there based on the picture?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix looked at the picture, then hopped back onto
      Hermione's shoulder and craned her head around to look at her
      human.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to be able to get there, Xare," her mistress said
      firmly. "It's important. Everyone, everywhere may depend on it—far
      more people than the Dementors could ever have killed are at risk
      if magic and science are mixed and someone decides to use them for
      evil. We need to have a base somewhere else, so that at least some
      people can survive. Could you do it? Could you take me there?"
      Hermione picked up the picture and held it up in front of the bird,
      looking from Xare to the picture and back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Caw!</em> the phoenix said. There was a blast of fire and
      bird and girl were gone.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">Author's Footnote:</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">I have a
      mailing list! It can be found at</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">bit. do
      /dks-list</strong></em><em class="calibre7">. There is one email every two weeks,
      and each one includes links to new postings as well as bonus
      material not available on the web—world history, character studies,
      deleted scenes, etc.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Also, I have other stories for sale! You can find them over
      on 'davidstorrs. com'. I've listed the current catalogue and the
      current prices below; obviously they may have changed if you're
      reading this long after I posted it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Draugar War: Opening Salvo" ($1.99), fantasy, novella. It's
      a spinoff from my story, 'The Two Year Emperor'; High Marshal
      Albrecht Löfgren arrives for a simple troop inspection but ends up
      having to lie to High Command, pretend to kill several thousand
      legionnaires, and—oh yes—fight off the end of the world. Ah well,
      looks like it's Tuesday.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One Hot Night" ($0.99), fantasy, novelette. A spinoff from my
      story 'The Two Year Emperor' in which Ingfred wheels, deals, and
      cons his way into walking through a legal loophole so that he can
      make a a fortune selling his memories to a tabloid...and then the
      law catches up to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Baby Blues" ($1.99), rational horror, novella. Mitchell has
      escaped from Rikers Island and is desperate to reunite with his
      daughter, but it's not going to be easy; Rikers is no ordinary
      prison, Mitchell is no ordinary prisoner, and every human in the
      city is desperate to get him back behind bars...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pay Attention" ($1.99), rational horror, novella. Pay
      attention. Don't touch the ouija board again. Don't let yourself be
      distracted. You can keep your mind as long as you don't get
      distracted. Stay focused. Stay alert. And, whatever you do, <em class="calibre7">pay
      attention.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
