<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>20. Squiring the Phoenix - Squiring the Phoenix Chapter 5, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="20. Squiring the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 5</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">Author's Note:</strong></em> <em class="calibre7">Ordinarily I put
      this in the footer, but given the ending of this chapter I choose
      to have nothing after it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">My mailing list can be found at</em> <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre8">bit. do
      /dks-list</strong></em><em class="calibre7">. "Squiring the Phoenix" will be
      concluding shortly. When it does, I will be publishing a new
      superheroes-in-the-real-world serial novel. List members will
      receive free copies of each chapter before it is posted for sale on
      Amazon. Due to Amazon's Terms of Service, once they are posted for
      sale the chapters will not be available elsewhere.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hang on, I must have misheard you," Toni said in disbelief.
      "Say that again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lambert Smythe frowned. "The Gemino curse creates worthless
      copies of an object," he obligingly repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you say 'worthless', what exactly do you mean? Like, if
      you copy a piece of gold the result is made of lead or
      something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one would create gold," he said with a frown. "The goblins
      are in a permanent state of war with anyone who performs
      counterfeiting or tampers with the valuable metal supply."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Toni shook her head in frustration. "Argh, that's not the— Okay,
      fine. Forget the gold. If you duplicate...say, a diamond, is it
      made out of glass?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shook his head. "No, the copy is indistinguishable from the
      original in the beginning. It simply degrades fairly rapidly—in
      general it decomposes into dust and then to nothing within a few
      days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Toni stared at him. He couldn't really be this thick,
      could...oh, wait. Wizards. Right. She rubbed her head for a moment
      in frustration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Will the copy possess any magical properties of the original?"
      she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm," he said thoughtfully. "I...don't actually know. So far as
      I'm aware, no one's ever actually checked that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Toni gave him a narrow-eyed look. "You're pranking me, aren't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No, why would I do that?" he asked in apparently honest
      confusion. "You're paying me for consultation, and I have a
      reputation to maintain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rubbed her head again and then said, with nigh-infinite
      patience, "Would you please cast Gemino on your wand, and then
      check to see if you can cast spells with the copy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid I can't," he said. "It requires a flick of the wand
      at the target, and there's no way to flick a wand at itself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh," she said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do have a mokeskin pouch with me, if that will suffice...?"
      he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes! Absolutely, do that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took something invisible off his belt, twitched his wand at
      it with a quick 'Gemino!' and then picked up something invisible
      just to the right of the invisible thing he had originally put
      down. He mimed opening a bag and peering in, then stuck his arm in
      up to the shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hm, fascinating!" he said. "Yes, not only did it duplicate the
      pouch, but all the contents as well. Here's my pipe, and my
      tobacco, and a copy of...erm...some reading material, and my
      broom...yes, everything seems to be here." He reclaimed his arm and
      gave her a broad smile. "Very clever indeed! Still, it's of limited
      use; the broom will fall apart in two or three days, so I'm better
      off sticking with the real one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sighed. "Is there any reason you can think of that smoking
      the duplicated tobacco would be dangerous?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Noooo...I don't <em class="calibre7">think</em> so," he said slowly. "The
      duplicates will degrade within a few days, meaning any smoke that
      was still in my lungs would turn to dust and then vanish. I
      wouldn't recommend doing it with food, or smoking duplicated
      tobacco on a regular basis, but there shouldn't be a harmful level
      of particulates left in the lungs from smoking a small amount."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you're sure it's safe, would you please try it?" she
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shrugged, pulled a pipe and tobacco from nowhere, and lit up.
      "Hm, yes. Quite good," he said in approval.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it the same as the original as far as you can tell?" she
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded, extinguishing the pipe and tapping out the remaining
      contents, which he then Vanished. "Indeed. Still, it's a bit of a
      curiosity, isn't it? I wouldn't recommend smoking duplicate tobacco
      regularly, and the stuff is cheap enough that it's just as easy to
      buy it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took a deep breath, determined not to lose her temper.
      "Would you come with me, please?" She turned and led him back into
      the lab. Aubrey looked up and gave her a wave as she came in, then
      went back to what he was working on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She led Smythe over to the cooler where the troll and unicorn
      blood samples were kept, and pulled out a vial of each.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could you please duplicate these for me?" she asked. He
      shrugged and did so; she took the resulting duplicates, put them in
      the mixer, and pressed the start button. A minute later, when the
      samples had been properly combined, she took the result out, loaded
      it into an injector, and pulled a mouse out of one of the nearest
      cages.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Properly speaking, I should have a planned procedure and
      controls set up before doing this," she said, injecting the mixture
      into the mouse. "Right now, though, I just want to do a quick test
      to see if this idea is completely silly on the face of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a scalpel from one of the drawers, she made a small
      incision on the mouse's left forefoot...which promptly healed
      closed. She set the mouse carefully back in its cage, walked
      silently to the autoclave to deposit her scalpel, and switched the
      device on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Wizards,</em>" she muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please try to hold very still," the technician said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milly Mockleworthington lay still, happily tapping her toes
      together and twiddling her thumbs where her hands were folded on
      her stomach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ma'am, please try to remain <em class="calibre7">still</em>," the technician
      said with admirable patience. "That means your hands and feet as
      well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milly sighed. "Oh, fine. You Muggles and your silly ideas." She
      sighed again and went still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Thank you</em>," the technician growled, carefully pushing
      Mute on the mic first. With the goddamn witch finally having
      stopped her goddamn fidgeting he pushed the button to slide the
      table inside the MRI and activated the scanner.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gotta say, Doc," the technician said to the researcher beside
      him. "I'm pretty sure you're right; magic really must cause brain
      damage. I hope you figure out how to fix it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peri was on Joel's shoulder every moment now, and never stopped
      singing. It made life a lot more pleasant for everyone who worked
      with Joel; the song of the phoenix soothed away worries and
      frustration, made headaches vanish, temporarily suppressed the
      symptoms of a cold, and left people cheerful and energized for
      hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you guys think it's weird that Peri sings constantly?" Karen
      asked. "He didn't used to, back when they first came in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Davis shrugged. "I dunno. Maybe he's just happy because things
      are going so well?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, but...it's weird, and a little disturbing," she said. "I
      mean, when you're around them, you <em class="calibre7">can't help</em> but feel
      good. It's like the bird is shooting you up with Prozac. There's a
      whole question of free will here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Davis looked at her is disbelief. "Are you <em class="calibre7">seriously</em>
      complaining about the fact that you're in a better mood when the
      bird is singing at you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She grimaced. "Well...I dunno, it's bothering me is all. I think
      next time I see him I'm going to ask him to not do it around me
      anymore. I'd rather be Karen, instead of being forced to be
      happy-cheerful-Karen all the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Davis shrugged. "I think you're nuts but sure, whatever. Now,
      can we get back to these designs? We've got a review meeting in two
      days and they aren't finished yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening, I'm Peter Jennings and you're watching ABC World
      News Tonight. In a surprise announcement today, China has declared
      that it is nationalizing its wizarding community. In the future,
      all Chinese wizards will be considered national assets; although
      they will be given all possible comforts, they will also be
      required to perform assignments as directed by the office of the
      President. In addition, they will be required to donate sperm and
      eggs on a regular basis in order to enlarge the national wizarding
      population.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The United States, Britain, and most European nations have all
      raised strident objections to these policies, from both among the
      wizarding and mundane populations. Economic sanctions are being
      discussed and may go into effect as soon as next week.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In technology news, scientists at MIT have completed analysis
      on the transfigured carbon nanotube samples provided by Harry
      Potter. The actual analysis was completed under the effects of
      Liquid Luck, but all results were checked afterwards under normal
      conditions, and they feel confident that they can go into
      large-scale production within three months.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finally, NASA has announced that the deployment of the Icarus
      constellation of solar power satellites has been successful.
      President Clinton will be onhand for a ceremony at Cape Canaveral
      tomorrow in order to press the button activating the satellites,
      after which America will be free of dependency on fossil fuels. In
      addition, there will be a surplus of nearly one hundred gigawatts
      which will be sold to Canada and Mexico. Satellite deployment will
      continue, and it is expected that within ten years the entire North
      American continent will be powered exclusively from space. Elon
      Musk's Tesla Corporation is already building solar recharging
      stations around the country to take advantage of the nearly-free
      energy to power their new electric cars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey Karen, you wanted to see us?" Joel asked as he walked into
      her office and sprawled out in a chair, crossing his lanky legs at
      the ankle. He'd really shot up over the last eight years; the
      skinny teenager had been replaced with a six-foot-two young man
      with some serious muscle from horsing satellites around—even with
      Peri taking most of the weight, the things still weren't light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Peri's liquid trills flowed through the room in a river of
      happiness and Karen felt the tension in her shoulders vanish.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," she said. "I have a favor to ask. Peri, could you please
      stop singing for a minute?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bird completly ignored her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even through the happiness imposed by the phoenix song, Karen
      frowned. This wasn't right; Peri was a very cooperative person. He
      worked smoothly with the rest of the team and was pretty much
      always willing to donate a feather for study, shift heavy equipment
      around, or whatever else they needed. Occasionally someone would
      ask for something unreasonable just as a joke and he would give
      them a look of disgust and a flip of the feathers, but she couldn't
      think of a time when he'd refused a reasonable request.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Joel shrugged. "Sorry, Karen. He just seems happy these days; I
      think it's because things are going so well with the program. We're
      really making a difference. You know we can't exactly communicate
      in words, but he feels kind of...smug...about the fact that he and
      his person have done more to help humanity than any other phoenix
      ever." He smiled in tolerant amusement and scritched Peri's chest
      feathers. "I sometimes imagine all the phoenixes getting together
      around the water cooler and Peri strutting up and down going 'who
      da man? oh yeah, it's me, it's me, oh yeah' and all the other
      phoenixes sighing and bowing their heads."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Karen laughed. She was sure that, even without the phoenix song,
      it would have been a funny image; with the song, it was hilarious.
      Which was sort of the problem, actually; she couldn't even trust
      her own sense of humor around the bird. Still, there was nothing
      for it; she couldn't exactly tape Peri's beak shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, never mind," she said. "Anyway, the final design review
      is being done for the Marsbase dome components and I wanted to get
      your input. You'll be asked to join the review committee tomorrow,
      but for now I want to go over things with you one-on-one to make
      sure that we've optimized for your carry capacity, work out the
      best timetable for deliveries, and generally make sure that neither
      of you see any issues. In addition to the components themselves,
      you'll be taking along a team that will do the setup while you haul
      new elements up. Anyway, here's the basic component design..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey big brain, any word back on the applications?" Pat asked
      with a grin. Based on the fact that the girl was right in the
      middle of her Happy Dance, he was pretty sure he knew the
      answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She brandished a fistful of envelopes at him. "I got in! I got
      in! I <em class="calibre7">got in!</em> Wooohooo!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He snickered. The twenty-year-old version of Hermione was a lot
      more socially ept and a lot less of a spaz than her twelve-year-old
      self had been, but sometimes the younger Hermione still peeked
      out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre7">where</em> did you get in, if I may ask?" he said with
      exaggerated politeness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everywhere! Oxford, Cambridge, Princeton, Stanford,
      MIT...everywhere! Squeeeeeeee!" By now she was just vibrating in
      place, clutching the envelopes to her chest and bouncing up and
      down at super speed, so fast that Xare hopped to a nearby bookshelf
      with a disgruntled squawk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He laughed. "That's lovely; you totally earned it. Now, do I
      need to leave you alone for a minute or do you think you can come
      down to Earth? Lunar City just finished digging the Gamma tunnels
      and—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeeeeeeeeee!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shook his head with a smile and went down to the lounge to
      get some coffee. When he came back he pushed the door opening,
      already saying, "Okay, so, we've got these new—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Squeeeeeeeeee!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He shook his head and headed back to the lounge to drink his
      coffee. There were eighty new colonists waiting in the launch bay,
      but they could wait a little longer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that explains a lot," Dan said, leaning back in his chair
      and studying the scans thoughtfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So...are we really going to publish this?" Bill asked
      hesitantly. "I mean, what happens if the wizards find out that
      casting spells really <em class="calibre7">does</em> cause brain damage?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dan looked unhappy. "I think we have to, or the grant goes away.
      We can keep it dull though...title it something like
      <em class="calibre7">Comparative Imaging of Enhanced and non-Enhanced Cerebral
      Tissue</em>. Avoid using the words 'magic', 'mundane', or 'brain
      damage.' Maybe it can go under the radar."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have an obligation to tell the wizards what's happening to
      them, don't you think?" Bill said. "I mean, not telling them would
      basically be letting them hurt themselves. It would be like
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> telling people that asbestos is bad for them when
      they're breathing it every day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dan scrubbed at his face. "Look, I don't like it either, but
      this is like cold fusion—it's such a strong claim that we better be
      <em class="calibre7">absolutely sure</em> before we say anything. What if we're
      wrong? We freak people out and ruin our own reputations for
      nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For that matter, these results raise more questions than they
      answer. Why are the effects so specific? Wizards don't lose
      memories, or the ability to speak—they just get...wacky. Purple
      robes and green hats, all that stuff. And they don't see simple
      possibilities that are perfectly obvious. Shoot, my daughter came
      up with all sorts of ways to exploit Aguamenti, and she's only
      four. And it's not even all of them—<em class="calibre7">some</em> of the wizards
      are perfectly sensible, like that Potter kid who's been doing all
      the work in nanotube production and biogerontology, Granger over at
      the UKSA...even Slughorn seems pretty balanced from what I've seen
      at his presentations. Why does it only affect some of them? "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe it's a genetic thing?" Bill suggested. "Aren't Potter and
      Granger both from mundane families?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dan took his glasses off and scrubbed his face with both hands.
      "Not sure. I <em class="calibre7">think</em> I remember some article in one of the
      journals talking about the Slughorn family as one of the oldest in
      wizarding Britain, so he's probably a pureblood. And Potter was
      adopted; not sure what his genetic parents were. Anyway, good
      thought. Let's look into it. And let's do it <em class="calibre7">fast;</em> you're
      right that if it's true then we need to tell them all quickly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," Bill said unhappily. "Also, I've got a friend over at
      Caltech who can check our results. She'll keep it on the downlow if
      I ask, at least for a while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cave in Poland was very soothing. Nice and small, the walls
      almost within reach. The lanterns surrounding him lit the space
      quite well, banishing even the slightest trace of darkness and
      leaving him to study the colors of the flowstone around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Joel sat cross-legged, leaning back against one wall and taking
      deep breaths. The asteroid mining robot that he was supposed to be
      deploying was sitting in an abandoned warehouse in Detroit; it
      would be safe until he had prepared himself for being out from
      under the protective aura of Peri's song. The Xanax had kicked in
      about ten minutes ago, so it was time to get moving. His doctor
      said he was getting near the maximum safe dose and was looking
      around for a better course of treatment. For now it was enough to
      get him through a two-minute dump-and-go deployment, as long as he
      was careful to only look at the asteroid under his feet instead of
      at the stars around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Mr. Morrison is in a meeting right now," the
      receptionist said. "Could you please have a seat? He'll be with you
      shortly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Janey shrugged. "Works for me. I'm paid by the hour; if he wants
      to keep me cooling my heels at a hundred bucks a minute I've got no
      problem with that." She dropped into one of the leather Bauhaus
      chairs and pulled a copy of "Harry Potter: The Philosopher's Stone"
      out of her backpack. Potter's biography was one of the more
      interesting things she'd read this year; she was excited to hear
      that there were supposed to be six more books.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Four thousand dollars later, the receptionist's phone buzzed
      with an internal call. She picked it up, listened, and responded
      quietly enough that Janey didn't catch the words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three seconds later, Morrison came bursting out of his office.
      "Terribly sorry to keep you waiting," he said, carefully not using
      her name in front of his receptionist. "I didn't realize you were
      here. Please, won't you join me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Janey made a point of folding down the corner of her page and
      tucking the book away before standing up, glancing pointedly at her
      watch, and preceding him into his office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once inside she was all business. "I need your signature on
      this," she said, pulling out two copies of a document and setting
      them on his desk. "It's the standard form that says that you will
      accept my statements under Veritaserum and absolve me of all
      responsibility in the event that the information has been leaked
      elsewhere or if it was taken from me by force and I was then
      Obliviated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He read through it quickly and signed both copies. She tucked
      one away in her backpack and then pulled out a giant stone bowl
      that was far too big to fit in the pack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here's the 'Sieve," she said, setting it on his desk. "It's a
      Gemini, so you've got one, maybe two days before it decomposes. I
      assume you've got the Veritaserum?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, of course," he said, rifling his desk drawer for a small
      bottle and handing it to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She set one drop on her tongue and handed him back the bottle.
      "I have made no copies of the information I am about to present to
      you, nor have I communicated it to anyone else. So far as I am
      aware, what I am about to give you is the only copy of that
      information in existence outside of the original source. I am not a
      perfect Occlumens and therefore this testimony under Veritaserum
      may be considered reliable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, here's the memory," she said, tapping her wand to her
      temple and pulling out a thin silver string. She dropped it in the
      bowl, and closed up her bag.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whatever the information is, I hope it's worth all the
      secrecy," she told him. "Payment is due on receipt, in cash, so
      I'll need that now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely," he said, trying not to stare in fascination at the
      wavering silver pool. "Just head down the hall to your right and
      tell my CFO the amount; he'll have the cash ready."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pleasure doing business with you," Janey Mnemonic said, walking
      out of his office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stared at the Jumbo-tron in amazement as the satellite so
      far above them began to extrude carbon nanotube cables from both
      sides. The fact that the nanotube assemblers had been designed,
      built, tested, and deployed in under two years was a feat of
      engineering that bordered on the miraculous. It would have been
      utterly impossible without enough Liquid Luck to make a series of
      eight thousand lightning bolts destroy the lab where the work had
      been done and everything for a mile around. All the lab workers had
      been killed in the process, but the data had been carefully
      streamed offsite in real time so none of it was lost. All the lab
      workers had been terminal cancer patients who understood that this
      was a suicide job, and the lab had carefully been built in the
      middle of nowhere in South Dakota with the expectation of its
      destruction. No matter how much collateral damage had been caused,
      the job had succeeded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A cheer went up from everyone watching. It would be days before
      the cable actually touched down, but this was it: once the thin
      anchor cable had been secured, robot spinners could run additional
      lines up it until the resulting tower was strong enough to support
      thousands of tons of people and cargo, moving up and down in simple
      elevator cars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a certain segment of humanity, this was the holy grail: a
      space elevator. Humanity could now reach space—and, from there, the
      stars—without needing a phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wiped away the tears and swallowed around the lump in his
      throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o-o-o-o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening, my fellow Americans." President Bush's tailors
      and speech coaches had done their absolute best to give him a sense
      of gravitas; the best they had been able to manage was 'pinched'.
      Still, it was the words and the actions that were needed, not
      charisma.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fall of the Twin Towers is a tragedy from which America is
      still reeling. Search and rescue efforts are underway, and I offer
      my thanks and my prayers to all the brave men and women of both the
      mundane and magical community who have stepped up to assist in this
      time of trouble. The magical healing has saved dozens of lives, for
      which we are eternally grateful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Despite all that magic and medicine can do, thousands of
      Americans have lost their lives and hundreds more are yet to be
      found. Several square miles of Manhattan are considered unsafe to
      live due to the potentially harmful smoke and dust fallout from the
      Towers. FEMA is in talks with the wizarding community to see if
      there is a way to clear the dust magically, although it is too soon
      to have an answer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The terrorist organization Al-Qaeda has stepped forward to
      claim responsibility for the act. In a recorded video message the
      head of the organization, Osama Bin-Laden, has declared that the
      attack was motivated by, and I quote, 'the alliance of the Great
      Satan with the devil-spawn of magic.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bush paused, his face tight in clearly suppressed anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In the wake of the 9/11 tragedy, I authorized deployment of
      magical intelligence-gathering assets. Wizards employed at the CIA
      dispatched an owl to deliver a letter to Bin-Laden. The contents of
      that letter were quite simple: We are coming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A mixed unit of Delta Force operators followed the owl; upon
      discovering the location of their target the wizarding operators
      Side-Along Apparated their mundane cohorts into Bin-Laden's
      headquarters. Twenty-seven Al-Qaeda members were killed and
      eighteen captured, including Bin-Laden himself. As these
      individuals were taken as prisoners of war, our military was free
      to use Legilimancy to obtain critical information about the rest of
      the organization.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like most terrorist organizations, Al-Qaeda was organized as a
      series of cells, each of which answered to only one handler. Not
      even Bin-Laden himself was aware of all members of the
      organization.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This did not save them. Despite their best efforts, Delta Force
      worked their way through the chain of handlers in under twenty-four
      hours. To the best of our knowledge, every single member of
      Al-Qaeda is either in custody or dead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused, allowing those words to sink in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Captured members will be tried as military prisoners, meaning
      that they have no right to Fifth Amendment protection. They will be
      interrogated under Veritaserum and those admitting to terrorist
      crimes will be executed. Should any member of the organization be
      discovered who has not performed any actual acts of terror, they
      will be convicted as accomplices before the fact and sentenced to
      life imprisonment in Leavenworth Federal Penitentiary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In this time of sorrow, my heart goes out to all those who have
      lost loved ones or homes. Rest assured, I will do all that is in my
      power to aid you in this time of trouble. All those recovered who
      are injured will be given Healion at federal expense in order to
      fully restore them. Where we are able to recover the bodies,
      Congress has authorized emergency funding to perform full
      resurrections. As you are aware, performing a resurrection requires
      the assistance of someone with a close connection to the deceased.
      FEMA will be establishing a registry in Manhattan; anyone who has
      lost someone in the attack is encouraged to sign up so that we can
      reach you in the event that your loved one's body is recovered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"America has taken a terrible blow this week, yet still we
      stand. In the face of adversity, we shall not yield. In the face of
      attack, we shall conquer. To all those in the world who ally
      themselves with Al-Qaeda or believe in their cause, I say this:
      Bring it on. We will do to you what we have done to the cowards
      that struck at innocent men and women. If you feel that your cause
      is worth dying for, we will be glad to help you with that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you and good night."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
