<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic - Continuing HPMoR: Hacking the Source of Magic Chapter 3: Cheating Death, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="31. Continuing HPMoR Hacking the Source of Magic"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Cheating Death</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">"Fawkes, get Dumbledore's Wizengamot rod-thing and bring it to
      me" Harry requested. He had it a moment later. He had been planning
      to be cautious, to put on his invisibility cloak, and to go back in
      time to before this exchange had occurred, but now that all seemed
      moot, if it were possible at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked over to the place Merlin had stood, touched the rod to
      the same location on the cylinder and repeated the phrases he had
      memorized. The now-familiar artificial person greeted him, "Welcome
      to Atlantis Mainframe 7, Lord Merlin. How may I assist you
      today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was somewhat surprised that anyone had locked down such a
      system, while leaving a key-logger running with its output
      unprotected, but it was a comforting indication that whatever
      people built this place were still only human, that he wasn't
      dealing with a superhuman intelligence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give Harry Potter level zero access."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Operation complete."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eureka!" Harry thought, asking, "Is there an afterlife?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The afterlife simulation is running on cores 15 and 16."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No , seriously, what?" Harry though. He demanded,
      "describe the nature of the afterlife simulation and how it
      works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"After a recognized user dies, their brain is scanned, converted
      and stored, then their consciousness interacts with the afterlife
      simulation. The simulation usually has realistic physical laws and
      earth-like backgrounds, but the minds stored can modify it as they
      desire."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want to bring someone from the afterlife simulation back to
      life as a real person."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Operation not available"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, guess what, we're going to make that operation available.
      First step: you already have a function to convert a brain scan
      into an artificial intelligence. Calculate how to invert that
      process to describe the structure of a brain given the AI, and
      store that as program 'AI to Brain', which takes one name from the
      afterlife simulation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Calculating..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meanwhile, let's start on step two: scan human embryos, fetuses
      and children, determine the gene expression, protein translation,
      and other chemicals present, in each tissue at each point in
      development, and build a complete description of human development
      from a genome to an adult. Use that to create a program 'Genome to
      Body', which takes one complete genome, and one brain description.
      The program should simulate the embryology and growth of a body
      using the given genome, then build that body, as either a young
      adult or at the age of the person's death, whichever is lower. The
      program should construct the brain according to the brain
      description provided."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Calculating..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Finally, let's figure out how to reconstruct genomes. Start by
      scanning a sample of my cells. Many of the cells likely have
      mutations from UV exposure or free radicals, so scan 100 cells. Let
      me know how many points in the genome don't have at least 90/100
      base pairs with the same value between the 100 cells."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Operation complete. All locations in genome show required
      agreement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Save it. Create a program 'Get and Correct Genome', which takes
      a name. If the name refers to a living person, scan 100 cells,
      build the genome, and scan more cells as necessary until there's a
      90% agreement for each base. If the name refers to someone who's
      dead, start with the genome of the most closely related individual
      available, then collect any fragments of genetic material available
      and match their location to the existing genome. If more than 50%
      of the fragments show the same base at a location, use that base,
      otherwise, use the base from the existing genome. Save the new
      genome, and record how much of it came from the preexisting genome
      versus recovered material."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Program saved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get and Correct Genome for Lily Potter" Harry had no idea what
      sources of DNA still existed, or how long DNA would last, but this
      was something he would have done eventually anyway, and would make
      it obvious whether this plan would work. "When you have it, show me
      a visual comparison of the new genome next to mine. Show sections
      that match exactly in green, sections with 90% matches in yellow,
      and everything else in red.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry then had the system adjust the required number of DNA
      fragments and the percentage of consistent material until the
      correlation image between his genome and his mother's reconstructed
      genome showed the correct pattern: half of his chromosomes exactly
      matched parts of hers, and the other chromosomes showed frequent
      differences.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay, that looks good. Save current version of 'Get and Correct
      Genome'."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Program saved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Create a program called 'resurrect' called as a spell using the
      same wand gestures as the patronus charm, with the command
      'resurrect' plus a name. The program should run 'Genome to Body' on
      the genome stored for the name given. If no genome is stored, run
      'Get and Correct Genome' and store and use that result. The program
      should run 'AI to Brain' and use that result to build the body's
      brain. Then transport the person to the individual who invoked the
      spell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Program saved."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Find genome and brain description for Hermione Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Identity not found."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
