<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>1. Squibgineering - Squibgineering Chapter 2: Myrddin, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="1. Squibgineering"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Myrddin</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">3 October 561 (A.D.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Myrddin Wyllt flung himself upright, trying desperately to
      remember where he was and why he was being attacked. He crouched to
      strike as his opponent rolled away, with animal fear still
      screaming inside for him to flee instead, and realized that his
      opponent was already dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Or at least had chosen a highly inadvisable prone, motionless
      fighting stance. Myrddin paused, tremblingly tense, as heightened
      senses flooded him with details.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">First, flight would have been a better response than fight. His
      opponent was far larger, better dressed, better armed, and, though
      Myrddin would never have admitted this to anyone else, much
      handsomer than he, in a generically rugged, jutting-chin sort of
      way. And second, he was nobility. Not a fashion he had ever seen,
      but far too well-dressed for a commoner. This scared him almost as
      much as the initial shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Third, he couldn't remember actually having struck his opponent.
      Fourth, his left foot was colder than his right, the left being
      without a sock. Fifth, it was nighttime, and he was in the hollow
      beneath a low hanging great Elm branch, where he had been fitfully,
      subliminally sleeping in the cold Autumn night. And sixth, that his
      selected weapon was in fact a turnip he had been half-heartedly
      nibbling before drifting off to sleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yes, all things considered, flight would have been the better
      option, had he not at the outset struck such a decidedly lethal
      blow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had not, in fact, been the one to slay this person. Flight
      began to look highly desirable once again. Myrddin Wyllt hastily
      gathered his few posessions. One lute, worn. Cloak, not currently
      worn, but it was bloody cold tonight, so it was about to become so.
      Burlap sack of holding, except now that he was holding it, the lute
      and his cloak, he could no longer put on his boots, worn. He sat
      down, trembling, and fumbled in the dark for his other sock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A shooting star sailed low, far too low, overhead and to the
      East, lighting the Enchanted Forest bluely and casting menacing,
      razor shadows Westward. While this was immensely helpful for
      finding his sock, he had to admit that it also cast a pallor on his
      decision to travel the Enchanted Forest. Not that he had had many
      choices about that when fleeing the village at Cator Court.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now fully, if hastily, equipped for flight, Myrddin turned and
      surveyed his surroundings. Angry shouting to the East, and he
      thought he saw faint flashes of green. Westward, then! But his
      recently deceased visitor had been travelling South when he tripped
      over Myrddin, so the threat was probably not all concentrated
      Eastward.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned to run, and stopped short. To loot or not to loot?
      But, he was a lutist by trade, and for what was a sack if not for
      sacking? And more grimly, he remembered the hunger pains that had
      gotten him into so much trouble in Cator Court. Certainly, his poor
      fingering of the lute had played a part, and the farmer's daughter
      hadn't helped. Looting practice it would be, then, but quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">First, the weapon. A baton? Was he a sheriff? It was metal, but
      short and thin, and finely carved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No time for questions, into the bag it goes. And he wore a scarf
      over his face! A bandit? No time! Water skin. No rations. The boots
      looked amazing! Tough as ox-hide, almost to the knee. He sorely
      hated to leave them, but had no time to remove them from their
      owner. No money at all, and no jewelry. Wait, an odd sash across
      his shoulder held six pear-sized metal ornaments. A badge of
      office? A liability, but he took it anyway. He cursed, then ran,
      and as he ran, he realized - the victim had had no visible
      wounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cold, damp air burned in Myrddin's heaving lungs as he
      alternately leapt and tripped over roots and hedges. He flagged,
      looking for concealment. But then there was movement in a tree
      perhaps 20 meters to the right, in his peripheral vision. Green
      lightning leapt from the tree and crashed into the ground just
      ahead of him. He stifled a shriek and plunged on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he could run no more, he flung himself behind a stone and
      under a gorse bush. To his horror, he realized it was a standing
      stone. At least he was outside the ring. He squirmed away from the
      stone, then froze when he saw a flash of purple-black.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A Lady had appeared in the ring - from nowhere! - facing away
      from him. And... clad in men's trousers. She began to move in a
      practiced way. Myrddin began to weep silently from terror. Her arms
      extended, she twisted at the hips, back and forth. She held a baton
      like the one... no! It was a wand! He shut his eyes in horror,
      awaiting the curse... and saw the flash anyway through his clenched
      eyelids.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many did you get?" A man's voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Five."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Myrddin opened his eyes to see the new voice. A lord had
      appeared in the ring, dressed as the lady was, and as Myrddin's
      visitor had been. He swept the wand in his right hand in front of
      him, arm extended, across his chest, and held it there with his
      left, so that the wand pointed at Myrddin, who cringed. But the
      newcomer only looked toward the lady.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lies. There's no way you killed more than three. They got me
      before I even saw them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will learn."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Were they... stretching? The movements were practiced, but
      seemed casual. This did little to relieve his terror, but he
      listened more carefully. Their speech was intelligible but...
      strange.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another flash of purple that made his retinas ache, and another.
      There were four... souls? Two Lords and two Ladies, beautifully
      built, tall and muscular. They spoke casually of slaughter - and of
      being slaughtered. Surely they were faeries. Or demons. Or worse?
      He tried not to guess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Again into the breach, Scylla?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am ready. Liroy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The one she looked at made no answer, but leapt into the air,
      shrieking like a beast. He shouted "Confringo!" as he flung his arm
      toward a perfectly innocent alder sapling, which burst into flames.
      Then again at a boulder just outside the clearing. Myrddin screamed
      as the rock exploded, but was drowned in the noise of vaporizing
      granite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The others looked at each other and Liroy, sighed, and ran after
      him out of the clearing and Eastward.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
