<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 43: Pressure, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 43: Pressure</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Harrod Xavier Realgar sat at his post in the Ministry of Magic,
      humming happily to himself. The Ministry was practically deserted,
      as you'd expect on a Saturday, so he could actually get work done
      instead of simply running errands for the Assistant to the
      Undersecretary. Esmeralda Beery-Malbolges - said Assistant to the
      aforementioned Undersecretary - took perverse delight in ordering
      Harrod around during the week so he inevitably fell behind in his
      work. He'd volunteered to work Tuesdays through Saturdays, which
      not only earned him praise – and a fifteen percent shift
      differential! – but provided one sane day without other bureaucrats
      pestering him for minutia.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harrod didn't think of <em class="calibre7">himself</em> as a bureaucrat, no!
      Harrod Xavier Realgar was a dedicated civil servant. When he'd been
      at Hogwarts (it seemed so long ago) even his fellow Hufflepuffs had
      commended his work ethic and his almost five years at the Ministry
      hadn't damped his spirit. He worked hard. Tasks placed in front of
      Harrod were more tedious than unpleasant, and it was for the
      betterment of society. And with the recent changes there were
      opening for promotions and he fully intended to grab one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harrod had been filling out the appropriate paperwork to allow
      for the import of several hundred Romanian Ivory-Plumed Chickens
      for the Haruspectors when he heard footsteps echoing down the
      hallway in front of the reception desk. During the week Harrod sat
      at his own desk, but when they were short-staffed, such as today,
      clerks worked in the hallways so that they could guide visitors.
      And also ensure that visitors didn't stray outside of the public
      areas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A man in ill fitting robes, with wild hair and mutton chop
      sideburns that marked him as either a powerful Scottish wizard or
      doddering fool walked along side an immaculately dressed boy with
      slicked back blond hair. Harrod smiled as they walked up to the
      reception desk, carefully setting his paperwork aside, and said
      "Good morning" quite cheerfully to the pair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To his surprise, it was not the man who answered, but the
      boy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning to you, as well. This is Professor Isaac Asimov of
      Hogwarts, and I am Draco Malfoy. I'm not entirely sure, but I
      believe that our appointment is just down this hallway, can you let
      them know that we are coming?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy had pointed to a room slightly down to the right of the
      hall, a non-public area. And at no point had he stopped walking.
      During his speech he'd made a small bow of introduction, but
      continued steadily toward the door. He gave no indication of
      stopping. The man next to him had stopped at the desk, but then
      quickly started after the boy. The boy's actions startled Harrod so
      much that he answered before the name sank in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Excuse me</em>! Ah, pardon me Mr. Malfoy," now that the
      name had sunk in Harrod stood up from the desk. "I don't know
      exactly who you are meeting."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wish to be escorted to the Hall of Prophecy. It's past that
      door, I believe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harrod blanched inside, but didn't show it. He'd heard of the
      Hall of Prophecy, everyone had <em class="calibre7">heard</em> of it. During his
      first week he'd been sent to get a left handed wand, had to clean
      out Boggart cages, and been ordered to the Hall of Prophecy. All
      standard practice, hazing the new guy. Everyone gave him different
      directions and he'd never been let in. Visitors <em class="calibre7">were not
      allowed</em> in the Hall of Prophecy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps they had been, once, centuries ago. Outsiders weren't
      even supposed to know it existed. Harrod knew about the Hall, every
      clerk knew that Merlin had built the Halls somewhere in the
      Ministry. But where? Well it must be in a restricted area and
      clerks with less than a decade's experience did not travel in
      restricted areas or ask about them. At least, not if they wanted to
      stay employed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who did you say you are meeting again, Mr. Malfoy? We don't get
      many requests for that, and I'm not exactly sure what to do, if
      you'll forgive me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not exactly sure how things are organized, now that Amelia
      Bones is running things. The Hall of Prophecy should be under the
      jurisdiction of the Secretary of Divination, Scrying and
      Prediction. Secretary Etain Levalsior."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This time Harrod blanched on the outside. He'd expected the boy
      to name Esmeralda, or some equivalent clerk. Maybe the
      Undersecretary herself. Because Esmeralda bossed him around, he'd
      gotten some face time with Undersecretary Laurensdotter,
      Technically she was five levels above him, in the Ministry's
      Organizational chart. The boy had named the Undersecretary's boss.
      The man shifted his feet but smiled broadly, and seemed genuinely
      interested in the conversation, but hadn't said a word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know if I should bother Secretary Levalsior," Harrod
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nor would I expect you to," Draco replied. "The Hall of
      Prophecy is open to anyone. Merlin himself established it so that
      anyone who wishes can listen to a prophecy about them. Some
      busybodies have restricted access in recent years. You undoubtedly
      learned that from Professor Binns when you were at Hogwarts. I'd
      expect that most Gryffindors would have forgotten, but a Hufflepuff
      like yourself wouldn't forget."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I haven't, of course," Harrod replied. He didn't
      <em class="calibre7">exactly</em> remember that lecture, nobody remembered much from
      Professor Binns. It did sound vaguely familiar. He wondered how the
      boy knew he was a Hufflepuff, as he'd long ago given up the
      childish habit of wearing house colours, then glanced down and saw
      that he'd put his nameplate on the desk, since he was working
      reception. Members of Noble Houses knew people at the top of the
      organizational chart, not at the bottom. He looked back up and saw
      the boy's piercing grey eyes had never left his direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I happen to know that even when it was officially closed it was
      still open to people in good standing who had valid concerns. I
      assume there are procedures in place. I don't expect you to contact
      the Undersecretary, merely follow protocol. No need to involve
      anyone in this at all, beyond the escorts and security. Whatever
      else is normally required. You <em class="calibre7">do</em> know protocol?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's never come up," said Harrod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, there <em class="calibre7">was</em> a protocol for answering unexpected
      requests and Harrod knew that one backwards and forwards. "But I
      can look it up quickly, one moment." He dove behind the desk and
      found a large tome, not bound in leather but in wood, a soft wood
      that reminded Harrod of days he'd spent outdoors, especially during
      his summer vacations. The man and boy talked quietly amongst
      themselves, idle chit chat about something called <em class="calibre7">Movings</em>,
      and Harrod whispered "Protocol for Visiting the Hall of Prophecy"
      and the book flung itself open, pages hissing and howling like an
      angry cat fighting its bath, then there was silence as Harrod
      read:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Protocol for people requesting to visit the Hall of
      Prophecy</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Revision 10, effective July 1, 1992.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Get rid of visitors using any excuse necessary, then file a
      confidential report directly with the current Secretary of D,S
      &amp; P.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harrod looked at the book, then realized he didn't have any idea
      how to get rid of these visitors. Any excuse would sound like ...
      well, an excuse. And he'd just admitted to not knowing about the
      Hall of Prophecy. "Show me revision 9, please." He looked up at
      Draco, made a shrugging motion and the boy nodded and continued his
      conversation about an exciting battle about a whip-wielding Wizard
      trying to recover a strange artifact. Harrod scanned Revision 9 -
      dated 1871 - which had a much more convoluted process, almost all
      of which resulted in the same outcome as Revision 10, but left a
      slight hint at entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That would do quite nicely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Mr. Malfoy. Unfortunately parental approval is required for
      minors. Professor ... I'm sorry what was it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Asimov," said the old man, a bemused smile on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Asimov, right. As Professor Asimov is not your parent, I cannot
      let you in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quite reasonable," said the boy. He made no move to leave and
      instead reached inside his cloak and pulled out a mirror. Harrod
      had seen Aurors using that model and he smiled as the boy held it
      up to his face and chatted into it. He then walked back to the
      reception desk, the first step he'd made away from the door, and
      his shoes echoed across the hard marble floor. He held out the
      mirror so that Harrod could see it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good morning, this is Lady Narcissa Malfoy." The woman in the
      mirror smiled elegantly, her long blond hair draped across her
      shoulder. The family resemblance would be obvious even if he didn't
      recognize her from the articles last summer in the Daily Prophet.
      Despite her age she still looked more enticing than the clerk from
      Amulet Inspection that Harrod had been meaning to ask out. <em class="calibre7">It
      would be easier to date if I didn't work Saturdays</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lady Malfoy. I am Harrod Xavier Realgar, clerk of..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Herbert Beery's Grandson?" she interrupted sweetly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Lady Malfoy, and as I was saying," he started but she
      interrupted again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, then you know who I am and this simplifies things. I
      <em class="calibre7">of course</em> grant you permission to escort my son Draco
      Malfoy of the Most Noble and Ancient House of Malfoy" and at this
      she rolled her hands to signify that she was dropping the rest of
      the tedious formalities, "to go listen to any and all prophecies
      concerning him in the Hall of Prophecy. There."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco turned the Mirror to face him, and said "Thank you,
      Mother. Although...," he peered over the mirror and spoke to both
      of them. "It occurs to me that someone may not believe you did
      this. We can hardly expect people to accept you word for so formal
      a matter over a mirror. Bureaucracy likes paperwork. Shall I have a
      formal letter sent? It wouldn't take but a moment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The last was addressed to Harrod.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, that won't be necessary, I consider the parental release
      satisfied," said Harrod. Draco put away his mirror while Harrod
      read further down the list. "Ah, I'll also need approval from a
      member of the Wizengamot." He smiled apologetically. Not because of
      the protocol, but because of his deception. Harrod felt guilty
      stringing along the boy, who had been so polite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you really wish me to disturb the Lady Malfoy again?" said
      Draco Malfoy, reaching back into his cloak.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, no, of course not. I'm sorry, I should have been clearer.
      The visit must be <em class="calibre7">seconded</em> by another member of the
      Wizengamot. Technically the Lady Malfoy made the request for you,
      so she could not second it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Honestly, I don't remember any of that from the class, but I
      suppose they don't mention all the details <em class="calibre7">you</em> have to
      keep up with. And, if I'm being honest, I fall asleep in Professor
      Binn's class fairly often. He's not interesting, like Professor
      Asimov. But that does seem like the sort of thing they'd require, I
      mean who can forget the rulings of the third session of the
      one-hundred-ninety-ninth Wizengamot reforming Auror
      Interrogations?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">During this speech the boy had walked back halfway towards the
      door and taken out his wand, which set of a minor panic although
      that was silly. <em class="calibre7">No twelve year old boy would attack someone in
      the Ministry of Magic, that would be foolhardy</em>. Draco Malfoy
      made no move towards Harrod, he'd been talking to him at an angle,
      and he lowered his stance slightly and moved his wand with precise
      whipping motions and Harrod - who didn't know the one-hundred and
      ninety-ninth Wizengamot from the whatever number they were
      currently on - did know a bit about Auror Interrogations. He'd gone
      through one as part of his hiring and that boy hadn't just been
      spouting gibberish: Auror interrogations could be overruled - or at
      least delayed - by members in good standing, as long as you had a
      second and a Harrod felt a nervous dread. This boy, barely half his
      age, had a casual command of facts he shouldn't know. But once
      Draco started his spell Harrod's nervousness transformed to
      surprise. <em class="calibre7">He can't possibly be...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Draco Malfoy cast <em class="calibre7">"Expecto
      Patronum!"<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A silvery snake – Harrod wasn't sure of the type, but it looked
      large and hungry – floated just above the ground in front of Draco,
      and Professor What's-his-name took a keen interest in it, too. He'd
      seemed surprised, and taken a shuffle step backwards before
      recovering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please go to Augusta Longbottom, give her my respects, and
      kindly request her to join me in the Ministry of Magic. She should
      still be in Diagon Alley, where we met at that small gypsy bistro.
      She should be finishing up with lunch shortly, but if she is still
      eating she should by all means finish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake nodded sharply and slithered away at astonishing
      speed. Draco put his wand back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are the other requirements, Mr. Realgar?" Draco had
      pronounced his name correctly, Ree-Owl-Gahr. Most people got it
      wrong on the first time. "It occurs to me that we have ten minutes
      or so before the message reaches Lady Longbottom, and it might be
      another thirty minutes. It would save considerable time if you
      would kindly enumerate all the requirements now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, Mr. Malfoy," Harrod said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Lord</em>." The voice was still high, a boy's voice, not a
      mans. Draco hadn't dropped it into a false bass voice, like
      children sometimes did. The voice was no colder than before. There
      was no acting in it, no drama. But the word hung out there. Harrod
      cast his glance to the Professor, and the man was looking at both
      of them in open bewilderment. Harrod could press the point. Draco
      Malfoy was not technically of age and while some students had
      achieved their majority by appearing before the Wizengamot over the
      summer, he had not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harrod did not feel inclined to press the point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lord Malfoy, I'm afraid there are <em class="calibre7">extensive</em>
      requirements."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Understandable. You must follow protocol and I hardly blame you
      for that. Exactly how many requirements? If you would let me peruse
      them that would save time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid that's against policy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then please just enumerate them, it may be that I've forgotten
      something although I think you'll find I'm reasonably well informed
      about this. But if I did forget something, I'd like to know so that
      when I come back I possess a full and accurate list of what is
      required. It seems foolish to not simply show me the list, since
      I'll have to fulfill all of these requirements in any case. I can
      read it and let you do some useful work in the meantime. I have
      plenty of time, and your shift doesn't end for five hours."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harrod's mouth felt dry, and he cast around his desk for his
      glass of water and took a sip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I can ask, what's so important? Why do you need to go into
      the Hall of Prophecy?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harrod could see Draco considering it. He'd have never asked
      under regular circumstances. Harrod worried that something in his
      demeanor revealed that he was grasping at straws. He took another
      sip of water to hide his nervousness, and the Professor tilted his
      head. Now that Harrod thought about it, the entire setup was odd.
      What was a young student doing out of Hogwarts during term? <em class="calibre7">How
      had he managed that?</em> And trying to be the first outsider to go
      to the Hall in centuries (<em class="calibre7">Was he the first?</em> The protocol
      existed, and if any family could bend the rules and get access, a
      Noble and Most Ancient House certainly could). If Harrod could just
      slip away he'd send out queries or call in a senior clerk and make
      this someone else's problem, but he dare not leave. While thinking,
      he considered the Professor. The man must be the new Professor of
      Muggle Studies, everyone knew Gilderoy Lockhart and this man
      clearly wasn't him. Why did a Slytherin, and a Malfoy at that,
      associate with him?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And since when could a Slytherin summon a Patronus?</em>
      Harrod gulped his water. Lord Draco Malfoy apparently made up his
      mind and strode back to the reception desk, his right hand held up
      in a fist. No, not quite a fist, his hand was slightly open, at
      shoulder height like a salute and spoke firmly, in a commanding
      tone:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Sigil Prodi!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And a cane appeared in his hand, a silver snake head peering
      over the top of Draco Malfoy's grasping fist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Harrod Xavier Realgar, <em class="calibre7">this</em> is the cane of Lucius
      Malfoy, son of Abraxis Lords of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
      Malfoy and even if you didn't recognize me I can tell by your eyes
      you certainly recognize <em class="calibre7">it</em>. I shouldn't be holding it.
      This Sigil should not answer my commands <em class="calibre7">but it does</em>
      because Voldemort murdered Lucius Malfoy last summer, and now I am
      Lord Malfoy. I was almost murdered last spring by Voldemort or one
      of his agents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harrod's eyes followed the head of the cane that Draco Malfoy
      had been slowly lowering to the ground, moving it gently into
      position as if it were not some relic of power, but just a normal
      walking stick. Harrod would later swear to everyone who would
      listen that the cane's eyes followed his and that they narrowed
      slightly, with growing anger, as Malfoy spoke. The dread that
      Harrod Xavier Realgar felt in his stomach increased as the meaning
      of the words and righteous indignation of the tone made Harrod draw
      into himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I know that there was a Prophecy about Voldemort's return,
      because I heard a part of it before Headmaster Albus Dumbledore
      prevented the student body from hearing the rest. The Wizengamot
      may have quietly ignored the Ministry's blatant violations of our
      laws for centuries, but it ends now. I am allowed to hear the full
      prophecy regarding the monster that tried to destroy my family. I
      am allowed into the Hall of Prophecy by the laws and traditions of
      Wizarding England set forth by Merlin himself and I will not be
      denied."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I'm the villain,</em> Harrod thought. He could no longer
      meet Draco's gaze, which had never wavered from Harrod's eyes. He
      looked at the floor then saw Draco glance towards the soft
      footfalls, like a rustling cat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco looked back to Harrod and said, softly. "<em class="calibre7">And I am not
      alone</em>. Ah, Madam Longbottom," Draco's tone shifted back to the
      pleasant boy he'd been a moment ago as he turned turning towards a
      witch who looked like she still belonged in Hogwarts herself, "I do
      apologize, but I require a second, or perhaps a witness, in order
      to comply with all these regulations."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
