<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 49: Contingencies, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 49: Contingencies</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Update -</strong> The original version of this
      chapter had duplicated scenes from Ch. 45. This was a mere
      oversight on my part, not some clever scheme.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">March 6th</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've already explored this area, Draco," Harry said, as they
      trudged up another flight of stairs. "We're heading towards the
      defense lecture hall, but if you go up the eighth flight of stairs
      you go back to my office. I pass this area every day." Draco
      nodded, a few steps ahead of Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd been walking for a bit, Draco said he had something he
      wanted to show Harry. A secret room as a reward for Harry showing
      Draco his office, and this was the rare Saturday afternoon that had
      nothing scheduled. No Quidditch game, and the N.E.W.T. armies were
      battling in the streets of Hogsmeade so nothing worth spectating.
      Harry had considered pulling rank to go watch that battle. During
      negotiations with the mayor Professor Lockhart had graciously
      granted the residents permission to stun or harass any annoying
      students. Harry felt like it would be hysterical. But he'd also
      wanted to talk with Draco, who seemed pleased to have discovered a
      secret Harry didn't know. They passed the Barnabas the Barmy
      tapestry and then Draco veered over to a door that Harry had never
      noticed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco swung the door opened and bowed dramatically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How. About, A nice game. Of Chess?" Draco said with no
      inflection, no emotion. Harry wandered into the majestic ballroom,
      the walls were covered with bookshelves, and there were small
      coffee tables and chairs all around the room, but the center of the
      ballroom was covered in an elegant eight by eight checkerboard,
      with chess pieces standing almost as tall as Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter chuckled. "You know, if you told me I'd sometimes
      regret how popular Muggle Movie Night has become, I wouldn't have
      believed you. Muggle or Wizard?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco dropped his robotic impression, and switched to a formal,
      fluid voice that Harry called <em class="calibre7">Draco's playwright</em> "By
      Custom, By Law and by the 2nd ruling of the 18th Wizengamot, the
      challenged party in the duel gets the right to choose." Draco
      walked inside the room and the door shut behind him. The torches on
      the wall were far enough away that the lighting barely flickered,
      just gave a warm glow, like soft incandescent lighting, only
      slightly orange.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've become quite good at Muggle Chess," Harry said. "You
      could be great at it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now Draco chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People like you and me, we'll never get great <em class="calibre7">at
      chess</em>. We have natural talent and enjoy it, but the effort
      required is a gigantic waste. So we just spend the rare hour or two
      playing to relax. And I've found the perfect place, admit it."
      Draco had taken out both chess sets and placed them on the floor
      between himself and Harry, who both sat on the ground, cross
      legged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"OK, OK. I've got to admit, this place is great. Muggle Chess,
      then. Wizard chess would hardly be a contest for you, not anymore.
      Although if these were neutral pieces." Draco walked over to a
      smaller Wizard Chess set - there were several smaller board
      scattered around the main board – and took out his wand and waved
      it at the set "<em class="calibre7">Leviludis!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pieces floated up, complaining and scrabbling on the board
      for purchase. Draco just shushed them quietly, like a gentle
      mother. Harry watched Draco grabbed two pawns out of mid-air, one
      white and one black, and put them behind his back, mixing them up.
      He stuck his hands out, and Harry pointed to Draco's left hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco opened it to reveal a black pawn. He placed both small
      pawns on the board. There were two high chairs off to the side of
      the main board and Draco climbed into the chair slightly on the
      white side, while Harry climbed into the other on the black side.
      The small set floated up alongside with Draco, possibly just
      attached, and he pulled it out of the air and set it down on the
      table. Draco adjusted his spell so that small board floated,
      dropping slowly back to the table between them as though it were
      underwater. Or on the moon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco picked up a small conical megaphone and said "Pawn to
      Queen Four" and the large pawn down below them slid smoothly two
      spaces forward. Harry had lent Draco a book, a collection of games
      from an early tournament to select a challenger for the world
      championship and Draco had been slowly going over the games with
      Gregory and Harry in his rare break from studying or (Harry knew),
      plotting to break into the Hall of Prophecies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Those games had subtleties they didn't understand, even with the
      grandmaster commentary, but Draco had picked up a feel for how
      different opening moves led to different games, and he preferred
      the more subtle queen pawn openings. Draco passed the megaphone to
      Harry and he chose his move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They quickly played the first few moves, passing the megaphone
      back and forth, and settled into an Old Indian Opening. After
      Harry's fifth move Draco paused, they'd gotten past a position
      Draco recognized and could just play from memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco spent several minutes thinking, but he talked while he
      thought. It was rude to talk during your opponents turn, so
      conversations between the two were like extended soliloquies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This opening reminds me of a game from your book. Great game.
      Black sacrificed his queen for only a pawn, but it pulled the white
      king half way up the board and really exposed him, and then twenty
      moves later Black won. It's clear, once you play through it, that
      he hadn't seen the winning position, Black played a few waiting
      moves just shuffling pieces back and forth, until he saw the
      winning play. But the sacrifice gave him position and tempo."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco exchanged his queen pawn for Harry's king pawn. Harry
      could retake with either a pawn or a knight. He considered the
      implications of each move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remember that game. It made an impression on me, too. But
      with grandmasters you really only get great games when the position
      is so complicated that neither one of them can see how it ends."
      Harry recaptured with his pawn. The captured pieces slid gracefully
      off the board, other pieces moving aside, and then kept going until
      they were up against one of the walls. You could still see them, if
      you knew where to look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah," said Draco. "If they both agreed that one position was
      good for one side, the other would naturally avoid that position.
      So we only witness a great game by the masters when it's nebulous.
      Most of their excellence is above our heads. It takes a rare
      position too complicated for even them before we witness fireworks
      on the board."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, it's like the <em class="calibre7">Bludger</em> simulation. You avoid a
      situation where you can lose. If everything goes well with your
      plan, there's nothing to watch."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco and Harry continued to array their pieces as the opening
      transitioned to midgame, each trying to get more mobility. They
      challenged each other for the center in a slow build up. During
      Harry's turn Draco still watched the board spread out below them,
      but he also took the Wizard chess set beside him and balanced the
      board on a pawn. It would have been impossible, but the levitation
      spell made it barely work. The chess pieces complained, and they
      formed a rough circle around the center of the board to keep it
      from toppling. It wasn't a regular chess position, pieces were on
      two squares or more, and all mixed up, but Draco kept tinkering
      with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry tried to ignore it and made his move, ordering a pawn
      forward to storm the kingside. Draco would have counter-attacking
      possibilities if he exchanged pawns and opened it up, or he could
      lock the position but be cramped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco flicked the wizard chess set's side at the corner, and the
      board slowly spun like a top while he thought for several minutes,
      pausing to flick the wizard board. Beside him, a queen complained
      loudly about the treatment – calling Draco 'a cretinous cur' –
      apparently comfortable talking back since Draco was treating that
      set like a toy, not a game. Draco picked up the megaphone and
      captured Harry's pawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had expected that, neither one of them liked a position
      where you had few choices, and he'd planned his response but it
      didn't hurt to double check. The problem with chess is that you had
      to visualize the position and as you saw further ahead you
      sometimes misplaced a piece mentally. Some players, probably all
      the great ones, could see the position perfectly in their head.
      Harry's visualization wasn't perfect. Harry flicked the wizard
      chess board a few times then confirmed his analysis and made his
      move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. "I see your point about the <em class="calibre7">Bludger</em>,"
      Draco said, "but in real life it probably happens more often."
      While he was talking Draco reached up and snatched the silver
      knight off the slowly spinning board. The board lurched wildly, but
      all of the pieces took a few steps around, shifting their way as
      they shouted advice to each other. After a minute, the board's
      wobbling subsided. "After all, in the real world everyone has their
      own view of the situation. And their own information. If something
      strange happens, the others compensate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco counter-attacked, as expected. It was a complex position
      and Harry fell into a deep thought. After a few minutes Draco
      started spinning the toy between them, poking at pieces with his
      finger and watching board wobble as the pieces adjusted. Normally
      it was the right of the person thinking to talk or fidget, so as
      not to distract the other, but Harry had taken a long time (by
      their standards) to move, so he didn't press the point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry picked up his megaphone to make his move when suddenly his
      robes started to constrict and changed color to white. Harry saw
      Draco flick his wand and say <em class="calibre7">Somnium</em>.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">March 7th</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry heard them coming down the stairs. He was in a basement …
      somewhere. He didn't recognize it in the hours he'd been awake.
      Harry grunted as loudly as he could. He was bundled into an
      Acromantula web, naked except for underwear, trussed tightly onto a
      cot. His eyes were uncovered, at least. He didn't know how long
      he'd been awake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Since Draco stunned him.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd used the time to try to figure out what was going on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The 'how' part didn't take much effort. The robes he'd been
      wearing were a gift from Draco, and Draco had studied fixed
      transfiguration. He could switch his own clothes from suit to robes
      and back. Presumably he'd made one set of robes out of web and had
      given them to Harry at Christmas. Or switched them out at a later
      time. Harry might have been able to win a duel with Draco, but
      being ambushed while in a constricting web, he hadn't had a
      chance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A part of Harry admired the elegance of the ambush, while he
      struggled in the web. But his struggles had merely confirmed that
      boys his age couldn't fight their way out of strong webs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had made his move now, but what move?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The real question was 'why?'</em> Slytherin said inside his
      head.<em class="calibre7"><br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Had Draco done this as part of an elaborate scheme to test
      Peverell?</em> Gryffindor offered, but the rest of the voices
      shouted him down. <em class="calibre7">Well, we can hope</em>, Gryffindor said
      quietly. But Harry knew it was wishful thinking. It lacked all
      sense of proportion. Draco might overreach when provoked – he'd
      done just last year when torturing Harry - but he wouldn't spend
      ten galleons to win a Knut. Draco hadn't done this out of anger, or
      fear, or pride. The planning clearly marked this as a plot, or
      contingency plan, and nothing had changed recently enough to
      warrant springing the trap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Nothing you're aware of</em>, <em class="calibre7">anyway,</em> said
      Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Had Draco finally decided we're Voldemort?</em> said
      Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That risk had always existed, that Draco would reach the wrong
      conclusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">No,</em> answer Slytherin. <em class="calibre7">If he had we'd be dead right
      now. Or worse.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's voices bickered amongst themselves and Harry - or at
      least, the internal Harry supervisor voice - went off in another
      direction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Was this some lesson?</em> Draco and Harry had taught each
      other lessons, and if so, this would be memorable. As the minutes
      stretched into hours that seemed less and less likely. Harry's
      stomach knotted itself. Harry started reaching out from the obvious
      facts and cast his memory back into the previous semester. The
      previous summer. Last year. Nothing came up. Perhaps he could ask
      Draco when he got out, but Harry didn't imagine Draco would be
      talkative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">If I can even find him. Draco had spent last summer looking
      for Snape.</em> Harry and Draco had discussed strategies and steps
      necessary to avoid being discovered. Harry didn't know how long
      he'd been out, but if Draco didn't want to be found, Harry couldn't
      find him. The more worrying thought was that if Draco didn't want
      Harry to be found ... although he had a few contingencies, but they
      might take a while.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Had Draco discovered Harry's betrayals?</em> That seemed
      likely. Moody had read Draco's mind under orders, and now Harry
      regretted not having him dig deeper. If Draco had discovered that
      fact, although it wasn't at all clear how, he may consider it an
      act of war.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And in the real world everyone has their own view of the
      situation. And their own information." Harry remembered Draco's
      voice, during the chess game. <em class="calibre7">Had he misjudged Draco so badly?
      Had Draco misjudged him?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spent his time reviewing everything he knew, and kept
      coming to the same conclusion. <em class="calibre7">I need more information. I'm
      missing a fact.</em> He then considered the details about more. Why
      had Draco used that room to ambush Harry? <em class="calibre7">Well, it would
      naturally intrigue me. The ambush over the game of chess would
      appeal to Draco's sense of style, but he'd ignore that if
      necessary.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had decided that the most likely reason was that the room
      was out of the way when he heard Gregory's voice shouting from the
      top of the stairs, "I see him" and Hermione and Gregory raced down
      the stairs. It took them a while to cut Harry out of the web, he'd
      lost the sense of time. Harry could see that Hermione had been
      crying. Gregory's face was set in stone. <em class="calibre7">Just like when he
      rescued Draco</em>. Hermione blushed when the web finally parted,
      but Harry just reached up and ripped the webbing off his mouth
      "What's the situation?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said, "We're … not sure. We repelled the attack on
      Peverell. The chalice is safe. But there's a lot of damage, and not
      just there, but Hogwarts, too." Harry noticed that her thoughts
      weren't nearly as organized as usual. He realized the implication
      right as she said, "At least three Aurors are dead, and some
      students, too. They think they can save Mad-Eye. I was too late,
      Harry, I'm sorry ... Draco probably thought he was protecting me
      but he should have known ... "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where's Draco?" Harry asked, and Hermione sucked in her breath
      and bit her lip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory shook his head then turned away and went back up the
      stairs. Harry looked around, he didn't recognize the room. It
      looked like a small basement apartment, with some goods stored
      along the walls. There was only a picture, but the picture showed
      what looked to be a closed cave mouth, rocks jumbled all around the
      front, perched precariously along the frame. Harry start towards
      the stairs but stopped. There was a second cot lined up beside the
      wall and set carefully on top of it was a chess set. A muggle chess
      set, small, made with light and dark brown wood. All of the pieces
      were set up in the opening position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except both kings had been knocked over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stopped biting her lip. "Draco and Neville are dead,
      Harry."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> –I had considered a final exam,
      much like in HPMOR, but honestly I couldn't create a compelling one
      in any case, Draco's final exam would be composed by Lucius, not
      Voldemort. You have as much information as Harry (more), but you
      don't necessarily have all the pieces to fill in all the blanks.
      But you do have enough information to understand what Draco hoped
      to achieve. Ignore the tactics, focus on strategy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A (guest!) reviewer on last chapter mentioned Apollo Robbins,
      specifically his TED talk and how it applied to attention. That's a
      good catch, one that Harry would point out, except that Apollo
      wasn't famous yet. Apollo Robbins is a magician/pickpocket (with at
      least one published neuropsychology paper co-authorship!) who is an
      expert on exploiting attention. He likens attention to a security
      guard watching a row of monitors, but who can only focus on one or
      two at a time. His TED talk ("The Art of Misdirection") is one of
      the legitimately brilliant (as compared to "just interesting")
      lectures I've seen and well worth the ten minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Also, on a related note, I like reviews.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The game discussed was Averbakh-Kotov, Zurich Candidates
      Tournament, 1953.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Update to the Hot Hand "Fallacy" -</strong> The Wall
      Street Journal had an article saying that Hot Hands actually do
      exist, courtesy of Adam Sanjuro, Joshua Miller, and some really
      unintuitive math. FF doesn't like links, but that should be enough
      to google if you care.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
