<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 50: Thirty-Four Years Later, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s18" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 50: Thirty-Four Years Later</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - Based on criticism, it has been
      suggested that I remove this chapter and repost it later. For now,
      let me just say that it is entirely skippable. It takes place 34
      years later (at the title states), and the next chapter returns to
      the 'present.' Many readers have complained. For now, I am leaving
      it. If you do skip it, it should be obvious when you'll need to
      come back and read it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Summer had lingered, but by the time that Harry James Pevel
      crossed the threshold to Platform Nine and Three Quarters fall had
      arrived. The muggle world felt cool and serene and not at all
      humid, and the temperature dropped lower still when he crossed the
      threshold, trailing his children. His youngest - nine with unkempt
      blonde hair that resisted all attempts at combing with a quiet
      defiance - broke away from the family while Luna stared at the
      steam coming from the locomotive engine, entranced and lost in
      private memory. She recovered, squeezing Harry's hand and then Luna
      dashed forward calling "Petunia! Petunia!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had originally taken her name, but Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres-Lovegood had been a mouthful, so he'd simply
      changed it to Pevel. That contained all the sounds in the right
      order and also honoured and symbolically linked him with the
      Peverells, an added bonus. Technically he kept the name Harry
      Potter, since he was the Lord of the Most Noble and Ancient House
      of Potter, but that didn't really matter much anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But his biological parents had probably cared, and some factions
      of wizarding society still placed stock on these things, so Harry
      sometimes used his formal title, especially during contentious
      Wizengamot sessions. But most days he was simply Harry Pevel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around the station, at all the children running
      back and forth, gossiping, hugging, trading stories of their summer
      vacation, and otherwise acting like children. Well, like normal
      children, anyway. After his first year he'd stopped coming early to
      the train rides, because the pressure of being The Boy Who LIved
      made it an exhausting experience, although he would always remember
      the first train ride and meeting Hermione. After his second year,
      Harry couldn't afford to waste a full day going to and from
      Hogwarts each semester, and had simply skipped the trips
      completely. He'd never been one to enjoy crowds of people, in any
      case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A familiar couple waved and Harry waved back. Harry's middle son
      called out to them. "Hi Aunt Hermione! Uncle Ron!" Michael ran off
      and hugged his aunt, then went to play with young Draco Weasley.
      Harry started to head over to them, quietly flanked by Mr. Goyle
      and Mr. Crabbe. Harry could ignore the rest of the parents on the
      platform, confident that they were scanning the crowd for threats.
      Gregory had argued against a public appearance, but Harry had
      overruled them. <em class="calibre7">Correction,</em> said Ravenclaw, <em class="calibre7">Gregory
      acquiesced.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't been physically attacked in nearly two decades.
      They still worried. In many ways they still blamed themselves for
      not seeing the attacks coming in the first place, even though there
      had been no earthly way for them to know, during the early
      years.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down at his oldest, who had trailed along beside
      him. "Why don't you join the other children?" Harry didn't hide the
      pang he felt letting him go off, even thought it was only to
      Hogwarts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had scheduled Albus for the first train. Hogwarts required
      two trains now, class sizes being so much larger. Harry could have
      taken him personally, but wouldn't dream of denying his son the
      full experience of the Hogwarts he loved. Albus had asked why they
      needed a train to get to Dad's office and Harry had started to
      explain, but had just shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if they don't think I'm smart, Dad? What if they don't put
      me in Ravenclaw?" Albus said, with the slightest hint of
      desperation in his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry crouched down so that he was looking up at his son and
      stared at his beautiful blue eyes. "Why are you worried about
      that?" Harry's long white beard touched the ground. At first, the
      beard had started as an affectation, just playing the part for the
      country of the wise old wizard he'd hoped to become someday. Now,
      it seemed natural, and he rarely thought about it, but he
      instinctively scooped it up off the concrete. Albus met his eyes,
      and Harry saw the worry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because … because! I'm not you, Dad! Everyone says you're the
      most clever, that you invented cleverness, and they'll expect me
      to... you know." Albus hyperventilated slightly, before getting his
      breathing under control. "I can't live up to it..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You, Albus Quirinus Pevel are named after two great men.
      Quirinius Quirrel made Offense against the Dark Arts what it is
      today. He was a Slytherin. And Albus Dumbledore had both my jobs
      and did them both better. And he was a <em class="calibre7">Gryffindor."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus gulped a breath. "A Gryffindor? Really? But they ..." He
      stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "The houses show your most dominant trait,
      or the one you must wish to improve. But no person can be reduced
      to a single adjective. The houses are only a shorthand, and then
      are great wizards and witches in every house. Remember what I say.
      <em class="calibre7">If I can see farther than those who came before me</em>..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">It's only because I stand on the shoulders of giants. Not
      literal ones. Figurative.</em>" Albus said, finishing the quote. He
      hugged his father and ran after his mother to say goodbye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione walked over, looking completely normal, although she'd
      cut her hair short over the summer, Harry noted. She'd managed to
      completely hide her glamour and had even gone so far as to adjust
      her appearance to look ... mundane. But even before she'd
      <em class="calibre7">deglamoured</em> with her self-invented potion (the final
      ingredient was a claw from a Blast-ended Skrewt) the
      Girl-Who-Revived didn't draw much attention these days. Hermione
      rarely did anything dangerous and - as far as the public knew -
      hadn't done anything important in fifteen years. If you'd seen her
      as a teenager, like Harry had, you'd have imagined her as a a movie
      star by the time she grew up. In actuality, she didn't stand out or
      turn heads, and that was mostly by design. She'd had enough with
      well wishers and followers by the time they'd turned twenty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't really see the woman standing in front of him as
      she was. In his mind, she was always a teenager. He knew that was a
      flaw, but it was one he preferred to live with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had known instantly that Draco's Diary, not his Letter,
      was the final gambit. Draco's way of ensuring Hermione Granger
      <em class="calibre7">helped</em> Harry Potter, but always at arm's length. At a
      distance. As a friend. When he'd finally gotten up his courage and
      asked her on a date, Hermione agreed they could be more without
      risking the world. <em class="calibre7">But we never will be,</em> she'd said. If
      Draco had been around, one of them would have ended up with
      Hermione. But with Draco gone...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry reminded Hermione too much of those they'd lost. He could
      move past it, but Hermione hadn't. She felt much more deeply than
      he did, a side effect of his coldness. Harry experienced great joy
      and great loss and felt pain for the damage he'd done. He knew
      about countless millions he hadn't saved, but lingering on it
      wasn't useful and didn't help them. Harry planned as carefully as
      he could, but emotionally lived in each movement, then moved on. At
      least, he usually did, but seeing Hermione reminded him of his
      regrets. And he knew the same was true for her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">My joys and pain echo constantly</em>, she'd said all those
      years ago. By way of apology.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry never understood what she saw in Ron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the hugs and handshakes Hermione pulled Harry aside and
      whispered "I think we should delay repealing the Statute."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Pevel sighed internally then put on his finest wise face,
      his Albus Dumbledore #2, "We've been over this. If we miss this
      Convocation, we'll have to wait five years for the next one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are immortal, Harry. There's no rush."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"People will die." Harry didn't cry, not any more, when
      considering the price his caution had cost. They both knew he felt
      it, that the disapproval in his voice was real. "What reason do you
      have?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's Xare, he's looking a bit peaky. I don't think he'll be
      available, should a problem arise. I'll have limited tactical
      mobility with all the warding going on." Harry could sense Gregory,
      just two feet behind him, dividing his attention. Vincent hadn't
      stopped scanning the crowd, but this was now a security matter and
      so now they were splitting duties and paying attention to Harry's
      conversation, since it was no longer just politics. Gregory and
      Vincent would discuss it amongst themselves, later. <em class="calibre7">They might
      even ask my opinion,</em> Harry thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who would attack us, Hermione? I think we've run out of Dark
      Wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione interrupted. "Sethra Lavode..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry inter-re-upted. "Yes, she lives; but stuck in her mountain
      for a few hundred years. After that? <em class="calibre7">I think</em> she'll be
      impressed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, doesn't it seem, I don't know, convenient? How
      everything is working, how the opposition has melted away, to
      finally be unified after all of that political maneuvering. All the
      obstacles, all the delays."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it doesn't. We spent decades arranging this. How much pain
      did you go through, dying all those times? How often did we have to
      prove, time and again, that I wasn't Voldemort. How many did I fail
      to save? How many shadows we jumped at, just to make sure there was
      no threat. Now - finally! - we're gaining numbers. We aren't alone.
      We've pushed the rationality of graduating classes at least one
      standard deviation to the right. This generation is firmly behind
      us, they've moved the needle! Albus fears he's not smart enough!
      <em class="calibre7">Not smart enough,</em> Hermione. And you know he'd have done
      well, been a General by 3rd year, back in the day."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down. "Now he's just an average wizard boy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry saw that Hermione knew how much it hurt him to admit that.
      He hoped she knew how much wisdom he'd gained over the last decade.
      Draco had been right in this, that for too long Harry's strength
      had been its own corresponding weakness. Now having his own family
      had provided balance and given Harry a lot of practical insight
      into how other people reacted to him. <em class="calibre7">Draco came so close to
      being right about everything.</em> Harry realized he'd drifted into
      thought and refocused on Hermione, as the prefects starting herding
      the first years onto the train.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Hermione, it does not appear convenient to me at all. And
      once I finish this task, I will have time to rescue Dumbledore, and
      beg his forgiveness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The last part is irrelevant, and you know it..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter shrugged, conceding the point, but Hermione knew
      what he'd meant. By unspoken agreement, they agreed to let work
      wait until family was gone and the rushed around the station,
      hugging kids and greeting old friends. They'd save their
      strategizing and politicking for a few hours, once they were back
      at the office. They'd saved most of the Wizarding world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Soon, they'd save everyone else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All was well.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note -</strong> If you read the previous
      chapter during the first day it was posted, two sections were
      (near) duplicates of part of Chapter 45 and have been removed.
      There was no grand plan on that, it was just an oversight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And yes, I'm going to go back to the 'present' in the next
      chapter. (I'm not a monster).</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
