<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 52: Fully Awake, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s20" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 52: Fully Awake</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Excerpts from on-scene depositions taken immediately after the
      attack on Peverell Hospital on the morning of March 7th, 1993.
      Recorded by TrueQuill(tm).</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Igor Karkaroff (3 drops Vs)</em> - "Right when we came in
      some Auror threw the Chalice and told us to take it and go, just
      not to hurt the patients. I killed him and continued with the
      assault. It was an obvious distraction. Aurors that well armed
      doesn't just give up right away, even in a hostage situation. No,
      Lockhart didn't tell me the Chalice was a fake before. Honestly,
      it's an insulting plan."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Auror Alexander Williams (1 drop Vs)</em> - "And then he
      went flying past me, casting Auror grade spells! I knew he'd been
      unconscious earlier, but that Malfoy boy was awake and fighting
      like a demon. Totally fearless. I can't understand it. No, I
      <span>wasn't</span> Confounded, I'm telling you..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Phillip Cerci (3 drops Vs)</em> - "...well, we saw Malfoy's
      body on the way in, the Auror's probably dropped him in the initial
      attack. We took up a defensive position against the hallway to
      Hogwarts, there were professors behind us right away. No idea how
      they caught us. Adolphus said your backups were crossing the wards
      into Hogwarts, so we had to defend to give the others time to take
      the Chalice so it was busy. I was right next to Selwyn and Septavia
      got killed early in the cross fire, and damned if not a few minutes
      later Malfoy charges in, cusses out Selwyn. Actually cusses him
      out. Selwyn's killed for less, but the boy probably thought it was
      Igor and he's screaming about how we screwed up and searching for
      Septavia's wand, then he disappeared to help get the Stone, and
      several minutes later it came flying out, and I thought we'd done
      it..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Auror 'Mike' Li (1 drop Vs)</em> - "...I thought we were
      dead when the Fiendfyre started. Backup instantly cut off and the
      walls were melting. I'd followed protocol, but after another minute
      we're out gunned, Bahry's dead, and I'm cut off from everyone else.
      Just me, a few patients, and the unconscious Malfoy. Someone, maybe
      Prabat, had moved the civilians away from the Fiendfyre. I thought
      I was dead. Ennervating Malfoy saved my life. "</p>
      <p class="calibre6">.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Igor Karkaroff (3 drop Vs)</em> - "Why did we fail? We lost
      the element of surprise and our plan fell apart, and it was chaos.
      We almost pulled it off anyway. If he [Draco Malfoy] hadn't died,
      we might have..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hermione Granger (1 drop Vs)</em> - "Because he was
      <em class="calibre7">Impieriused</em>! I don't know who did it. A professor
      obviously, Hogwart's has wards. Draco wouldn't help them. I've
      heard the other Aurors, Draco fought against the attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Interrogator</em> - How do you explain the fact that Draco
      went through the Thief's Downfall, which ends any <em class="calibre7">Imperius</em>
      and then did not raise the alarm and spent 10 minutes scouting the
      hospital.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hermione Granger (1 drop Vs)</em> - "I can't. I need to go
      find Harry. I've given my statement. Let go of me, this is
      important. (Shouting): Headmistress! ... I'll ... don't ... let go!
      Now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Interrogator</em> - "[Redacted, incivility related]!
      (gasping) Stop her! Stop her!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">[End Transcript]</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter opened his eyes and stared blankly up at the
      ceiling. The dark world came into focus, the only light a fiery
      chicken-like head staring down at him. The phoenix crooned softly,
      wings spread wide as if to shield the boy below him from the flaws
      of the world dropping on him like rain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fawkes," Harry croaked, "Where were you on the morning of March
      7th?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes looked at him, twisting his head quizzically from side to
      side, all the while singing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good Morning, Mr. Potter." Harry glanced around. It was night
      time in the Hogwarts infirmary. He didn't see anyone else around,
      although several of the nearby beds were occupied. The closest was
      occupied by a rather large body, as far as Harry could tell. An
      adult, face hidden under blankets. Harry pulled himself up into a
      sitting position, and stared at the man sitting in a small wooden
      chair beside his bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Asimov, what day is it? Why are you here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's the morning of the thirteenth. Almost five in the morning.
      I was keeping your father company, but Madam Pomfrey slipped him
      something in his water to help him sleep. I suspect if he hadn't
      taken it they'd have done something more ... drastic. You aren't
      allowed non-family visitors, really, but they allowed me as a guest
      of your parents, since I'm mostly harmless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. After a second ambush you didn't have to be
      Mad-Eye Moody to restrict access, and a squib professor was a safe
      bedside companion. Particularly if you had Fawkes to raise the
      alarm if he tried to smother you with a pillow. Harry noticed a
      folded newspaper sticking out from underneath Professor Asimov's
      chair. There was a glass of water on the bedside table and Harry
      drank it greedily.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can I read that, Professor?" Harry said, pointing to the
      newspaper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had to sneak this in, you know. They don't want your parents
      to know anything and I think they're more than a touch worried
      about what you'll do when you see it." While he spoke Professor
      Asimov took the folded up newspaper and handed it over. "Still, now
      that I've talked to your Father I can guess that it was you who got
      me this job. And saved my life. The Headmistress wouldn't have had
      the faintest clue who I am, would she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry snatched the paper. "So, Dad talked your ear off, did
      he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, he didn't have anyone else to talk to, but yes, he did.
      He said very flattering things, but of course he's a Professor - a
      real one - and I'm just an author who got rescued by magicians, so
      he could tell me some interesting stories..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Professor Asimov kept talking Harry scanned yesterday's
      copy of the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em>. There were editorials accusing
      him of being Voldemort. He'd expected that, Draco's plan had
      crystallized in his head the instant he'd seen the image of Fred
      and George's map projected for all of Slytherin House (and Narcissa
      Malfoy) to see. Surprisingly there were a number of more moderate
      editorials, saying that even if Harry Potter was a soul-copy, the
      fault rested with the government officials who 'aided and abetted
      him,' and had proven themselves untrustworthy because of their lack
      of due diligence. These editorials referred to the prior Daily
      Prophet's stunning expose on Harry Potter's influence on Hogwarts
      and the Ministry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were calls for investigations and further demands to open
      the Hall of Prophecy once and for all to resolve this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco, or his accomplices, had set up a debate with two
      sides:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">EITHER</em> Harry Potter was Voldemort and should be killed
      <em class="calibre7">OR</em> Harry Potter probably wasn't actually Voldemort, but
      just to be safe should be kept well away from the halls of power,
      and anyone who had ever helped him should be stripped of all
      titles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Draco framed the debate so that even actual innocence
      implies guilt,</em> Harry's inner Slytherin whistled
      appreciatively. <em class="calibre7">He's arguing that they should have known you
      were a risk and kept you at arms length.</em> After a second Harry
      realized that both of his inner voices were assuming Draco was
      still alive, but the probability of that had ... well, not
      drastically increased. But gone up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The attack had been well planned. Narcissa Malfoy had recognized
      the name Tom Riddle. <em class="calibre7">Of course she shouldn't have trusted the
      information</em>, said Ravenclaw.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But she was in a foul state of mind, no doubt,</em> said
      Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most importantly, there were a bunch of witnesses who probably
      didn't even register what they'd seen, and almost certainly had not
      registered it's import. Perhaps someone had noted that the
      Maurader's Map displayed everyone's name right but Harry, but
      they'd probably been looking at Harry dying, or Vincent and Crabbe
      attacking Professor Slughorn, or later on at Narcissa raging. They
      probably saw the name <em class="calibre7">Tom Riddle,</em> but it didn't register.
      And in any case the map display was used for simulations. Why, it
      routinely generated lies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would never occur to an Auror to obliviate or memory charm
      the students, and the information needed to determine it was
      necessary wouldn't have made it up the chain. There were ways it
      could have been prevented, but Slughorn - as the attacker - could
      have countermeasures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Judging from the Daily Prophet, he'd had them in place. There
      was a lengthy article on all that was publicly known about <em class="calibre7">Tom
      Riddle, and comparing those facts with what was known about Harry
      Potter.</em> There weren't many details of the attack. That made
      sense, the news of his attack came out in the prior edition. These
      were reaction pieces.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened ... after I passed out?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they arrested Horace of course. Put him in Gilderoy's
      cell, I'm told. Lady Malfoy smashed the place up pretty well, but
      they let her go."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But she...," Harry started to say <em class="calibre7">she attacked me</em>. But
      he'd passed out, he didn't know what she'd done. It certainly
      <em class="calibre7">looked</em> like she was about to attack Harry. Or perhaps Xare
      or Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Asimov looked down, abashed. "Augusta vouched for her.
      Threw a fit. Said that she'd have attacked you herself if she'd
      been there and seen what Narcissa saw."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered. A grieving widow, straight after her only
      son's funeral, just seeing compelling evidence that the butcher who
      murdered her son and her husband was alive. A crime, yes, but
      hardly pre-meditated. <em class="calibre7">Assuming that she was actually surprised
      by the news.</em> Any competent lawyer could keep Narcissa out of
      jail in a muggle court, at least pending the trial. Mix in wizard
      politics and it made sense that Amelia Bones released her, lacking
      a smoking gun. <em class="calibre7">Which wouldn't exist if Narcissa were actually
      surprised, and certainly wouldn't if she wasn't.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, then folded the newspaper up and dropped it onto
      his sheets. There were no funeral announcements, and Professor
      Asimov hadn't said anything, but he needed to check.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did anyone die? When I was poisoned?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thankfully not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spent several moments considering the latest attack on
      him. Coupled with the newspaper articles it had been revealing. Now
      Draco's motive was clear. Pieces started clicking into place, first
      slowly but with growing speed. Harry spent a few minutes thinking,
      and listening to Fawkes quiet song, before speaking again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't seem to have any problem with me," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We haven't talked much," Professor Asimov said. In fact, Harry
      had avoided talking to him, mostly to avoid acting like a starry
      eyed fan or stupid kid. But also because he didn't want to
      contaminate the lessons on Muggle Studies, or influence Professor
      Asimov's views on how to convert magical society to a more rational
      way of thinking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So he'd stayed away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco spoke well of you, a few times. Talking to the other
      professors and the Headmistress was different. You ... bewilder
      them. But they're just witches and wizards, and I'm a Science
      Fiction author. I've seen boys like you for decades. Maybe not
      quite <em class="calibre7">so</em> smart. But hundreds of dreamers, the ones who
      just don't fit in. To your teachers, Harry Potter is a mystery. To
      me, well, I've run into him before. And just now, over the last
      day, I've spoken to your father, and the stories he tells me
      reminds me of a Richard Feynman."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I remind you of <em class="calibre7">Richard Feynman</em>?" Harry asked, with
      unrestrained glee.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not in science, although I gather you are well advanced, but in
      the mindset, attacking problems from unexpected angles. Novel
      solutions. And, I must admit, your talent for self-promotion. You
      both leave a trail of amazing stories in your wake as a calling
      card. But yes, like Feynman. And then I started to think about what
      possible use you could have for an old writer such as myself, and
      the only thought I could come up with was that you wanted me as
      your library and viewed yourself as more Hari Seldon than Harry
      Potter. Am I right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It sounds kind of arrogant when you put it that way," Harry
      grumbled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, it is arrogant! But Seldon was striving to save the
      universe, and I see before me a small boy who read my book, and
      dreamed of saving the universe one day, and then found himself with
      just that option. How could I possibly think you are evil?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They shared a laugh, but then Professor Asimov frowned. "But,
      several of my colleagues who are much more knowledgeable than I am
      do consider you evil, and at least one tried to murder you. And I
      can't quite figure out what Draco was planning, but he certainly
      felt that drastic measures were necessary for some reason, although
      he never told me why. Come to think of it, one of the first things
      he did was to warn me that I shouldn't mistake Hogwarts students
      for normal children, and that what I thought of as games were
      deadly serious. At the time I just humoured him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When was this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The first day of classes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thought back to the train ride at the beginning of the
      year, how Draco had said he'd wanted an introduction to Professor
      Asimov. The sun had started to rise, and the first wisps of
      daylight streamed in through the window. Madam Pomfrey came by on
      her rounds and examined Harry for a few minutes, then declared that
      he still needed to rest. Harry asked her about the poison, but she
      just frowned and shushed him, said that his prognosis was fine, and
      told Professor Asimov in no uncertain terms that Harry was not to
      be pestered. Professor Asimov got up to leave, but as he was
      walking out he turned back, ignoring Madam Pomfrey's complaint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When you do figure this out, you'll explain it to me, won't
      you?" Professor Asimov's voice had the slightest hint of
      pleading.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I promise. Soon. Once they release me, I need to do something,
      but then..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded as Madam Pomfrey shoved Professor Asimov out the
      door, while casting <em class="calibre7">Somnium</em> at the small boy with the
      lightning scar under her care.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">8pm</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked around the room, amazed at the differences. The
      walls were scorched and melted, and the floor wasn't flat - it
      warped up and down as you moved from the front to the back, as
      though the heat had caused the marble itself to start bubbling like
      pancake batter, and it had frozen in place when the heat had been
      removed. The walls weren't just scorched black, but purple and
      green and a few colours Harry didn't have words for. For a moment
      Harry ignored the people around him, enthralled in the power
      demonstrated by the damage. He ignored Hermione and Professor
      Asimov's questions, not even really hearing them at some level.
      Harry only woke up when he heard Amelia Bones quiet voice come
      through the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Minerva, I've got Ministers screaming at me, the Wizengamot
      is in a snit. Rumours of centaurs barricading themselves in caves
      to avoid having to look at the sky, Poland is demanding that we
      move the Chalice somewhere safe, Goblins are sending a delegation
      for some reason, and don't even get me started on the Americans,
      why the Salem Institute of Witches..." she stopped abruptly when
      she realized that the room had more than just Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter," said Headmistress McGonagall, walking beside Madam
      Bones. "Ah, good evening, Professor Asimov. Miss Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmistress, Chief Warlock. I've got some answers, not
      everything but I know you're under considerable political pressure,
      so I thought I'd walk you through the main points. Then you can
      hold a press conference or call a special session of the
      Wizengamot, as you see fit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones nodded, but there was a frown on her face. "I can
      hardly complain about the Girl-Who-Revived being here, she was a
      witness. And frankly people love her. But I protest Professor
      Asimov's presence. He's not even a wizard, and I don't see why he's
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Amaneunsis," Harry said automatically, then hastily explained
      "Not in the strict sense of being a note taker, more of in the
      literary sense that he's my ... living memory, if you will. Call
      him my conscience for this matter. He has an outsider's view, and
      is naturally sympathetic towards Lockhart and Slughorn, and Draco
      and Neville for that matter. Not to mention he has a good grasp on
      the general sweep of history, <em class="calibre7">without being influenced by the
      specific history of Magical England,</em> which I think might bias
      our decisions. We have to decide how we respond to the <em class="calibre7">Daily
      Prophet's</em> attacks, and I think he'll have good advice. Oh, and
      I promised him. Anyway, after this is done I'll go interview the
      Professor Slughorn, just to wrap up loose ends that don't affect
      the pressing political matters..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you haven't interviewed him, how can you be sure your story
      is right," said the Headmistress, as she cocked her head
      inquisitively. Harry smiled at the question<em class="calibre7">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A great question, Headmistress. I've interviewed some
      perpetrators and the surviving Aurors, and read the remaining
      transcripts of Mad-Eye's interrogations. I caught up on those I
      missed this morning. That includes Lockhart's interview under
      Veritaserum and Slughorn's initial statement after the attack.
      There are questions I need answered, but those statements of fact
      seem thorough. The timeline isn't complete, but I don't think the
      gaps matter. Well, not immediately. And Auror Li's interview
      carries particular weight. I just finished conducting a follow on.
      There's a lot going on, but it is just a battle. We do after action
      reports all the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alastor shouldn't be investigating right now," said Amelia
      Bones, but there was resignation in her voice. "I'd take over the
      investigation, but it would imply a lack of faith in Thicknesse. I
      do miss the simplicity of the DMLE. But Mad Eye should leave that
      to the Aurors and recover."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you wanted to control him, you shouldn't have let him
      retire. Actually, now that we have the ... Chalice, it seems to me
      that mandatory retirement should be revisited," Harry said, "But I
      digress. It's a simple plot, really, because the attempted heist
      was a feint."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A feint?" said Madam Bones, her voice rising and shooting
      glances around the room. Hermione was nodding along, and Professor
      Asimov was just following the proceedings quietly. McGonagall's jaw
      had dropped slightly, but she quickly recovered and shut it
      tightly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty dark wizards attack Hogwarts and Peverell and invest
      Merlin knows how many Galleons for a feint? I could understand the
      attack for the Chalice, it holds the key to life itself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, and we grossly underestimated the probability of a serious
      brute force attack, which is what Mad-Eye is currently fixing,
      Madam Bones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pondered. We'd need a whole compound, not just a small
      annex. Harry remembered the old saying: <em class="calibre7">Brute force attack
      failed? Needs more brute force.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll admit," offered Amelia Bones, "that the timing of the
      second attack is suspicious, and may not just be a
      coincidence..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not unreasonable to look at Slughorn's attack as just
      taking advantage of the timing," Harry said. "And as far as the
      wizards in custody know, they aren't related. For them, the goal
      was the Chalice. <em class="calibre7">And they would have gotten away with too, if
      it weren't for those meddling kids."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled at the last one and Professor Asimov chuckled, but
      Hermione just shook her head so Harry sighed and continued.
      Explaining the joke never helped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said, "the attackers were duped by their inside man,
      Draco Malfoy." Before anyone could interrupt he tossed the copy of
      the <em class="calibre7">Daily Prophet</em> on the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of Lucius's old rules. <em class="calibre7">Look at the results and see who
      profits</em>. As a heist, this was a bust. But as a way of exposing
      me? Resounding success. This entire thing was an experiment and,
      judging from the editorials in today's paper, an <em class="calibre7">ongoing</em>
      experiment. But back up and consider, Madam Bones, how you reacted
      when you found out I defeated Voldemort and was Dumbledore's heir
      as a mere child. Then contemplate how you felt when you found out I
      was, in some ways, a copy of Voldemort's soul."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought I took it well," she sniffed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco found all of that by the end of the first day of school,
      after suffering the trauma of losing his father. He's suspected me
      of being Voldemort for a while, I knew that, and struggled for a
      way to resolve it. It's a difficult problem, with no great solution
      ... I actually discussed this with Quirrel last year. Anyway, for
      Draco it wouldn't be enough to discover whether I was Voldemort. If
      he did that I'd kill him. I mean, if I was actually evil. Draco
      needed to neutralize me until the results of the experiment came
      in. And he wanted to ensure that if I was Voldemort." Here Harry
      trailed off for a second, before continuing, "that if I actually
      was Voldemort and killed Draco, it wouldn't help. Draco needed to
      expose me to a wide audience."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The heist set pieces in place for his real experiment, a grand
      misdirection. I couldn't figure it out before the second attack,
      because I was working under the theory that Peverell was the
      target, which didn't make sense with the facts at hand. But with
      the new motive, everything makes sense. Now I'm revealed as Tom
      Riddle, which is Voldemort as far as Draco is concerned. And the
      Prophet has published the information that Voldemort was Tom
      Riddle. He's spread that information far and wide. Draco is trying
      to isolate me, and making sure that everyone with a grudge against
      Voldemort knows it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He couldn't bring himself to kill you before," Hermione
      muttered. "Because he might be wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco survived?" said Professor Asimov.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's ... complicated. Maybe. I'm still checking. For now,
      consider 'Draco' to be a conspiracy, instead of a person. At least
      after the attack. This gets confusing. But before the attack, Draco
      - the real Draco - wanted to determine if I'm Voldemort. So, an
      experiment. He knew he wouldn't get many volunteers by saying 'Hey,
      do you want to hunt down another potential Voldemort?' Too much
      risk and not enough reward. But dangling the Chalice in front of
      greedy Wizards? Well, that recruited an army."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can <em class="calibre7">hardly</em> be accused of being a supporter of House
      Malfoy," said the Headmistress in her prim accent, "but I refuse to
      believe that Draco Malfoy would do something so ... evil."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree, Draco had resolve but willfully endangering so many
      lives..." said Professor Asimov.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think he did," said Harry quietly. "But I have some
      facts you don't. First, I invited Draco at the beginning of the
      year to help me test the security, so he was well placed to judge
      how effective the attack would be. Second, Peverell would have been
      attacked in any case, I had even mentioned that there were groups
      of Dark Wizards already planning on attacking. Aurors were already
      in danger. Draco just shifted their timetable. And finally, by all
      accounts Draco tried to make the attack more subtle, less
      lethal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But they came through Hogwarts," countered Madam Bones, who had
      also read the transcripts. "What if they'd stumbled on a
      student...aah, the wards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. In the letters from their inside man, they were warned
      time and again about the Hogwarts wards. They couldn't hurt a
      student, they'd be limited to harmless spells until after they
      broke into Peverell. They just <em class="calibre7">Somnium</em>ed anyone they
      stumbled across and hid the bodies. And they knew that only a
      Professor could <em class="calibre7">Imperius</em> or memory alter a student, so
      they wouldn't be tempted. Any attack on a student would mean
      discovery and failure. One letter rather credulously mentioned a
      legend that the very statues of Hogwarts would exact vengeance on
      outsiders who threatened a student. No, Draco's plan took measures
      to move risk away from the innocent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not enough measures, apparently," said Professor Asimov. "Or
      did one of them simply forget?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Walk us through it," said Madam Bones, firmly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gestured to the room around them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The attack starts here. And ends here, I suppose. There's some
      speculation involved, and I've filled in a few gaps, but most of
      this is straight from the transcripts. A few details to iron out,
      but the broad strokes are right. So, on the afternoon of March 6th
      Draco lured me here and then ambushed me and smuggled me out of
      Hogwarts..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But there's no way out," said Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not anymore," Harry agreed. "This room ... has a power. I don't
      really understand it yet, but I suspect it's gone. Not much works
      after getting hit with Fiendfyre. Sometime after I got knocked out,
      Draco created a tunnel to Hogsmeade from here. Later they burned
      this room. Also part of their plan, to cover their tracks when they
      escaped. Anyway, after Draco stunned me ..."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
