<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 56: Bluff and Double Bluff, pt 4, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 56: Bluff and Double Bluff, Pt 4</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart poked his head around the corner, then rapidly
      pulled it back. He dropped to the ground as spells blazed through
      the now-empty doorway. Lockhart cautiously raised himself back to a
      crawl and shuffled back a pace or two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I count five of them," he said. "A <em class="calibre7">praesidium</em> spell as
      their major defense, beyond that they are just using the beds for
      cover."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Frank Wellington, a tall wiry man, with energy like
      someone had captured a lightning bolt and frozen it in place, shook
      his head. "Those bed frames are enchanted, too. Not totally
      impenetrable, but they'll stop most things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Flitwick let out an exasperated sigh, which came out
      as a mid-pitch squeak. Wellington just shrugged his shoulders.
      "It's meant to be a defensible position."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick, Lockhart and the three Aurors conferred. The
      <em class="calibre7">Praesidium</em> would block any spell moving too quickly, but a
      slow spell could get through. It also didn't stop anything
      physical.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The small-ish Auror, whose name Gilderoy had forgotten, said
      "The only real option is to charge, and we'd be sitting ducks. The
      rest of the squads are coming into from the back, we'll have
      numbers shortly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, Todd," said Christine, the third Auror, "You know what
      they say about the job, <em class="calibre7">two years of boredom for two minutes of
      terror.</em> I didn't sign up to miss out on my two minutes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy chuckled. He <em class="calibre7">did</em> know Christine - they'd been
      in Ravenclaw together. Their months together weren't boring. And
      they'd had at least five minutes of terror of being discovered.
      She'd been a firecracker as a young woman, and that hadn't changed.
      Still...Gilderoy agreed with Todd. He was about to raise the point
      when there was a rustling from the hallway behind him and he spun,
      quickly adjusting his <em class="calibre7">custodiet</em> shield to protect against
      an ambush. Theoretically there were only Hogwarts professors and
      Aurors behind him, but ...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart stopped mid-spell as Hermione Granger skidded
      to a halt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"General Granger," Gilderoy said, still wearing the smile he'd
      had from his earlier reminiscing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go away, Miss," said Frank, "This isn't the place for
      students."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Polyjuice,"</em> whispered Flitwick quietly, reminding
      everyone. Hermione had her hands up, but gave no sign of
      leaving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can help, Professor, I can!" She didn't plead. <em class="calibre7">Hermione
      Granger seems twice her age. Either its not her or this is
      personal,</em> Gilderoy thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me something only Hermione Granger would know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Uh, during Christmas Break we ran into each other at <em class="calibre7">The
      Tragedy of Light</em> and Narcissa was mad at Draco and tried to
      insult me with some floriography, so I just ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyone could have read about that in the gossip sheets, Miss
      Granger," Professor Lockhart said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They printed that?" Hermione gasped in a voice squeakier than
      Flitwick's, before turning bright red..</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...but no imposter would use that particular phrasing. Or blush
      so much," Gilderoy finished as he lowered his wand, nodding to the
      scowling Aurors. Hermione ran over. Professor Flitwick stood in her
      way, preventing her from advancing any further towards the door,
      face stern.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, Lockhart," said Christine, and the use of his last name
      grabbed his attention, "we're in charge and I'm not going to let a
      student..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy shushed her and waved his hand, then bent down and
      huddled next to Hermione, "We need to outflank them. Miss Granger,
      can your Phoenix move us into position? There are wards around
      Peverell, but it's possible to move inside those wards, if not
      through them. If we step one foot in..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They trapped him!" she started to describe what had happened,
      but Gilderoy stopped listening and after a few more words Hermione
      Granger collapsed from his wordless <em class="calibre7">Somnium.</em> He caught her
      gently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seriously, Christine," Gilderoy shook his head, "Do you really
      think I'd let a second year charge into battle? I'll drag her back
      to safety. Horace should have has stock of potions back in the
      staging area, and I think some explosive draughts and <em class="calibre7">caligo
      noctus</em> should work nicely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy Lockhart easily picked up the limp form of Hermione
      Granger, glancing at the wand still clasped in her hand. "And I'll
      give Pomona her wand back. What <em class="calibre7">have</em> you been up to, Miss
      Granger?" he chuckled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bring along some House Elves," said Frank, "in case they get
      desperate and start flinging killing curses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy nodded as he rushed back towards the infirmary.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Selwyn's vision dropped out instantly as black smoke flooded
      into the room. He'd seen the fragile flasks as they'd arced to
      various corners of the room and shouted out a warning. Selwyn kept
      his left hand on the robed figure next to him, so that he could
      tell if she got hit or move away, while he counted in his head
      <em class="calibre7">eins zwei drei.</em> Selwyn fired off several spells at the
      doorway. The room exploded with noise, a weaponized
      <em class="calibre7">Sonorus</em> spell that Aurors world-wide used to intimidate
      crowds. They'd prepared for that, of course. His shields
      automatically muted any dangerously loud sounds, but still allow
      him to hear as the footsteps moved. The witch next to him was
      spraying area effect curses to the left of the doorway and Selwyn
      heard a shield crackling, so he shifted and fired to the left.
      Already the fog was disappearing, it would be gone soon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are through," he cried out in German. <em class="calibre7">They wouldn't
      release the fog until they were all in.</em> "Fall back while we
      have cover!" Selwyn got up, turned and ran, careful to jump over
      the corpse he knew was beside him. He easily jumped, but his legs
      felt strangely numb and seemed sluggish. When he landed his right
      leg wasn't positioned properly and gave out from under him. Selwyn
      raised his arms to protect his face from the impact of landing, but
      his right arm moved a bit sluggishly and he cracked his face
      against the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Selwyn looked down at his leg and he could see that he'd broken
      his right leg when he'd landed. <em class="calibre7">That should hurt</em> he
      thought, as he tried to scramble up, but his motions were like
      trying to swim in a pool of syrup, slow and awkward. The fog had
      cleared and he was out in the open and Selywn tried to drag himself
      away as he could hear them screaming for him to get up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">But no spell hit me</em> was Selwyn's final thought as the
      Aurors closed in and fired slow moving draining spells.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco!" Gilderoy's face edged towards a smile, then quickly
      turned to a frown as he strode towards his student, who stood
      poking one of the blood red stones on the floor with his cane to
      move it into the pile of known fakes. By now word of the <em class="calibre7">Midas
      curse</em> had spread.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy continued "What are you doing here, Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Aurors were busy securing the remaining prisoners, carefully
      avoiding the other seven or eight red stones scattered around the
      room. Draco turned and looked at him for a second, confusion on his
      face. <em class="calibre7">Draco knows everyone,</em> Gilderoy thought as he
      screamed out "Imposter!" and raised his wand. The surrounding
      Aurors - adrenaline still fresh and flowing through their systems -
      all shifted wands, about to fire at somebody, anybody, as 'Draco'
      dove behind the nearest bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Orion Elbow Purple," screamed 'Draco.' "<em class="calibre7">Orion Elbow
      Purple</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy's spell streaked through the air where 'Draco' had
      stood while a rush of Aurors lowered their wands, shouting that
      Draco was an Auror.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy noted several Aurors aimed wands on him, though at
      least one still had 'Draco' in his sights.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He spoke slowly and deliberately. "That is not Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm Auror Mike Li," came Draco's voice. "The password of the
      day is Orion Elbow Purple! The Aurors in the room are Frank
      Wellington, Aleister Seville, uh..." Draco's head poked over the
      bed as he glanced around the room, "Christine King is just walking
      into the room. I don't know you, the tall one, but you don't work
      in Peverell..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tall one said "Nicodemus Salamander."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy's wand stayed up. "Attackers Polyjuiced as students,"
      he said, voice unsure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And Professors," said one of the Aurors. Gilderoy lowered his
      wand. "I suppose we just need to keep each other in sight for the
      next few hours until it wears off. Or doesn't, in my case."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they sized each other up, Christine walked over and said.
      "I'll vouch for him, we went to school together. This is Professor
      Lockhart. Gilderoy. I found Draco ... he's in the other room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy looked at her. "I'm sorry," she said, face ashen.
      Gilderoy Lockhart ran into the other room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy was sprawled face up on the ground with a surprised
      look etched on his face. His cane was still in his hand. As soon as
      he saw it, Gilderoy spun on the following 'Draco,' who had his
      hands up in surrender. "How is it that..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He gave me a copy of his cane during the attack," Mike Li said,
      but already his form was bubbling and growing to full size, and
      Gilderoy could see in the corner of his eyes that the other Aurors
      recognized the former Draco. "He'd been doing a security test, he
      just happened to be here during the attack..." As the Auror
      continued speaking he stretched out and grew, skin and hair
      darkening as he reverted back to his true form, and Gilderoy's hand
      dropped, wand drooping almost to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was supposed to protect him," Lockhart said morosely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A sly chuckle came from a bound figure lying on the ground, a
      blonde witch with splotchy complexion. Two Aurors were still
      securing her. "He'd have died in any case, once he'd finished
      betraying you..." she laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gilderoy's eyes narrowed and his wand barely had to move at all
      as he hissed out the word <em class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre9">Crucio</strong>.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The witch's scream pierced through the room for thirty seconds
      before the Aurors broke through Lockhart's shields.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sat back in his chair, throat sore. Amelia Bones and
      Headmistress McGonagall exchanged a glance. Professor Asimov, who
      had been staring at the ceiling, returned his gaze to the assembled
      crowd.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Anyway," Harry said, "That's pretty much the end. They found
      Draco's body next to the real Philosopher's Stone, and what with
      all the <em class="calibre7">Midnight Fog</em> and the chaos of battle, it's an open
      question if that body belongs to Draco, or he managed to grab the
      stone and permanently PolyJuice into someone else's form and that
      body is someone we assumed burned to death in the Fiendfyre."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry waited for crosstalk and challenges that never came.
      Hermione's face, set like granite, gave no indication of any
      emotion. Harry knew Professor Asimov wouldn't volunteer any
      suggestion, although he had expected more questions. <em class="calibre7">Ignorance
      doesn't indicate a problem, just a lack of knowledge.</em> The
      Headmistress seemed annoyed by Harry's version of her defense.
      <em class="calibre7">She hadn't done anything wrong, but she still blames herself
      for not finding a way to save Neville.</em> Harry suspected this
      was another time when Minerva wanted someone to lash out at her,
      but she'd been blameless. <em class="calibre7">She's growing into her new position
      well, and if she is no Albus Dumbledore ... well, few are.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed internally, <em class="calibre7">people are so afraid of going first
      and looking foolish. "</em>I can't believe you don't have
      questions. When I went through the full transcripts I had
      dozens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such as?" The Headmistress asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, "I don't want to prejudice things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't say anything. She and Harry had already argued
      what it meant that her pouch and wand had been next to her bed when
      she awoke. Draco had apparently sent it up there at some point
      during the night. Harry just said that it means that Draco knew he
      couldn't smuggle them into Peverell, and thankfully didn't realize
      what he'd gotten. Draco had managed to acquire two of the three
      Deathly Hallows before even setting foot in Peverell, and he'd
      given both back. To Harry's mind, that meant Draco never even knew
      what he'd done. Hermione argued he'd done that fighting the
      Imperius. Now she'd conceded the point.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">She argued against Draco last Spring,</em> Harry thought.
      <em class="calibre7">Now she defends him.</em> But he understood the impulse. Harry
      still felt the urge to defend Draco. <em class="calibre7">Why can't I ever have an
      enemy I instinctively dislike?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones spoke first, "What was Draco's original plan?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, "I don't know. I can't see how this works unless
      Draco had a full fledged battle raging around him. He can't get at
      his equipment without some distraction. Part of me thinks Draco
      always intended Neville to die," Harry shot Hermione a glance, but
      again her face revealed nothing, "but he may have had another trick
      up his sleeve."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why now," Hermione asked quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded, "That's been troubling me. Undoubtedly the exact
      timing is convenience, but something changed. Maybe Draco just felt
      that he couldn't let things go on. It may be that the discovery of
      the Map gave him the impetus. I'm going to question Lockhart and
      Slughorn tomorrow. Maybe they can shed some light on this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If Draco did escape," asked Professor Asimov, "How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, if he was Polyjuiced he may have just gotten away in the
      final minutes and walked out. He had to be gone before the full
      investigation, because then Aurors were checking everyone with
      Legillmency. But he could have dived out a hole. Even then, he'd
      have to make his way to the wards to avoid the anti-Portkey
      measures the Aurors raised around Hogwarts. Still, I can think of
      several ways around that. It doesn't matter too much, although it
      is an interesting question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't bring himself to admit which answer he hoped was
      true. IF Draco lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Auror Li didn't see a Portkey among Draco's items," said the
      Headmistress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which may just mean that he didn't recognize it. That fits with
      Draco's <em class="calibre7">modus operandi</em> during the entire affair. We also
      don't know what Draco's third potion was. In any case, how Draco
      left isn't really as much of a concern as how we handle the fact
      that Draco might still be alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You want us to announce that Draco survived?" Amelia Bones
      sounded incredulous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No!" Harry said abruptly, "Sorry, that wasn't my intent. We
      have to decide what we're going to do about the current situation.
      All of this happened because Draco didn't trust me. And, well,
      we've been lying. For a good cause, but I just thought perhaps we
      lay out my past to the Wizengamot and ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Now</em> the room explodes in cross talk and challenges,
      Harry thought as the voices climbed over each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely not," said Minerva McGonagall over the others,
      silencing them. "As someone who has experienced Harry Potter first
      hand, you do have your charms. But your natural tendencies make
      people slow to warm up to you and quick to judge. If they believed
      you were Voldemort, they would stop thinking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They would remember that you frightened a Dementor," Amelia
      Bones said, "and naturally go <em class="calibre7">'Aha! Of course!'</em> Well,
      obviously Lord Voldemort frightens Dementors, that makes sense.
      It's a convenient, easy to believe narrative."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione destroyed five Dementors," Harry said, but he said it
      softly. He'd brought the others in for their political advice.
      <em class="calibre7">It would be foolish to just reject it out of hand</em>. "In any
      case, the story is already out there. If we say that yes, magically
      speaking I'm ... Voldemort's son, say ... we can point out I wasn't
      raised by him and <em class="calibre7">his sins are not mine</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore knew," Hermione said, "and he didn't tell
      anyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "Dumbledore cheated, Hermione. He clearly
      had extra-temporal information that he used to maneuver me. Which
      means we can't really base our of decision making, apart from a
      moral standpoint, on him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The discussion flared, growing more heated, before dimming
      again, and they did not break until well past midnight.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
