<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 58: Bluff and Double Bluff, pt 5, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s26" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 58: Bluff and Double Bluff, Pt 5</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Plotters never violate the Rule of Three, Father?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"They violate it all the time. The vast majority are
      idiots."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"And what are the remainder?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Desperate. Only the desperate take unreasonable
      risks."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- Lucius and Draco Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Monday, November 4th, 1991.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who can tell me what Generals Potter and Malfoy did wrong and
      why it is that General Granger earned ten Quirrell points in
      yesterday's battle?" Professor Quirrell's voice resonated
      throughout all of the Defense hall, echoed by the monitors in front
      of each student. Draco's head tilted almost imperceptibly downward
      as he felt a stab of shame. The shame of losing, publicly
      losing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Bad enough to have lost at all, but to a Mudblood?</em>
      Draco berated himself for a moment, as he'd been doing since losing
      the first battle to Hermione Granger the day before. But then he
      heard the voice of Father, who sometimes spoke inside of his
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Anyone may lose, my son. I have lost. A dozen Lord Malfoys
      have lost innumerable times throughout history. There is no shame
      in losing. Only shame in admitting defeat. Lose in battle, never
      lose faith.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco raised his chin to compensate for the earlier drop, then
      raised it more. His hand shot up, joining dozens of others. He
      noticed that Hermione wore an annoyed look on her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell turned towards Draco and paused in his
      relentless to-and-fro across the front of the room. "Yes, Mr.
      Malfoy? Tell the class your mistake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"General Potter and I underestimated General Granger. She's
      apparently overcome her lack of fighting spirit," he said with a
      practiced bemusement, earning chuckles from the class. Vincent let
      out a snort that Draco now recognized as a measured ironic comment.
      Mr. Crabbe sported a surprisingly nuanced sense of humour.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Thank Merlin for the lessons in public speaking,</em> Draco
      thought, not for the first time today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct," said Professor Quirrell, drawling the word out where
      others would pause, "but not complete. General Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"General Granger delegated and trusted her troops more, instead
      of having a rigid command structure," Harry Potter said, with an
      embarrassed look on his face. <em class="calibre7">This hurts him, admitting his
      errors, and he doesn't hide showing it.</em> It also struck Draco
      as an odd statement, at least if what he'd heard about the Chaos
      Legion's fluid command structure was true. Still, he'd noticed
      Harry's precision about his words. Perhaps General Potter was
      admitting more (and less) than first appeared. <em class="calibre7">Perhaps Harry
      delegated, but didn't really trust them.</em> Draco filed away the
      thought for further review.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's voice ended Draco's reverie. "Also correct,
      although delegating and trusting carry their own dangers, One
      example is the problem of communicating and coordinating in a
      rapidly changing environment. Ah, I see that <em class="calibre7">Neville of
      Chaos,</em>" at this Professor Quirrell's thin lips turned ever so
      slightly upward, "has my answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville Longbottom let out a deep breath, like he'd been holding
      it. "When General Granger's army was revealed to be alive, they
      didn't adjust their strategy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's head tilted ever so slightly to the side,
      like a bird interested in a shiny rock. "They formed an alliance,
      Mr. Longbottom, whereas just before General Potter had been
      employing a muggle device to eviscerate General Malfoy's shields.
      Which reminds me, I disallow muggle devices in the future, Mr.
      Potter. While I admire the cleverness behind it, it hardly strikes
      me as sporting to your fellow students for you to reach into your
      bag of tricks and"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But General Malfoy was..." Harry started up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is the Hogwarts <em class="calibre7">School of Magic!</em>" Professor
      Quirrell retorted, spinning to face Harry. His volume dropped back
      to normal, and he resumed his typical soothing lecture voice as he
      smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I only mention that in case it had slipped your mind, Mr.
      Potter. So if General Malfoy spends his time in the library," and
      with this, Professor Quirrell's smile broadened noticeably, and
      Draco felt a thrill as the Professor nodded in his direction,
      "studying supposedly-advanced spells that are clearly within the
      range of abilities of first year students - no matter what the
      Ministry says - then you can understand why I consider that a
      perfectly legitimate advantage. One that any of my apprentices can
      learn, should they choose to exert themselves. Incidentally,
      students who <em class="calibre7">do</em> so choose will find that particular
      variant of the <em class="calibre7">Protego</em> spell in the standard book of
      spells, third year. Of which there are multiple copies are in the
      library. A fact that had surely not escaped General Granger's
      notice, I imagine. There are nine standard variants, not all of
      which are within your grasp."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco followed Professor Quirrell's view as he swiveled his gaze
      to Harry Potter, who nodded and seemed satisfied by the answer.
      Professor Quirrell refocused on Neville. "Apologies, Mr.
      Longbottom, for my distraction. You say that the Generals did not
      modify their strategy, and I have responded that they formed an
      alliance. How do you answer that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville seemed to be having a problem dealing with suddenly
      being the focus of attention again, but he blurted out, "That
      wasn't really new, though was it? They could have done that
      earlier, but simply choose not to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly," said Professor Quirrell, "allying was
      <em class="calibre7">required</em> for either of them to have a hope of winning, but
      it was not, by itself, up to the task. No doubt if General Potter
      had been thinking clearly he would have realized that he himself
      could have fixed the main weakness of General Malfoy's
      <em class="calibre7">Protego</em> spell - immobility - with his remaining troops.
      But he did not think of that. Apparently his cleverness is a
      limited resource, and he had run out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco could see the barb had struck Harry, who now appeared deep
      in thought enumerating ways he could have done better. Draco
      realized that the statement didn't feel like it applied to him.
      There were several interpretations. One is that he was subtly
      courting Draco, but that didn't seem likely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Does Professor Quirrell not expect me to be clever, as
      well?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It also strikes me odd that General Malfoy instinctively
      offered to ally with the apparently weaker of two sides," Professor
      Quirrell continued, sparing a glance at Draco. <em class="calibre7">That was my
      barb,</em> and Draco realized the truth of it. He'd never
      considered asking for Hermione's help. <em class="calibre7">It would never have
      worked, but Professor Quirrell is right.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps I am wrong. Perhaps Harry Potter thought of several
      tricks and deliberately decided not to use them. Perhaps Draco
      Malfoy did consider allying with Hermione Granger and realized his
      offer would be rejected, and he would look foolish. Did he also
      consider bribing General Granger's troops? Perhaps with offer of
      money, or a favor, such as a date?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">He's truly evil,</em> Draco thought as Vincent let out
      another snort, and even Gregory sniggered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would have course applauded that. And then I would ban
      outside considerations, for the same reason I've banned muggle
      devices. And, to be clear, I am banning them from this point
      forward. But," Professor Quirrell paused, and this time there was
      no drawl, just a brief silence, "it is my suspicion - backed by
      considerable experience - that by that point both losing Generals
      were operating as though <em class="calibre7">Confounded.</em> The battle had raged
      on too long. They were in a desperate, unexpected situation. They
      were <em class="calibre7">mentally tired</em>. And at that point, they shut down and
      just took the path of least <em class="calibre7">mental</em> effort, despite the
      rather valiant magical effort displayed by all parties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell seemed to be fading, and he slid into his
      leather backed chair, but still spoke forcefully. "I hope that you
      never are on the losing side of a battle, my young apprentices. But
      I cannot promise you this. I do not blame people for battle
      fatigue, but it is real, as you've witnessed. I cannot teach you
      how to overcome it - not in a classroom anyway - but if you
      recognize it on the battlefield, that alone may inspire you to
      continue. To persevere. To make one more mental effort. It is a
      difficult lesson and there is no shame in having to learn it the
      hard war. Most wizards never learn it at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glanced around the room. All the hands had fallen slowly
      down as Professor Quirrell had continued his lecture over the last
      few minutes, and many of the students looked thoughtful, at least
      among those not paying rapturous attention to the words being
      spoken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it is any consolation to my defeated Generals, I suspect
      that if they <em class="calibre7">had</em> produced such efforts, it would have been
      for naught. For the bleak truth is: When you find yourself in a
      losing situation, you often lose. That is personally why I
      <em class="calibre7">pretend to lose</em> for that is a winning situation. But make
      no mistake, if you are <em class="calibre7">actually</em> losing even the most
      cunning stratagem does not guarantee victory. The soon-to-be
      victors are well placed to counteract superior cunning with their
      own lesser efforts, or even brute force. And my lesson to you:
      <em class="calibre7">Try anyway!</em> Any chance of victory is preferable to certain
      defeat. Do not act as though you were confounded! Maybe you will
      get lucky. Or perhaps the other forces will fall prey to
      overconfidence. Do not rely on luck, but do not discount it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell's voice was fading but still being repeated
      by the various monitors placed throughout the lecture hall. "In any
      case, if you are losing you have little left to lose. So - remain
      alive to your possibilities and you may yet remain alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Quirrell barely got the words "Class dismissed" out of
      his mouth before he collapsed back into his chair, face lolling off
      to the side, eyes still open but apparently fast asleep. The
      monitors flickered out of existence as the class slowly got their
      feet.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">March 7th, 1993, early am.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The battle ranged around Draco, hidden in a small closet, as he
      hurriedly worked but clumsily, hindered by hands much larger than
      he was used to. Draco's new hands didn't tremble, but their sheer
      size distracted him. Draco estimated his new body weighed nearly
      twenty stones, with height to match. His perspective was all wrong,
      too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Earlier, Draco had hurriedly quaffed the second vial of
      polyjuice from the small spherical flask after adding the man's
      hair. And then poured Draco-laced polyjuice down the stunned man's
      throat. Much easier for a fully grown man to drag a small boy
      instead of the opposite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We were insane, Neville,</em> Draco thought. <em class="calibre7">We should
      have just destroyed Harry's base of support and
      fled.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco felt the Philosopher's stone give a small twist in his
      hand. He set it aside and started to strip.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's fingers moved clumsily as he stripped. Draco's robes had
      adjusted to his new size - as they were enchanted to do, but his
      handles felt alien as he undressed. He quickly slipped the tiny
      blond boy who used to be a man out of grossly over-sized robes and
      donned them, instinctively checking his pockets for any useful
      items. <em class="calibre7">A spare wand, good</em>. Draco slipped his own robes
      onto the other body. <em class="calibre7">I seem so small.</em> Draco's hands placed
      the silver ring he'd taken off earlier and slipped it onto the
      child's finger, then placed the Philosopher's stone on the slowly
      breathing chest and waited. The sounds of the battle grew closer,
      he could hear shouting and screams.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stone twisted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco took out his wand and leveled it towards the man now
      wearing his body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Avada Kedavra," Draco said quietly but nothing happened.
      <em class="calibre7">How can I not do this? How can I fail now?</em> Draco tried
      again but the spell didn't work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I should want this man dead</em>, Draco thought, <em class="calibre7">he
      conspired to steal the Philosopher's Stone for himself</em>. <em class="calibre7">He
      no doubt planned on betraying me at the first opportunity.</em>
      Draco needed this man dead and cast around for a moment before
      remembering he now inhabited the body of a monstrous adult and the
      'man' he needed to kill was now a small child. Draco reached down
      and wrapped his arms around the now-tiny neck, gripping the side of
      the head. Draco saw his victim's eyes open wide, suddenly awake and
      afraid.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco twisted hard and heard the snap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I never even knew his name. Father told me that would make
      it easier.</em> Tears came to Draco's new eyes; he brushed them
      away. <em class="calibre7">I knew this path ... no, that is a distancing thought, I
      knew my plan required this. A few deaths, to save many.</em> Draco
      took the Sigil of House Malfoy and placed it in his doppelganger's
      hands, willing it to stay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glanced out of the room and tried to feel the shape of the
      battle. The experiences of the last two years hadn't prepared him
      for exactly this, but they mostly applied. Draco could hear another
      of Neville's arguments in his head, "<em class="calibre7">We've been fighting three
      way battles for two years, and the other two sides won't even know
      there's a third army!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Judging from the noise, Hogwart's had launched another assault.
      Black fog coursed through the hospital, obscuring everyone's vision
      and providing cover. Draco quickly grabbed the body and dragged it
      through the door, staying low. <em class="calibre7">We've already won,</em> Draco
      told himself as spells flew overhead. <em class="calibre7">Even if I die.</em> That
      thought calmed him down. His death would somehow make Neville's
      death fairer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">That thought is a pleasant falsehood, nothing more,</em>
      Lucius said. <em class="calibre7">A Malfoy cheats death hundreds of times before
      succumbing.</em> Draco dragged the corpse to the middle of the room
      and left it there. He stood up and double checked, making sure the
      corpse looked like he had. Polyjuice made the body correct, but he
      inspected all the clothes and jewelry and placed a spare wand down
      on the ground. <em class="calibre7">This is as good a place as any</em>. Draco
      holstered his other stolen wand and grabbed the one he'd smuggled
      in his fake cane. He clutched it with both hands, it felt tiny now.
      Draco made his way toward the wall and - spotting a hole - sprinted
      the last few steps. Each stride covered a seemingly impossible
      distance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco jumped through the hole in the wall and was outside in the
      clear night, falling. For a moment he felt frozen, staring at the
      moonlight above. Then sensation returned and he spun, rotating from
      the momentum of his jump and now Draco faced the ground below as it
      rushed up to meet him and Draco snapped the wand in half and felt
      the dislocating pull as his portkey dragged him away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We did it, Neville. We were insane, but...</em> Branches
      scraped Draco's face and he landed with a soft crunch into the dirt
      and leaves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rested in the ground for a moment, until finally he could
      think. <em class="calibre7">Apparently portkeys do not change your height above
      ground, or the speed you were going. Or maybe that just costs
      extra.</em> Draco blinked twice, tears coming out of his eyes. He
      rolled over. The canopy overhead blocked out the stars and the moon
      light. Draco could hear the battle raging, just barely. No portkey
      could take him outside of Hogwarts, not if aurors had set up
      anti-portkey enchantments. But those only warded the edges of
      Hogwarts. He'd only needed to escape from the battle, so a fast
      jump into the Forbidden Forest worked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco rolled over, casting his eyes around for the small stone
      cairn he'd built last weekend. <em class="calibre7">It should be nearby</em>. As
      scary as the Forbidden Forest had felt last fall or even last
      weekend, at least it had been daytime. In the darkness, Draco heard
      every chitter and screech and distant moan, a small symphony of
      unexplained sounds hinting at unseen dangers. Draco saw the pile of
      rocks and pulled himself up to his feet and walked over. He
      carefully started take apart the mound.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Did you plan on sacrificing yourself, Neville? I didn't want
      to admit it, but you more than anyone hated Voldemort.</em> Draco
      had emphasized that he didn't think Harry would turn into
      Voldemort, still Neville had latched onto that fact. Draco knew it
      had been a risk that Neville would commit suicide instead of risk
      failure, perhaps because of fear, perhaps because of some nobility
      towards his parents loss, but Draco had minimized the risk in his
      mind. <em class="calibre7">I never should have involved you, Neville. Just trusted
      my own judgement. I thought I could guide you, but that was just
      hubris. This is my fault.</em> Draco tossed each rock aside in a
      different direction and recited the pertinent rule of the plan to
      himself. <em class="calibre7">Do not leave any trace. The plan won't work if you
      leave a trace.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody had read Draco's mind during the Battle. That was the
      real risk. You can't <em class="calibre7">not think</em> of a plan while carrying
      out the steps. If his silver ring had detected any mental intrusion
      Draco would have had to kill, right away. No hesitation. That had
      been another real risk, that he'd stumble onto someone paranoid and
      clever, like Alastor Moody. But that risk had been there every
      since he recovered his memories. It was one of Neville's more
      compelling arguments. Draco couldn't plan around Harry for years
      without involving other people, not unless each and every one were
      an Occlumens and trustworthy, a rare combination. This plan
      (<em class="calibre7">this insane plan)</em> involved lots of moving parts, but
      waiting and operating in solitude involved it's own set of risks.
      Easier to enumerate, but just as dangerous. <em class="calibre7">My only excuse is
      that we were truly desperate.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Leaving the ring behind hurt, it was a valuable tool to a
      plotter too young to know when someone was reading his mind.
      Leaving everything behind hurt. But it was necessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Even if I die tomorrow, I'll die anonymously. It will take
      weeks for them to untangle this. With the Marauder's Map Slughorn
      will generate months of problems for Harry.</em> That, combined
      with Draco's other surprises would drastically curtail Harry
      Potter's political power over the next few years. In that area, if
      nothing else, Draco could be sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A twig snapped. It was a surprisingly mundane sound in the
      middle of the forest and Draco turned around. His mind rebelled
      against looking at the figure in the Armageddon Robe, but he saw
      the wand pointed at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you doing, Letholdus? Trying to escape with the stone
      by yourself?" The robe made the words sound like the screeching of
      nails on a chalkboard in Draco's mind. But Draco didn't recognize
      the speech pattern, or the wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Another attacker, probably watching from outside to delay
      the aurors.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Escaping, but without the stone. The battle is lost, something
      went wrong and they were all over us from the beginning. All we can
      do is escape. I stashed some supplies earlier, just in case. Come
      on, help me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll take those, step away." Draco stepped away. It was
      hopeless. He couldn't out-duel any of the attackers or aurors, and
      this wasn't a duel. His wand was holstered. Draco could summon his
      cane but that would ruin all he'd worked for. <em class="calibre7">No, better to
      die.</em> <em class="calibre7">Dying was always the most likely outcome. Anyway, it
      would be disrespectful to Neville to throw it all away to save
      myself.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Given that, it was hopeless. Draco felt so tired of it all. He
      closed his eyes and took a deep breath, resting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">And they were mentally tired... if you recognize it on the
      battlefield, that alone may inspire you to continue. To persevere.
      To make one more mental effort.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco opened his eyes, the memory of Professor Quirrell's
      lecture shocking him out of his reverie. <em class="calibre7">What do I know? What
      straws can I grasp at?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco considered. His attacker knew his name, at least the name
      of Draco's body. They clearly weren't friends, not from the gesture
      - although he dare not read much into the tone of someone wearing
      Armageddon Robes. But, Draco was still alive and not killed
      outright. Presumably this attacker was watching to prevent
      treachery by Lockhart and Draco, a part of the plan not told to him
      before hand. <em class="calibre7">And why would they tell him?</em> Those all struck
      Draco as reasonable assumptions. Time to decide on a strategy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Bribery?</em> No, anything he offered could simply be taken.
      <em class="calibre7">Pleading?</em> Laughable. Karkaroff had assembled an elite
      group of murderers (<em class="calibre7">like me,</em> a small part of Draco
      interjected). These people had plotted for a month, fraying each
      other's nerves. Draco imagined they'd bickered and snapped with
      barely restrained hostility, vying for dominance. In any case,
      pleading might betray the fact that he wasn't
      Letholdus<em class="calibre7">.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">For once, Draco lacked a social advantage. What advantage did he
      have? The robed figure had pulled off the last few rocks and found
      the waiting pouch, which contained all of the money Draco had dared
      to smuggle out of his vault without risking discovery or looking
      like he'd been planning to run, along with some gold and jewels.
      Neville's supplies were stashed somewhere else, but Draco didn't
      have time to go out Neville's escape route.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was still a handsome sum, several years of living expenses.
      He'd been spending extravagantly before he started this plan, which
      would help hide the wealth missing from his vault. That pouch
      represented a grand haul for any would-be thief, Mundungus Fletcher
      would have fainted if he'd glimpsed it. <em class="calibre7">But that pouch was
      paltry compensation if you'd planned to steal immortality
      itself</em>. Draco watched, thinking, and suddenly realized his
      advantage. It was admittedly slim, but if he failed... he had
      nothing to lose. And if he failed he'd leave no trace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">A win-win</em>, Draco chuckled to himself morbidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's just the money. I'll go get the other stash. We'll need
      both to escape cleanly." The figure threw back her hood and the
      look she gave Draco - a look of greed mixed with caution- buoyed
      his spirits. Not only was she interested, Draco could now read her
      expressions, no longer shrouded in the hood of her robes. He didn't
      recognize her, which just confirmed that she wasn't part of the
      plan. At least the plan Draco knew about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco took several steps to the left. He'd gathered his bearing
      now, and spoke confidently. "I know what all of you think of me,
      but there was always a chance of this bubbling over and I made
      preparations. I'm sorry, but what do you expect? Me to rot in jail
      with the rest of them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco (<em class="calibre7">Letholdus, remember?</em> Father's voice, said.
      <em class="calibre7">You are Letholdus. Don't think of yourself as Draco</em>)
      started walking more briskly, simply assuming that he would not get
      killed. He was judging his words based on watching the witch's
      reactions and right now instinct told Draco that her greed would
      keep him alive a bit longer. The witch had cast several spells and
      poured out the contents of the pouch before quickly returning
      them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Just money, like I said.</em> "What's in the other pouch?"
      she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Things we'll need to escape. Once the battle is done the aurors
      will search the entire grounds. So I stocked ward breakers and a
      portkey. Only one, but we can share it." Draco hurried as much as
      he dared. He needed her greedy <em class="calibre7">and suspicious</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stop." Draco stopped, obediently. Draco was sweating, but that
      helped. <em class="calibre7">Sweating is a natural reaction of being so close to
      death, and she'll naturally interpret that I'm afraid of
      her</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show me," she commanded. Draco took another step, but she fired
      off a spell to stop him. The witch shook her head, her short
      cropped blond hair reflecting what little moonlight got through the
      canopy. Draco, shoulders slouched, pointed to a spot a few feet
      ahead of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Buried at that tree trunk. Look. <em class="calibre7">Please</em>. We can share
      the port key. If we both escape, we can split up, and you have a
      better chance," Draco's voice took on a pleading tone, an edge of
      desperation, but the witch's smile kept growing as she slid past
      Draco, safely out his reach. She continued towards the tree,
      keeping a careful eye on Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please," Draco said as the triffid's vine snatched the witch
      off the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco dove down, dodging the wild spells she fired. The screams
      intensified and Draco scrambled behind cover and got out his own
      wand. Well, Letholdus' wand. There was a burst of flame, instantly
      illuminating the forest with a shockingly bright orange. She was
      trying to burn the triffid. Draco fired Expelliarmus at the vine,
      casting over and over again and the witch's frustrated scream let
      him know he'd scored. A moment later, the sound of rending flesh
      made Draco's shoulder ache and the screaming continued. The orange
      glow brightened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't want to look, but he watched. The wet sounds
      drowned out the rest of the forest. Draco steadied his wand
      <em class="calibre7">Accio pouch!</em> and his money flew over into his hand. The
      witch had stopped fighting, and was slowly disappearing into the
      Triffid's grotesque maw. Draco almost took her wand, then realized
      that would be a mistake. He didn't need it anyway. Draco walked
      away from the triffid at a brisk pace, but he heard more twigs
      snapping and two voices talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Aurors.</em> They'd followed the witch or heard the screams.
      <em class="calibre7">Or seen the fire, obviously.</em> They were flying towards
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco scanned about. He'd used his last advantage dealing with
      the witch. Even if it was just a single auror, he couldn't very
      well feed him to the Triffid. ("Once a triffid has eaten, it's safe
      to walk right up next it for up as long as two days or so,"
      Professor Lockhart had explained to the class, after Draco's near
      death. Draco probably could have picked up the pouch off the
      ground, but he hadn't felt like performing that experiment).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I couldn't finish it, Headmaster." He said, quietly to himself.
      "Not by myself. Hopefully I've done enough." He took the wand and
      pointed it at himself. He couldn't afford to be taken alive. They'd
      read his mind. Ideally he'd feed himself to a Triffid to destroy
      the evidence but perhaps if he found a small hiding spot... <em class="calibre7">I
      think, at this moment, I hate myself enough to do this.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco hadn't given up, but fatigue engulfed him. He couldn't
      think clearly. Instead of focusing on the problem at hand he
      instinctively thought about the conversation with Dumbledore that
      had set his plan in motion, how the Headmaster had told him of the
      prophecy that Harry Potter would destroy the world, and given Draco
      the burden of saving the world. Draco turned and started moving
      away from the incoming sound, but they were in brooms and Draco
      dare not cast Lumos. It would be a long trek, at night, through the
      Forbidden Forest. But he had nothing to lose, and he started
      walking as fast as he dared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I still have allies here,</em> Dumbledore had said, <em class="calibre7">and
      help is always available at Hogwarts to those who ask.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please, I need help," Draco whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And disappeared in flash of fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I saw a flash," said Auror Edebus, wand out, as the two brooms
      came crashing through the brush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Phaethon looked carefully around. "Yeah, it's called a
      fire. Probably just some rotting log catching. ... oh. Man." He
      dismounted slowly and cautiously and moved towards the flailing
      vines engulfed in flames. He peered into the fire, and heard quiet
      squishing noises underneath the crackling flames. "Looks like we
      found our straggler. Stumbled onto a Triffid."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Saves us the trouble," said Edebus, starting to extinguish the
      fire.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco Malfoy appeared inside the edge of the forest in a flash
      of fire, as though he'd been burning in two places at once. Fawkes
      scream of victory echoed inside his head, for a moment, and then
      there was another flash and the Phoenix was gone. Draco blinked a
      few times as the sudden darkness left him blind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fawkes?" Draco asked. But there was no light at all, except the
      gentle moonlight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Headmaster." The plan could go on. Draco couldn't
      very well kill Harry Potter, the Headmaster had told him that. Not
      that Draco would want to. But now he could disappear and spend the
      years gathering the resources he'd need to quietly oppose Harry.
      Not without fear, but with some semblance of order. By then maybe
      he'd have a better plan to slow down the inevitable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco couldn't save the world forever, but he could prolong it
      for years. Indefinitely, perhaps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Delay is the strongest form of denial, after
      all.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eyes adjusted, Draco looked out of the forest. He was at the
      rendezvous, at the edge of the forest by the lake, well away from
      the castle. Draco wanted to go peer down into the lake and take a
      good look at his reflection, but that was folly and vanity. In any
      case, that could wait. Draco looked around. It was just a few dozen
      steps to the edge of the grounds. He quickly cast a few spells of
      concealment and <em class="calibre7">Quietus</em>, took a few deep breaths, and ran
      across the small clearing until he was off the Hogwarts ground,
      confident that the wards would not raise the alarm at his passage.
      And they did not.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No longer rushed, Draco Malfoy turned and took one last look at
      Hogwarts, gently holding the delicate spherical flask in his hands,
      feeling the smooth glass. He placed it inside his pocket.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">We did it. We actually did it.</em> He savored the moment,
      letting satisfaction wash over him. He'd have years for remorse and
      regrets later. Possibly even decades to contemplate all that he'd
      given up and lost. <em class="calibre7">Just this once, I get to win.</em> There
      were broomsticks moving throughout the air, apparently the battle
      had ended. Draco's eyes lingered on the main gate, then settled on
      the castle of Hogwarts School of Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tomorrow he'd decide where to settle. Randomly. Even Harry
      Potter couldn't predict randomness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Neville of Chaos, Scion of House Longbottom," Draco whispered
      to nobody, "Goodbye." Only Hogwarts heard his voice and the
      tinkling cracks when Draco crushed the flask through the cloth,
      triggering the portkey that whisked him out of Scotland.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
