<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 61: Beginnings, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s29" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 61: Beginnings</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">August 1st, 1993</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Duarte let out a slow approving whistle as he stared at the
      nearly two meter tall brute, height made more impressive by the
      lack of hair to aid it. His bald head reflected most of the shaft
      of the afternoon light streaking in through the bar window. The man
      was dressed in a simple black T-shirt and jeans, and kept his eyes
      locked on Duarte. The man's physique looked natural, not like one
      of those American movie stars who spent hours in the gym.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Duarte nodded. "Yes, the boss will like you. A bruiser everyone
      can fear without shame. Very intimidating. What's your name?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man stared at him, gaze hard, for several seconds before
      finally saying, "Alexio."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Duarte raised an eyebrow and slid his gaze back to Tomas. "Well,
      Alexio, I need to confer with friend here," and he stepped over to
      the other side of the bar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where did you find this one, Tomas? Is he trying to pull some
      tough guy routine on us? Not that he doesn't look it, but does he
      know who we are?" Duarte nodded over to the bartender who poured
      out a shot of bourbon - the good stuff - and took a drink. "Or is
      he on drugs, and has to work off a debt?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No drugs, just an idiot. He's slow to answer, barely says
      anything, but if you put him in a scrape he's fine. Not a great
      fighter, but does he have to be? We can do the talking, he can tag
      along and look scary..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco had christened himself Alexio, and refused to think of
      himself by any other name. Until he learned Occlumency, it was too
      dangerous. Alexio watched Tomas talk conspiratorially with the new
      man, the shorter one who hadn't mentioned his name. Tomas was more
      of a middle man, but the short one worried Draco. He looked
      dangerous, like he'd had to compensate for his size to demonstrate
      his value. <em class="calibre7">He'd probably even been boasting about how the big
      ones are usually not so tough,</em> but Alexio hadn't understood
      much. Even the simple question, one on the first page of any
      language book, had taken him precious seconds to work out. It
      wasn't like a classroom or tutoring - everyone spoke fast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tomas and the short man had moved over to the other side of the
      bar to conspire about him. Hopefully they hadn't realized how
      little he grasped. But this was easier, now he didn't have to focus
      on the words. Alexio could read the obvious greed in their faces.
      They'd dump their work on him and pay him too little. Alexio walked
      a dangerous path, but not in the sense that he'd be in much
      physical danger. Even a typical second year could deal with
      muggles, if they put their mind to it, and Alexio was in no way
      typical. He'd been practising a few wandless stunning hexes,
      typically targeting obnoxious passersby late at night. They
      shouldn't have worked, but they did. Perhaps his earlier tutoring
      paid off, or perhaps it was the physical age of the body. It was an
      interesting theoretical question, but he didn't have time to
      experiment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Navigating the muggle world had dangers, and so he'd tested his
      skills, but he hoped to mostly hide them for the next year and
      practice alone, at his hideout. Casting spells in public risked
      alerting the local aurors while he clearly would be pegged as an
      outsider. Hiding had the less obvious (but much more important)
      risk - Harry would be actively consolidating power while Alexio
      waited in safety. No, Alexio knew he needed to start now. Because
      at some point, he would have enough power to be a threat to Harry
      Potter, and Alexio needed to make absolutely sure that his
      backstory did not simply start in 1993, with him as a newcomer who
      didn't speak the language. He needed to be someone who always spoke
      eloquently, but had chosen not to. Someone that had stories about
      him that easily predated his arrival.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Luckily Alexio had Vincent's example as a prototype. Be big, act
      stupid, speak only when absolutely necessary. Never break eye
      contact first, no matter how much you were afraid. Knowing he
      didn't need a wand in his hand helped calm his nerves. Alexio
      glanced over at the two, who were laughing now. They had made their
      decision. He turned his gaze to the television. The announcers
      still spoke too quickly (except for the news announcers) but they
      tended to have clear diction and usually never said anything
      complicated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tomas saw Alexio, sitting on the other side of the bar and
      watching them impassively for a few seconds before his eyes
      flickered over to the television and started watching the random
      trash it played. He and Duarte walked back over to Alexio, and
      Duarte slapped the big man on the back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Alexio, it appears we will be working together. The only
      thing you should know is, I prefer redheads. So no making moves on
      any of them. Got it?" Duarte said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio just let out an amused snort, shrugging his shoulders.
      Tomas laughed.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"And how are you feeling tonight, little one?" Afonso Farias
      asked as he gently kissed his daughter's forehead. He could feel
      the slight fever in his lips, still there, but much reduced from
      the summer, when things had looked bleak. The doctors couldn't
      explain it, one had simply said it was a miracle but the others
      just quietly admitted that there was still a lot to learn about
      human physiology, and the body had defenses they didn't
      understand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel good, Father," Ana said. "Nanny read to me after lunch.
      We had soup for lunch," she added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's good," Afonso added. He'd of course gotten a detailed
      update from Ana's nanny when he'd arrived home, and he knew that
      his daughter still slept about half the day. Her strength was
      returning slowly, but it was better than the alternative. It was
      barely sunset, and already her eyelids were drooping. "Perhaps you
      should get some sleep, my sweet," he said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You also, Father. You look very tired," she said, but her voice
      was already fading. Afonso nodded. He'd felt tired for the last
      year, strained by the experience of caring for his late wife and
      his recovering daughter. He watched her fall into a peaceful
      slumber for a few minutes, then went into the kitchen and prepared
      a small dinner and ate in front of the television, watching
      Baovista's latest match. They'd just been promoted to the second
      division, so they were getting thrashed. The score was still
      nil-nil, but it was only a matter of time. Afonso sighed as he
      cleaned up the dishes. No point in watching, he was tired. A small
      noise startled him and he turned to see a large looming figure in
      the kitchen point a stick and say a word. Afonso froze, muscles
      locked, and crashed into the floor. The man - nearly two meters
      tall and with curly black hair and a hardened jaw, looked unkempt,
      like he hadn't shaved in days, but he easily picked up Afonso and
      through him over his shoulder, saying nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Afonso panicked, unable to move. <em class="calibre7">Why am I frozen? And what
      did the man say? It wasn't Portuguese, it sounded vaguely like
      English. Or corrupted Latin, perhaps.</em> Playing the scene back
      in his mind, Afonso was startled to see he was being carried up the
      attic ladder and started to whisper a prayer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he finished, the figured deposited him into a comfortable
      leather chair. The attic wasn't like he'd left it, full of boxes.
      The clutter had been replaced by a reasonable (if spartan) set of
      furniture. Afonso's eye's glanced around and saw a desk, bookshelf,
      chair, and a small mattress on the floor. The figure walked over to
      the small television placed in the center of his view and turned it
      on, pushing a VCR tape into the machine. He then simply went back
      down the ladder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The tv screen flickered for a moment, and then Afonso saw ...
      himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not be afraid, little conqueror," he said. Little conqueror
      was a nickname Afonso's father had bestowed on him when he was
      eight. "The man who did this to you is our guest. He is a warlock,
      or some such. He asked us for help with learning the language and
      the city, and to hide him. In exchange, he is helping Ana. He
      cannot cure her, that is beyond his power, but you've seen he does
      have power. But he is helping. And he has promised that once he is
      fluent in Portuguese he will find someone who can cure her. Perhaps
      we should not believe him. But what can we do? A few hours of
      lessons most nights, and then we forget about him. Perhaps in a
      year, he will be gone. It is a fair deal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While listening with growing confusion, Afonso could hear the
      man downstairs, making a plate of food for himself. By the time the
      tape ended, the heavy footsteps climbed back up the ladder. The man
      set down a rather large sandwich on his writing desk and then took
      out his wand and said a few words. Prepared this time, Afonso
      recognized the words. <em class="calibre7">Finite Incantatem.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"</em>Good evening, Professor Farias, and my apologies," the
      man said. He spoke slowly and carefully, as if following the
      carpenter's adage to measure twice and cut only once. When he
      finished speaking he set down his wand and picked up the sandwich,
      then took a bite. Afonso stood up slowly and cautiously. He started
      to say something, then paused. The man - the warlock, Afonso had
      said on the tape - stopped chewing and swallowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know what you are thinking. About the police," the man said,
      then took another bite, then picked up a sheet of paper and walked
      over and deposited it on the tray table besides the leather chair.
      Afonso picked it up. The handwriting's elegance didn't hide the
      clumsiness of the language, but clearly the man had a much better
      grasp of written Portuguese than spoken. Or perhaps just had more
      time to compose his thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Apart from the fact that you trust your words on the
      television, I am helping your daughter's recovery. Private tutoring
      is a small price to pay for that, even if it must be clumsy because
      you do not remember each session. And since you always ask each
      night, removing your memories is as much for your safety as mine,
      as I have powerful enemies who are hunting for me. And you know the
      police would laugh at you, or much worse.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">As for my name, we've generally gone with Orpheus. Please
      critique the writing on this letter while I finish eating. Also,
      can you tell where I am from?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are English, Orpheus," Afonso said, voice steadying after a
      few words.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know?" asked Orpheus, before taking another
      bite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your accent is good, but your sentence construction betrays
      you. And in any case, no native would consider going to the police
      a serious threat. At least, not from someone who wasn't wealthy."
      Afonso spoke slowly, but Orpheus repeated the sentence back,
      emphasizing a few words, which Afonso translated into English. It
      took several repetitions, but Orpheus grasped it. <em class="calibre7">He is,
      actually, a surprisingly attentive student.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Orpheus nodded at the sentence, one he grasped its meaning, and
      chuckled at the last part before swallowing the last of the
      sandwich.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Afonso looked up. "That is it, isn't it? You will consider
      yourself fluent when I cannot guess your accent?" While Orpheus
      struggled with that sentence, particularly with the word
      <em class="calibre7">fluent</em>, Afonso walked over to the bookshelf and read the
      titles. An entire row of books on elementary Portuguese, and some
      tourist guides for Brazil and also Portugal. More interesting were
      the scrolls and ancient looking tomes that could have been pulled
      from a movie or child's fairy tale. English books with bizarre yet
      somehow mundane sounding names, <em class="calibre7">Intermediate Transfigurations,
      Practical Divinations for Everyone, Runic Lore,</em> and seven
      volumes of Miranda Grawshank's <em class="calibre7">Standard Book of Spells.</em>
      Names that implied that 'wizard' might simply be another trade,
      like professor, lawyer, mechanic or scientist. Beside the bookshelf
      a small cauldron bubbled quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Orpheus said. "You said another year to be fluent. Ana
      should be fine within a few months. I cannot cure her. Healing
      magics are not ... mine. I can brew palliative formulas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A surprisingly complex word, <em class="calibre7">palliative,</em>" Afonso
      said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which you taught me. Now, the letter? I've written more,
      Correct them for mistakes. Formal language for writing, common
      language for speaking. Correct anything I say. We have ninety
      minutes left, to work. Then we both sleep."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - The final chapter will be
      posted on Christmas Eve.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
