<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 63: Destroying the Legend (Epilogue, Part I), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s31" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 63: Destroying the Legend, Epilogue Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Once I saw a Devil in a flame of fire,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">who arose before an Angel that sat on a cloud,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">and the Devil uttered these words.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">'The worship of God is:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Honoring his gifts in other men each according to his
      genius,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">and loving the greatest men best:</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">those who envy or calumniate great men hate God,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">for there is no other God.'"<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres ran through his checklist as he
      floated underwater, just outside the arch leading into
      Atlantis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He held an actual laminated checklist. Studies done nearly
      two-hundred and fifty years ago conclusively demonstrated that even
      experts with thousands of hours of training - like pilots and
      surgeons - sometimes forgot a critical step. Harry considered
      himself the world's foremost living authority on Atlantis. But he
      had no actual experience with it, yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nobody did. The greatest living expert merely meant Harry was
      the least ignorant. He went methodically down his checklist to
      ensure he hadn't forgotten anything. He reviewed the defenses he
      expected to encounter and the correct countermeasures, from first
      down to the last. Reminders as to which spells to favor. He flipped
      the checklist over to the back, then went to the second page.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even by Harry's rather demanding standards he felt prepared. As
      prepared as possible. Harry had spent two decades practicing for
      this moment in an underwater training facility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite what earlier conservative politicians proclaimed, you
      <em class="calibre7">could</em> eventually disband a government agency without
      violent uprising. All you had to do was make the effective human
      life span "<em class="calibre7">As much as you'd care to enjoy</em>" and spend
      several generations training people to think. Once you did
      <em class="calibre7">that</em> even politicians started widening their time horizons
      and raising their level of discourse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took decades longer than he'd hoped. But there had been
      progress.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Humanity no longer lived solely on one single frail eggshell.
      Bowie Base One supported nearly a million souls. The Sovereign Moon
      held a seat on the U.N. Security Council. Some time ago the
      American government ministers (or more likely, their constituents)
      had read the writing on the wall. Humanity had far fewer problems
      during the Third Enlightenment (as the History books called it),
      but they had problems nonetheless. Each innovation <em class="calibre7">usually</em>
      brought more rewards than challenges, but there were constant
      issues to deal with.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And even when all your problems were smaller, you still spent
      most of your time dealing with them. Problems - no matter how big
      or small - required resources to be allocated efficiently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once corporations routinely captured and mined asteroids and
      frontier towns had sprung up on other planets and moons, space had
      long ago ceased to be a 'research' problem, and just one of scale.
      The (original) world's nations had other problems to address and so
      a controversial measure proposed by the Distinguished Gentlewoman
      from Costa Rica made its way into law.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">N.A.S.A had been privatized in 2089.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had snapped up a fair percentage of the assets to prepare
      for his inevitable exploration of Atlantis. He kept one of the
      original Apollo space suits back at Hogwarts because
      <em class="calibre7">obviously</em> they deserved to be seen, and few people alive
      had a real appreciation for that part of humanity's history.
      Publicly buying space trinkets was just Harry being Harry, snapping
      up mementos from a bygone age few remembered was the sort of thing
      people expected Harry Potter to do. It was no stranger than
      anything else he'd done. If Harry could hide his true intentions by
      publicly appearing to be what the media portrayed him as, that was
      fine with him. <em class="calibre7">A good move has multiple purposes.</em> If Harry
      could inspire his students with a few props that was an added
      benefit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But as he made the purchase Harry knew that one day he'd swim
      into Atlantis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once he discovered where it was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd started <em class="calibre7">that</em> task even before his marriage.
      Scholars told him Atlantis would be impossible to find. All legends
      agreed there were no clues and no traces of the civilization to be
      found. But that had not been tested experimentally. He started
      researching, but just in case there really weren't clues or tricks,
      that left Harry one option.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He brute forced it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Before Harry celebrated his thirtieth birthday he'd discovered a
      renowned Muggle exploring the ocean floor and mapping its depths.
      Harry Potter simply introduced himself, demonstrated enough magic
      to be convincing, revealed everything he knew about Atlantis and
      swore him to secrecy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What explorer could resist?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even during the decades Harry Potter spent petrified his
      high-tech search for Atlantis continued. Long after Harry's
      dispirited acolytes had thrown their hands up in frustration and
      abandoned their tasks, one man hunted for Atlantis. After a
      century, it remained undiscovered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry - awake again - went back and re-examined the data. A
      painstaking analysis revealed ... <em class="calibre7">nothing</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry ran the analysis again - this time under the watchful eyes
      of Aurors - they noticed some discrepancies and the tell-tale sign
      of Obliviation. Harry narrowed down the search to a few specific
      sites. After that it was a matter of time, and after another
      decade, the location.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As far as Harry could tell, James Cameron was the first, second
      and fourth person to discover the entrance to Atlantis - only to
      have his memory altered each time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now Harry floated in front of the gate, giddy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had been <em class="calibre7">happy</em> most of his life, but bouts of
      giddy-ness had become increasingly rare. Harry speculated that
      giddy-ness (closely related to surprise) followed a pattern similar
      to the Prime Number Theory and became more infrequent as you got
      older, but never really disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Unlike primes and pure maths (which followed their own deep
      mysteries) Harry could adjust his expected giddyness by trying new
      things. Harry resolutely <em class="calibre7">ignored</em> all arguments that other
      people could do this. Atlantis was not his life's work, but it had
      always been there, in the background, and he was not about to give
      into those who said it was too dangerous for him. So he put aside
      all the words from the people who told him to delegate. Thankfully
      Luna wasn't one of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But he <em class="calibre7">listened</em> to their arguments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry might be risking his life, but life was meant to be lived.
      Still, he'd listened. He'd taken every precaution suggested and
      even more. All he could think of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His backed Bubble Head spell with state of the art rebreather
      equipment, and then scuba equipment. And an emergency rebreather.
      He had a plastic bag full of gillyweed in case things got desperate
      and he decided to stay, and five portkeys to scattered safe spots
      at a variety of depths (to avoid the bends). One portkey led a
      pressurized chamber in London, with healers waiting. Legend said
      you couldn't Apparate <em class="calibre7">into</em> Atlantis but no countermeasures
      prevented leaving, assuming you didn't take anything with you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The stories - evidence was a strong word, too strong for his
      research - <em class="calibre7">felt</em> accurate. Harry knew that wasn't evidence,
      but evidence was not forthcoming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually Plupplup and Blboblb - the Mermish Aurors who'd
      demanded that Harry tell them the location of Atlantis so it could
      be investigated 'by the proper authorities' - had blown bubbles of
      exasperation and agreed to swim just outside Atlantis and allow
      Harry his moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For <em class="calibre7">anyone else</em> (well, almost anyone else) they'd have
      ignored his complaints and gone on their own.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry knew how to use the awe his name inspired. Blboblb and
      Plupplup had asked him nicely instead of simply shutting him down
      when they'd first visited him, decades ago. After Harry demurred,
      they placed a bewildering array of what they considered ridiculous
      demands. They expected Harry to object, after which they would go
      over his head. In the name of safety. Harry's safety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd heard the legends of <em class="calibre7">Harry Potter</em>. But they
      didn't <em class="calibre7">understand</em> them. Not yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry complied with their demands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He turned over every scrap of lore about Atlantis (except its
      location) and agreed that he'd have to best a crack Mermish Auror
      Trio in underwater combat before he'd swim through the gates. Harry
      also agreed that his test would involve situations where he'd swim
      in without advanced knowledge of the territory set up with whatever
      non-lethal trap they desired.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Aurors complained that they had much better facilities for
      this. Harry privately agreed, but didn't want to publicly spend
      years training with Merfolk. Even the Muggle press would grasp the
      implications. But he'd taken sabbaticals at his American retreat
      for decades. That would arouse no suspicion. Harry un-mothballed an
      old NASA underwater training facility, tossed Plupplup the keys and
      said to call when they were ready.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Only then did the two mermen stop and really think about Harry
      Potter's childhood, before he became famous.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They set off to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hadn't had that much fun in decades. It was like the
      childhood he'd never finished.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took years. The Aurors felt surprised after they'd defeated
      Harry the first time. It had been ... <em class="calibre7">easy</em>. Harry Potter
      boasted respectable fighting talent, but the world had caught up
      during his years of stasis. He kept surprises up his sleeves but
      he'd taught his students well. Neither merman had Harry's innate
      cleverness, but they'd been diligent, and had been taught well by
      students of Harry's techniques.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry thanked the Aurors for the battle, learned from his
      mistake, and improved his plan. The next battle took longer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry lost. He reviewed, learned, and studied. Harry Potter had
      all the time in the world. He kept up with his other duties,
      disappearing for a long weekend here and there to relax. Nobody
      really noticed. Harry was never particularly social, but he kept up
      correspondences. Harry lost his third battle and the fourth. As he
      lost battles he won over the Aurors' respect, as they learned the
      fundamental truth about him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter was not a God, just a clever man in an increasingly
      clever world. A world which (thankfully) no longer needed him, but
      respected his position and the influence he'd had. Harry had
      drifted into legend - for a while - but after he'd been revived he
      drifted back out of legend as people met him and judged him. The
      clever ones realized that he'd done everything with the tricks he'd
      taught them. He might have new tricks (there were always new
      tricks) but now they <em class="calibre7">understood</em> his techniques, even if
      they didn't always use them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world had thanked him, rewarded him well, listened to his
      advice and humoured Harry. They let him do pretty much anything he
      wanted, within reason. And sometimes beyond reason, at least in
      this case. That's what the Aurors had initially done. But as they
      defeated him over and over with less and less margin for error they
      watched the smiling man thank them, retreat, recover, regroup and
      rejoin the fight. Within two years Harry was a knowledgeable
      underwater tactician, albeit with physical skills only equal to a
      Mermish teenager.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Within five years, he routinely defeated unsuspecting Mermish
      Aurors in underwater duel.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After ten years Blboblb formally withdrew his objection. Harry
      Potter said there was no rush and he still had much to learn. After
      twenty years he'd defeated every challenge they could think of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then - and only then - Harry started preparations in earnest. He
      could finally see the endgame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been fun. He thought he probably could have done it ten
      years, maybe eight. <em class="calibre7">You can't rush physical skills</em>. But
      he'd only spent a third of his time preparing for Atlantis. He'd
      had policies to craft, made sure to spend time with all the friends
      he accumulated over his life. As Harry said, there was no rush, and
      much more important matters to attend to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The melding of Science and Magic meant barriers fell at an
      amazing pace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Practically every day another iota of enlightenment could be
      squeezed from the advances. Every decade saw another major
      discovery. Grasping the implications an exploring them was Harry's
      full time job. The speed of light hadn't fallen. There were still
      hopes, but the maths were difficult. Research was slow and (by
      definition) had no fixed endpoint. Humanity had time to expand but
      eventually even the solar system would get full.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Births had fallen dramatically, but not nearly as dramatically
      as deaths.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Construction of the Dyson Disk had already started. It wouldn't
      house anyone for centuries and would probably never be finished.
      For now, they were only using materials already in orbit, but at
      some point those would run out ... by now most people doubted that
      the speed of light would ever be defeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry demurred an opinion. Prophecy was a tricky thing. Harry
      was just a man, but he had insider information. and how could he
      destroy the very stars if he couldn't get to them? In any case,
      assuming that they were stuck in this solar system was practical
      for now, so Harry just shrugged his shoulders and let the
      physicists do their work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's other main task was the same it had ever been.
      Encouraging and educating humanity. Now - thanks to his legend -
      that task consumed most of his time. if not much of his
      thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had a canned intro he used during the numerous speeches he
      gave. Commencement speeches at Schools of Wizardry around the world
      were all basically the same. The speaker, some accomplished
      whitchard who seemed ancient to hir teenaged students but was a
      century Harry's junior, would extoll Harry's accomplishments - all
      long overshadowed by those who stood on his shoulders - and end
      with something like "I am honoured to present your speaker, the
      Legend, The Boy-Who-Lived, Harry Potter!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had his speech memorized, but held a note card with the
      Symposiarch's name. (The sole item on his "Speech" preparation
      checklist). Harry would smile and nod or wave as the mood struck
      him, then go into his speech.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, but I would like to remind <em class="calibre7">insert previous
      speaker's title and name here</em> that we live in the Age of
      Symbiosis. I am not a legend, just a man. Perhaps a man ahead of
      his time, as people say. But times have caught up and surpassed me.
      The times have surpassed us all, even you who are about to embark
      on your new adventures. Our worlds are too big for any one person
      to explore, but that also means that they are big enough that any
      one person can find something new. You can be the first to glimpse
      some distant vista or uncover some new scientific principle. Build
      a better boggart trap. Invent a new flavor of ice cream. Age is no
      barrier. The only barriers exist inside you. If you have a strong
      desire, a good work ethic, a bit of cleverness, and the courage to
      believe in yourself, you can do anything. Those four attributes
      make the Herald of a little school I attended long ago and ran a
      while later. You may have heard of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry would wait for the polite laughter at his unfunny joke to
      die down before continuing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They say I'm a legend, but I'm just a man. There are no more
      mystical figures of legend. As a former legend I can tell you a
      secret: Not only are there no more, there never were. No legends.
      Just people. Any of you ... no make that all of you ... could
      become what people call a legend. But if you do you'll learn what I
      know. You'll feel the same. If you become a quote legend unquote
      you'll get there the way any quote normal person does. Because
      there are just people. There are no legends."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was another applause line, and every time when Harry gave
      his speech he paused for the claps and murmured approvals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But during that moment - before he pivoted into the main topic,
      whatever lesson he felt like discussing that day - as he said the
      final words and explained that there were no legends, while he
      waited for the applause to die...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In that moment a small voice in his head <em class="calibre7">always</em> spoke
      up. To chide Harry and remind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There is still one legend left.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That voice that kept Harry focused during the long decades. That
      voice - which sometimes named <em class="calibre7">Gryffindor</em>, sometimes
      <em class="calibre7">Slytherin</em>, sometimes <em class="calibre7">Ravenclaw</em> but usually
      <em class="calibre7">Hufflepuff</em> - strengthened Harry's resolve to complete the
      Herculean tasks set before him by those Aurors. <em class="calibre7">That voice</em>
      forced him to smile when he wanted to rant, to persevere past most
      people's endurance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was the voice Harry worked to quiet. And on this day he
      would succeed. Harry Potter swam through the gates of Atlantis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The time had come to destroy one more legend and rescue one
      man.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
