<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 65: The Marriage of Heaven &amp; Hell (Epi III), a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s33" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 65: The Marriage of Heaven &amp; Hell, Epilogue Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"did he not mock at the sabbath,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">and so mock the sabbath's God?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">murder those who were murdered because of him?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">turn away the law from the woman taken in adultery?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">steal the labor of others to support him?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">bear false witness when he omitted making a defense before
      Pilate?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I tell you, no virtue can exist with breaking these ten
      commandments.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Jesus was all virtue, and acted from impulse, not from
      rules."</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">They swam towards the agora, their conversation businesslike and
      focused solely on the present. Schools of fish danced around
      Atlantis. Harry and Alexio watched the darting silvery forms and
      leveled their wands towards any who swam too near. But no group
      approached too closely, they always veered away. Sometimes a school
      briefly split into two before inevitably rejoining along a path
      angled safely away from the two wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio and Harry had already encountered a Chinese wizard
      solemnly standing in Taoist robe and gently waving a hand fan made
      of crane feathers. He appeared in the distance, standing inside a
      large room-sized bubble that seemed to follow his will. Spotting
      them, the wizard pointed his fan towards Harry and Alexio and the
      bubble approached, perhaps propelled by advantageous currents,
      before stopping a respectful distance away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three considered each other for a tense moment of detente
      before Harry used his translating bauble (as Alexio called it) to
      negotiate a truce.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Chinese Wizard proclaimed no knowledge of a mirror, and
      sought only the Seven Virtuous Herbs. After a brief exchange, they
      agreed to keep well apart. With a whisk of his fan, the bubble
      moved away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pair had less luck with a Scandanavian witch with
      short-trimmed blonde hair, sharp glances and bony angles. After
      negotiations stretched past a quarter hour Alexio simply launched a
      bewildering array of hexes at the woman. They didn't get past her
      shields, but after overcoming his surprise Harry sighed and joined
      Alexio's attack, pausing only to ask what had led Alexio to act
      rashly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Few can withstand our combined onslaught," Alexio calmly
      explained as he twisted his wand and two moray eels appeared behind
      the witch, quickly wriggling through the water and then gnawing at
      her shields. Alexio did not bother stopping, and launched into
      another spell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those who made it Atlantis are not randomly selected," Harry
      snarled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But if the witch's talents were exceptional, they did not
      manifest during battle. A minute later she floated limply in the
      water, an annoyed look on her face. Harry turned to Alexio, who
      simply shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry murmured "Boring conversation, anyway," as he placed a
      small branch underneath the woman's arm and snapped it. Then she
      was gone and the water rushed into to fill the void left by her
      absence with a sharp thud as they surveyed the situation. They
      could make out distant forms - human forms - moving throughout
      Atlantis. Time had become an issue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pointed at a large building, with its columned foyer
      reaching out into the water looking for all the world like an
      inviting mouth opened into a lecherous smile. "There?" he asked and
      Alexio nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The <em class="calibre7">Centro Civil</em>," Alexio said, swimming towards the
      mouth. "It will be there, if legends speak true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio felt the wave of pressure as something swam past, and
      started casting instantly as though his wand were connected
      straight to his autonomic system, without active control of his
      higher functions. Harry, slightly slower, shouted <em class="calibre7">Ventus</em>
      then repeated the spell to his left and right. Before the third
      spell resolved Alexio had caught on and followed suit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The simple spell - a child's spell, really - worked profoundly
      well underwater. The gust of wind instantly impacted the waiting
      water and cavitated into thousands of small bubbles that swirled
      and churned and spun chaotically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bubbles not only formed a visual shield and provided cover,
      the currents would flip and spin anyone caught inside. The bubbles
      also obscured Alexio's vision but not before he saw the flash of a
      limb where nothing had been before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now he had a target.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio fired off two spells, the first a simple <em class="calibre7">Lagann.</em>
      A child's spell meant as a distraction. The second spell was in a
      language that Harry didn't understand, but the magic made him
      shudder. Harry felt the force of the spell, an Ecaudorian spell of
      pain and maiming Alexio had taken from a warlord who fancied
      himself a dark wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio took no chances against unseen threats, and was smoothly
      transitioning into a third spell even as Harry shouted at him to
      stop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spells streaked towards through the water and then
      <em class="calibre7">slowed to a stop</em> in front of the form slowly resolving as
      bubbles floated up and out of the way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You always did have terrible choices in friends, Harry Potter.
      Except for me, of course," Hermione Granger said, as she grabbed
      for something unseen and stuffed it into a backpack.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio's jaw set. In the back of his mind, Draco almost dropped
      character as Hermione Granger gently tugged on the strands of his
      spell, pulling it apart before looking up at them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So. Who's your friend?" Hermione asked as she made a flicking
      motion with her wand. Alexio's glowing spell throbbed angrily, then
      streaked away as though shot from a cannon, before disappearing up
      into the shimmering blue light overhead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Alexio, Hermione Granger," Harry said while waving hands
      between the two of them. "Hermione, just so you know we're in ... I
      don't know, a fixed point in time. Alexio and I come from different
      eras. Judging from the looks of you, I'd say you were from my past.
      Distant past."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio looked at Hermione while she considered this, and Draco
      peeked out through his eyes. He hadn't seen her in the flesh since
      they'd been children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio had arranged to never share her presence during the Grand
      Convocation, when he'd trapped Harry. Hermione had somehow escaped.
      Of course she'd escaped, even when Harry hadn't. While he'd never
      seen her since the days of Hogwarts, the Girl-Who-Revived's
      celebrity status allowed Alexio to track her for decades without
      arousing the slightest suspicion. Hermione Granger's fans numbered
      in the millions, she'd had dozen of stalkers, and political
      operatives with any sense the world over followed her
      movements.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would have seemed suspicious if a man in his position
      <em class="calibre7">hadn't</em> tracked her. Alexio had plenty of images of
      adult-Hermione to compare to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That didn't make it easier. Hermione seemed practically ageless,
      once she'd reached adulthood. He couldn't tell. <em class="calibre7">She hadn't
      seemed surprised to see Harry alive.</em> On the other hand, she'd
      seen them first and may have gotten over her shock before deciding
      to play her prank. <em class="calibre7">Had she not realized that sneaking up on
      them would provoke an attack?</em> Impossible. Perhaps she worried
      that it was not actually Harry, some imposter with Polyjuice.
      Perhaps she worried he'd been <em class="calibre7">Imperiused</em>. It was too much.
      Too many variables to consider. And the "terrible choice of
      friends," was that barb directed at Alexio? Or Draco?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio suspected that this version of Hermione predated his
      attack on Harry. He couldn't be sure. If she was younger, from his
      past, then she'd accumulated power at a rate that made him envious.
      Then again, she hadn't hid and built her powerbase from scratch.
      Alexio looked down towards the ocean floor beneath them,
      considering, as she answered Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That makes sense. From what you told me Chang's Process of the
      Timeless trapped Dumbledore. Wherever he is should be timeless,
      too," Hermione said as she swam down between them. Harry and Alexio
      swam smoothly, but it seemed like Hermione just willed herself into
      place with subtle gestures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The effect was unsettling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, Alexio," she asked, ignoring Harry, "What brings you to
      Atlantis?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I warn you, Hermione Granger," Alexio said, packing the words
      with as much machismo as he dared, "I am a married man."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glared at him, but didn't say anything, which was
      always a fine tactic for revealing little. Alexio laughed. "I
      apologize. I could not resist. It is just that you sounded like a
      pickup line."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spoke up, quietly but firmly. "Alexio is here to rescue
      Dumbledore, like I am."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Like we are," Hermione said, with a look of determination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They swam along. As they came to the entrance, a submersible all
      rigid bubbles placed at impossible angles swam by. A surprised
      looking woman stared at them through a viewport. The angles
      distorted her face monstrously, like a funhouse mirror. Alexio
      suspected that device could handle depths much deeper than the
      coastal plains they were swimming through. A robotic arm waved
      hello and scrolling text appeared along the side that seemed to be
      an introduction in broken english, but there were letters Draco
      didn't recognize, and accents marks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head and they ducked into the building.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"When he had so spoken,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">I beheld the Angel,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">who stretched out his arms,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">embracing the flame of fire</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">&amp; he was consumed</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">and arose as Elijah"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them stared at the waterfall flowing rapidly
      through the transom in a thick billowing curtain. Behind the falls,
      which looked to be merely a foot thick, they could see an archway,
      and through the archway stood the back of the mirror. Alexio stared
      at it, looking exactly the same as it had so long ago. It was no
      more than fifty feet from them, but they were separated from it by
      the waterfall. Water flowed from just below the ceiling down to the
      floor and bounced in crashing waves of unnaturally cerulean blues.
      Vivid hallucinatory blues that bounced once or twice across the
      marble floor before disappearing. Blues that spoke of beaches and
      skies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And if the waterfall noticed that the entire structure was
      underwater, that it flowed through ocean water instead of air, it
      gave no indication.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's like one of those hypnotic wave machines from my
      childhood, with two colours of water that never mix but just rock
      back and forth," Hermione offered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We could go through the transom," Harry said, but he sounded
      dubious. The water flowed out of the transom but there was a gap
      above the water. A small gap. It seemed so obvious to swim through
      the gap that it must be a trap, which meant that perhaps it
      wasn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I doubt Hermione would fit. Myself? Never." Alexio said. He had
      half a foot over Harry Potter, and at least one hundred pounds.
      Probably more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of them approached the flowing water, or had approached
      close enough to risk getting splashed by any of the droplets.
      They'd cast a variety of spells in numerous languages. None even
      registered the waterfall's existence or affected it in any way.
      Harry had stopped looking at the waterfall and was now examining
      the rest of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you don't mind my asking," Alexio said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're not supposed to. Temporal Paradoxes and whatnot,"
      Hermione shot back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not your past. Just ... where did you learn to stop spells?
      Physically stop them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hogwarts, of course. The famous David Monroe," she saw by his
      look that he'd heard of him. Most of the Wizarding world had, in
      the years following Harry's second defeat of Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"David Monroe taught you that?" Alexio said, sounding
      amazed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well... not exactly. He showed me it could be done," Hermione
      admitted. "I worked out the details on my own. What did you find,
      Harry?" she added, because Harry was waving them over. They swam to
      a side wall, which was covered in runes. Obscure runes, older yet
      similar to anything he'd studied. Alexio felt like he knew them. He
      realized he did know them, even though he'd never seen them
      before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Runes that definitely had not been there when they first
      arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Negation," Harry said, pointing to the rune at Twelve
      o'clock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Identity." Draco said, pointing to the Rune at Three
      o'clock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfection," Hermoine said, not bothering to point at the Six
      o'clock rune.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unity," Harry finished. Nine o'clock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You never took Runes, Harry," Hermione said reproachfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I know what they mean," Harry said. "I don't understand it.
      I've encountered this before, but its definitely Atlantean magic.
      Not the same as before, but similar. Knowledge, without really
      understanding."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I feel it, too. Your translation feels roughly right. Not
      correct, but how Harry James Potter would describe those runes.
      Each rune has too many meanings. Its like Ancient Chinese, each
      word could be a verb or a noun, singular or plural. In any case,
      its a contradiction. <em class="calibre7">'Negation is perfect unity'</em> doesn't
      make sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio looked at the runes, which to him felt like poetry and
      not maths.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione started listing off interpretations "'<em class="calibre7">Reversing the
      Self creates the universe</em>', no. '<em class="calibre7">Opposing viewpoints
      resolve into answers</em>', true but how does that help?
      '<em class="calibre7">Enemies are ...'</em> I can't even figure out how to finish
      that, '<em class="calibre7">perfectly together.'</em> That's more a mantra, like
      <em class="calibre7">Imagine</em> by Jon Lennon. '<em class="calibre7">Failure leads to true
      success.'</em> It's like a bad philosophy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio smiled, as the translation coalesced in his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We now have a problem," Alexio interrupted. "For beyond this
      arch rests the mirror that has trapped Albus Dumbledore. Once we
      swim through it, Who shall he return with?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm the obvious choice, assuming that I'm correct in the most
      future timeline," Harry said, automatically. "To send him to my
      past presents problems."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, but Albus Dumbledore may be confused by the changes. No, he
      should go to the newest timeline, and hide himself from us until
      later," Alexio added. "We can tell him, before we depart, from when
      we each came."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why does he have to go to our time? Perhaps he's secretly
      Merlin?" Hermione said. "In any case, you seem to be ignoring the
      obvious problem of how we're going to get past this enchanted
      waterfall. Not to mention freeing the Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot get past it," Alexio said. "But we? We three can
      simply swim through it together. After that, well, we each had a
      plan to free Dumbledore. At least one will work. I have no
      doubt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You got that from the Runes? That doesn't make sense."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unlike you, I am not always rational," Alexio admitted. "In my
      defense, I have the soul of a poet. And I have read this poem
      elsewhere - in English, no less! I think the Atlanteans, whatever
      else they were, understood people. They had a nobility, and these
      runes are a proclamation of it. It is not a warning. They have
      never threatened us. The real danger here has been others. Those
      wizards and witches we have seen. The Atlanteans will not hurt us,
      although they may vex us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could sooner destroy the world with a block of cheese,"
      Harry said. Alexio did not take the meaning, but he could see that
      Hermione did.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You aren't serious considering this, Harry?" she asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio smiled. "If you like, I can go first. If the falls
      consume me horribly, then you will know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you smiling?" Hermione asked. Even though she was
      surrounded by a bubble head charm, the words escaped like hisses
      bubbling away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I have hope, and hope has been precious rare to me for
      some time. I prefer my translation to yours. You have captured the
      words, but not the essence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is the translation?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot tell her," Alexio said sheepishly. "There is
      information she must not have. Not yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced between the two of them, then abruptly spun and
      swam away to the other side of the room. Alexio cast several spells
      to ensure that he could not be heard, and Harry cast a few of his
      own, then put down his wand. Hermione could see them leaning
      together, just for a second, but the spells cancelled all
      communication, not just sounds. She couldn't make out the large
      man's lips as he spoke a few words. They had a conversation that
      lasted several minutes, but she couldn't read anything from it. She
      couldn't make out any detail at all that gave her a clue, it was a
      rare and infuriating experience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione saw them reverse their spells and swam back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm satisfied," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can't be! It doesn't make sense. This isn't like you,
      Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This isn't like me from your time, true. But I have privileged
      information. As Alexio has inferred, I know quite a bit about my
      past and your future. He explained his rationale for his actions,
      and gave me a nice translation that seems to be more than
      coincidence."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least tell me the source," Hermione said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For anyone else I would consider it, but you're too well read
      and with your memory ... well, you might make a few inductive leaps
      and then I've upset the timeline ... Anyway, you know how Time
      Turners work. All the laws of time travel indicate neither of you
      die or are seriously injured at the time. That, coupled with what I
      know about the mirror, makes me think think that worst case? We'll
      all pop back into where we came from. Have any of you ever heard of
      anyone questing for Atlantis and suffering physical harm? My
      research hasn't"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Scandanavian witch, Mamseil Arfvidsson, said that during her
      trip to Atlantis she was attacked by a pair of demons, one
      monstrous and terrifying the other delicate and cunning ... oh
      Harry," she folded her arms and glared at the two of them but
      mainly Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We weren't that bad," Harry said. "We just stunned her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She started it," Alexio chimed in, shrugging his shoulders.
      "Indirectly, perhaps. No doubt she exaggerated to bolster her
      reputation and salvage something from the expedition."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, If you two fools are going to go first, I hardly see any
      reason to wait around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Alexio held out his hand and led the trio through the doorway,
      and as the water crashed around him, he smiled. He didn't know what
      the future held, but he had hope.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled at both of them. "After we're finished, I have no
      idea what I'll do for fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just snorted bubbles, gently blowing her hair from out
      of her face. "I imagine you'll find something ... annoying," she
      said, as the swam off together towards the mirror.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Note. This Angel,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">who is now become a Devil,</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">is my particular friend."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">- William Blake, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - This ends my epilogue, which I
      conceived about a half year ago as a way to continue my story
      (slightly) and also try to answer lingering questions on Draco's
      motivations and beliefs. I have beliefs (rather firm ones) about
      how the story continues, but these beliefs aren't about any
      specific facts as to "how" things happen, but about how the Trinity
      view each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I did not intend DMPOR as a depressing story, though some took
      it that way. The William Blake quotes contain much more of my true
      beliefs than I had imagined possible. (And, just for the record, I
      wrote my draft - with interspersed quotes - prior to the
      publication of the Significant Digits epilogue, which I was
      terrified would also have the rescue of Albus Dumbledore as a plot
      device. So, I dodged one bullet, but the similarity of running
      quotes is duplicated. Ah well.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you look through <em class="calibre7">The Marriage of Heaven and Hell</em>,
      you will find Draco's translation of the Atlantean Runes and
      understand why their appearance gave him hope. I tried to work it
      into the story, but the writing was clumsy, and after several
      months I cut it out and it works better if the reader fills in the
      details. But I have been too opaque in the past, hence this
      note.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Update 9/8</em> - It turns out that what I thought was the
      quote in MoHH is (in fact) not in every copy, and may just be the
      title of one of the engravings. It is listed in some copies, but
      not others. Given that, here is the quote in Rot13: <em class="calibre7">Bccbfvgvba
      vf gehr sevraqfuvc</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  

</body></html>
