<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2 - Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality Chapter 37: Wargames, Part 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="47. Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s5" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 37: Wargames, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">"Disguise yourself, but remember where the disguise ends and
      self begins." - Lucius Malfoy</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Drawing proceeded briskly with a separate barrel for each
      house and no pause between students, unlike the Sorting. Students
      moved quickly to their barrel, thrust in a hand, pulled out a stone
      and with a flash their robes changed to announce their faction. The
      drawing started slowly, but after the first students' robes changed
      the effect felt routine. Now people moved along steadily as yet
      again the magical became mundane. A few minutes into the Drawing
      there was a brilliant green flash, brighter than normal, and
      everyone stopped chatting. Percy Weasley's brilliant robes had
      acquired a prominent green sash and locket. The first leader had
      been revealed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The twins let out a groan. "Come on, Purple!" drawled Fred or
      George, to great laughter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hurry along," said Headmistress McGonagall, standing at the
      lectern overlooking the four rows of students moving slowly to the
      barrels, "We haven't all night."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco sat next to Gregory, it would take about fifteen minutes
      before the older students finished. Gryffindors just rushed their
      barrel, Hufflepuffs moved in an orderly fashion that made sense to
      them, and nobody understood the Ravenclaw system. Slytherins queued
      by seniority and the fifth year was up. Another flash and everyone
      turned to see Lesath Lestrange wearing the purple sash of
      leadership.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath blanched slightly then returned to his seat. Other
      students in purple robes moved to join him but nobody spoke once
      they'd selected their colour – Professor Lockhart had indicated
      that the stones had several charms on them (apart from the
      robe-changing charm) to ensure fairness. Students who picked later
      weren't at a disadvantage for plotting. The room grew quieter as
      people selected. Draco thought it imbued the process with the
      dignity it sorely needed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lesath as leader, huh," Gregory said. "He looks like he's going
      to be sick. What will we do if we get Purple?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Follow Lesath," Draco said, automatically. About a quarter of
      the people's robes gave no obvious sign of any change. They could
      be civilians, such as he'd been in the Autumn battle when he'd lost
      his arm. Or perhaps sleepers. Draco reminded himself that some
      people who had purple robes were probably secretly green, and vice
      versa.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Lockhart stepped up to the lectern. Apparently with
      half the students sitting mutely the room was quiet enough for
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"While we're still picking, I'd like to say that the rules are
      simplicity itself," Professor Lockhart said. "Each side has four
      leaders, and when all four are dead that side has lost. In order to
      make up for the relatively vast differences in spell casting power,
      the only spells that can be used are <em class="calibre7">Somnium</em> and your
      <em class="calibre7">Patronus,</em> for those who can cast it. That means that
      everyone is on roughly equal footing with seventh years. Those are
      the basics, but the rules are not simple. For example, some
      individuals will be allowed more complex spells, and they'll know
      who they are. Rest assured that these individuals, like the
      leadership sashes, are determined randomly. Casting a spell that
      you know in real life but not in the game will lead to
      disqualification. To ensure that this particular War doesn't take
      longer than the weekend, there will be some rules that come into
      play around lunchtime Sunday, to speed things up. Should it come to
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Additionally you will all receive tidbits of information,
      mostly true<em class="calibre7">.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco glanced behind him and saw Harry Potter smiling gleefully.
      Draco hadn't been wrong, at the beginning of the year. Harry really
      did love the battles, but had withheld himself out of them for some
      reason. But with an all-school war, Harry was involved again.
      <em class="calibre7">Why had he denied himself the pleasure?</em> Was this part of
      Voldemort's curse that Hermione had mentioned? That didn't make
      sense, he'd have to sit this fight out as well. Perhaps Harry had
      solved the curse. He hadn't said anything. But Draco could see
      Harry's joy and Harry, seeing Draco, gave a nod and a thumbs up,
      then held up his hand to his heart and rubbed his fingers across
      his chest diagonally, then pointed to Lesath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was still the Green leader for Slytherin and they were
      almost done with the third years. Draco shrugged, it's not like he
      could control the selection, so what was the point of worrying or
      hoping? Draco and the rest of the second years got up, Professor
      Lockhart still talking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...because, of course, while duels win battles, good
      intelligence wins wars. So there you go. Also, based on some
      feedback I've decided not to institute detention for those who
      died, unless you get disqualified. However, only members of the
      winning tribe will be invited to the victory feast, and I'm told
      the House Elves will really outdo themselves for dessert."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco's turn was up and he quickly reached into the barrel and
      grabbed the first stone, as his fingers closed around it his robes
      flashed to Purple. Gregory went after him and also got Purple.
      Draco went back to his seat, head turned, watching the line. Harry
      was almost up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Green Leader still hadn't been selected. Worrying served no
      purpose, but Draco couldn't help himself. <em class="calibre7">Just my luck to have
      Harry draw it, instead of me</em>. Actually, that wouldn't be so
      bad. Draco started to work out the possibilities. In many ways it
      would be refreshing, fighting Harry as part of a game, but a quick
      flash revealed Harry without any special markings or sash. Just
      green robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took in stride and went back to the green side of the
      Slytherin table. Most of the houses had naturally divided
      themselves into their respective two sides. Draco glanced around
      the other tables, it seemed that seven of the leaders had been
      selected, and he didn't know any of them well. He knew Marcus
      Belby, the Purple Leader for Ravenclaw, somewhat. Glancing at the
      Gryffindor table, he saw that Hermione's hair tumbling across the
      shoulders of her green robe. <em class="calibre7"><br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Slytherin first years were drawing their stones and – with a
      bright flash – Colin Creevey blinked several times and stared down
      at the green sash of leadership, before breaking out a huge grin
      and practically skipping on his way back to the table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Now that's interesting,</em> Draco thought, <em class="calibre7">He'll just
      go to Potter for advice. It's like Harry being in charge, but with
      a delay.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see that we are about done. Some final announcements. Once
      you get back to your room, there will be mail delivery, you are all
      familiar with the procedure. You'll be given a few minutes to
      digest any information you receive. At the signal, the war begins.
      And remember, no spells can be cast by you or at you when you are
      at home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several students tried to say something, but nothing came out.
      Ginny Weasley frantically jumped up and down but Professor Lockhart
      shook his headwhile taking out his wand. "<em class="calibre7">Since there are no
      questions</em>," he said, smilingly, and he waved his wand over the
      crowd and said a chant that Draco couldn't quite make out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco found himself sitting in his own bed. He lifted his head
      and saw Gregory and Harry's bewildered looks.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up, shock of disorientation fading. <em class="calibre7">You can't
      apparate in Hogwarts</em> which begged the question of what had
      just happened. The easiest way would be to just false memory charm
      everyone to go to their rooms and forget the walk. Had any time
      passed? Harry glanced down at his watch, and sure enough it was
      almost 7:30. Nearly fifteen minutes missing. Harry gritted his
      teeth, false memory charms should be banned, although this one – if
      it was one, and not some more powerful, subtle spell – seemed
      harmless enough. Just overly dramatic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In any case, Harry's more urgent concern involved leaving the
      room alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's another fine mess you've gotten us into, Draco,"
      Harry joked. Gregory looked sharply over at him, while Draco cocked
      his head slightly, watching Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Vene lalare bokor sohap hewelog baramie tomotim ciep toluwan
      wi?" Gregory said, looking at Draco. Draco now turned his head
      towards Gregory, but kept his eyes on Harry. There was something in
      how he was watching them, Harry recognized that Draco was plotting.
      Already.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco shrugged and said, "Na cinarieg rietiehi arepod erusitot
      Petter huger hihulog." Harry thought <em class="calibre7">Petter</em> may refer to
      him. Apparently Lockhart had cast another spell to make the two
      teams unable to understand each other. That … <em class="calibre7">made sense</em>.
      Draco said something to Harry, the intonation sounded like a
      question, but Harry just shook his head <em class="calibre7">No</em> and raised his
      hands in a helpless shrug.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Often warring factions would be co-located, but separated by
      different native languages. Perhaps Professor Lockhart had used
      some warring tribes model, like some of the brewing European
      conflicts that the Muggle Parliament fretted about. Another way to
      differentiate the two factions. But had Draco said his name?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gregory," Harry said, loudly. Gregory looked over. Draco and
      Gregory exchanged a few phrases.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Herry," Gregory said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded and pointed to himself. Then pointed to Gregory and
      said "Gregory," and then pointed to Draco and said "Draco."
      <em class="calibre7">This experiment probably helped them more than it helped me, oh
      well.</em> Harry eyed the room. He was closest to the door and if
      he dove for it once the war started he'd probably be able to make
      it out. Draco and Gregory spoke quickly and he didn't recognize any
      more names, so they'd probably stopped referring to people
      directly. <em class="calibre7">Definitely helped them more than me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, that wasn't necessarily so bad. They were involved in a
      wargame, but just a game and not necessarily zero-sum. In the
      strict sense, there could only be one winner, but if the process
      enhanced the prestige of everyone in the room that would be a nice
      benefit. <em class="calibre7">Still, no more experiments.</em> Harry considered the
      problem of escaping. Then he kicked himself, and got up out of his
      bed. Gregory and Draco instantly had their wands out, but then
      stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The war hadn't started, not yet. There'd been no mail, and no
      signal. Harry took a few steps towards his chest before Draco and
      Gregory were up, collecting items from around the room and tossing
      them onto their beds. Harry went into his trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry already stored emergency equipment in his pouch, but took
      a quick inventory just to make sure it hadn't been tampered with.
      He'd witnessed the fall battle in the lake, when the other young
      Slytherins had been abducted without any gear. He still had
      everything he expected. He grabbed a vial of Polyjuice and put it
      carefully into his pouch. It probably wasn't worth using now, but
      '<em class="calibre7">Be Prepared</em>' rang in his head. Harry felt guilty, but
      there were no rules against it. He certainly wouldn't use anything
      unreasonably powerful, nothing whose existence he dare not reveal.
      Harry considered leaving the potion behind, just to keep himself
      from being tempted, but Polyjuice potions were merely expensive,
      not rare. He packed it in his pouch. It probably belonged there in
      any case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry heard the flutter of wings and raced out of the trunk and
      jumped onto his bed. The owls had dropped off their letters and
      were already back at the window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gregory and Draco were hastily shoving spare wands into
      holsters. Draco had changed into his more formal robes, but they'd
      apparently changed colour as soon as he put them on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was a good idea," Harry said to nobody. Draco looked over
      and Harry pointed to Draco's robes and then laughed. Draco just
      shook his head, and there was something odd in the way he was
      acting. Draco had been sleeping poorly, even Harry had noticed. He
      may just be tired. That was another important discussion to
      have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">When he could talk to Draco.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter opened up his letter:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Daphne Greengrass (who wears a neutral robe) is secretly
      loyal to green.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You are allowed to cast Expelliarmus, in addition to
      standard spells. If you cast this on your leader successfully, you
      steal the leadership stash. (This is true for anyone).</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">The purple leader of Slytherin is immune to
      Somnium.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">You may summon a house elf once every twelve hours to bring
      a small set of rations by loudly asking for "Emergency Food,
      please!". Only one student in ten has this ability. If your house
      elf is shot by a spell during this time you lose this
      ability.<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry chuckled at the last one. <em class="calibre7">He</em> could summon the
      house elf already, but this made sense in game. In real wars lack
      of food was a confounding factor. If this went for a full two days
      some students would be able to dole out food. Nobody would be in
      danger of starving, but it would add level of stress. Harry
      wondered when the twelve hours reset. In any case, he had a full
      pouch of Granola bars and bottles of water, but he'd never planned
      on supporting multiple people for days. That was a gross oversight,
      he'd stock up and buy several weeks worth of rations for a small
      team. <em class="calibre7">Just in case</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry went back to reading.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">There are twelve traitors.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered this. Roughly three traitors per house, one or
      two each side, if they were divided evenly. Which meant that he
      shouldn't worry about traitors too much. From a strictly numerical
      point of view most people wouldn't be a traitor. Giving this
      information wasn't unrealistic. In a real battle you'd have to
      worry about this. However, as a simulation, Harry had to admit it
      worked pretty well. It gave him a rough estimate to work with. A
      <em class="calibre7">base error rate</em>. Paradoxically, rarer traitors could do
      incredible damage if everyone automatically trusted everyone else.
      If everyone suspected everyone else then the resulting security
      level would supress traitors. But with so few, security would (in
      most cases) be counterproductive. The classic tradeoff. Harry
      decided to focus on rooting out the (approximately) one and a half
      traitors wearing green Slytherin robes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His first step: discover if there were passwords for the purple
      traitors secretly loyal to green. Presumably Colin would be given
      that information. If not, he could ask around. There was no reason
      that purple and green would have symmetric security measures, but
      those kind of things often happened, in simulations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What else did the letters imply? Assume each student got three
      to seven facts of information, even if they were all duplicated
      several times – they probably were, so people could separate fact
      from fiction - there were still hundreds of facts in this game.
      Again, this worked as a realistic simulation. In the real world you
      wouldn't necessarily know many details about your enemies.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This was going to be fun.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He read the rest of the facts, which dealt with who he could
      trust from other houses. Harry read the scroll several times, once
      again wishing there was a spell to give him Hermione's perfect
      recall. Suddenly there was a loud roar echoing throughout the halls
      that set his teeth on edge and Harry's scroll – along with Draco's
      and Gregory's – crumbled, the pieces of paper blown out the window
      by the fading echoes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took out his wand. Draco and Gregory did likewise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It occurs to me that I could do a lot of good keeping the two
      of you bottled up in here," Harry said. "I mean, if it was
      <em class="calibre7">just</em> Draco and me, I'd probably be better of going. But
      you've got a broom, Gregory, and I don't imagine that they've
      suddenly made you a bad flyer. You could go tearing around the
      hallways, picking people off." Harry kept flicking glances between
      Gregory and Draco. Draco looked puzzled, probably trying to figure
      out what Harry's game was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But where's the fun in that?" Harry said and jumped up and
      raced for the door, wand out. Draco fired at him but nothing
      happened and then Draco was jumping behind his bed - putting it
      between them as a shield - but Harry was already out of the room
      before the first <em class="calibre7">Somnium</em> was cast. He laughed at Draco's
      shouted word, even a <em class="calibre7">Babel</em> spell didn't mask his
      meaning.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre8"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Author's Note</strong> - The gibberish above is just
      gibberish. Not code or anything.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
