<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest - Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest Chapter 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Tom Riddle and Albus
      Dumbledore</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Authors Notes:</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is <strong class="calibre7"><span>loosely</span></strong> based on HPMOR's
      Tom Riddle and the mechanics and facts of the story.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However I elaborate and change known facts as I see fit for the
      sake of the story. I also borrow facts and details from the
      original HP series.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter One - Tom Riddle and Albus
      Dumbledore</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom stood in the pitch dark of his private dorm. Having
      extinguished the glowing torches on the wall of his room, he
      carefully set his wand on his desk, and then closed his eyes. He
      deftly navigated around his desk and past his bed into the center
      of the room. <em class="calibre8">How many times did I have to practice this dance
      before I achieved perfection?</em> He wondered idly, smiling to
      himself. The average wizard would never even consider that they may
      have to fight blind someday; the average wizard was a fool.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The most basic <em class="calibre8">artificial light</em> charm was so easy that
      Tom didn't even need to say the incantation to brightly light a
      room, when he held his wand. So there should be no reason to hold
      his wand. After all, Tom could cast so many basic charms (and even
      more complicated ones) without a wand or word. He had no idea why
      this one was giving him so much trouble, but he was perversely glad
      of the challenge. Eventually he'd figure it out, and in learning he
      may glean some other valuable insight into magic. Still, such a
      simple spell should just <em class="calibre8">come naturally</em> to him at this
      point! It never failed to annoy him, slightly, when he actually had
      to work to perform magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He focused on <em class="calibre8">intention</em>: create a light, contained to
      this room. He drew up the little bit of his own raw magic that
      would be needed to cast the spell and let the incantation pass
      through the back of his mind and echo there. Normally at this point
      he would wave his wand, and the room would seem to have its own
      sun, but without it he had to <em class="calibre8">think</em>. He mentally shaped
      his magic around his <em class="calibre8">intention</em>. Feeling his magic flowing
      through him, he guided it into a specific shape: an orb
      encompassing the <em class="calibre8">intention</em>, then carefully poured just a
      little extra force into it, to make up for the lack of wand. As he
      opened his eyes, he forced his body's magic to extend out into the
      room like a ghastly invisible third arm that held the spell in its
      fist. The room lit up with a dim green light for a moment or two.
      Tom could make out the desk across from him. The light faded almost
      as quickly as it came. The desk disappeared into darkness
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom's brief smile turned down. That had been the same as his
      previous attempts, green light and all. When he cast it with a
      wand, it was a brilliant white light. Maybe there was some
      fundamental difference in this charm's mechanics compared to most
      other basic charms? There had to be. Well, Tom would figure it out
      in time; this was a puzzle that must be completed at all costs.
      Figuring out that small secret behind a basic lighting charm could
      very well provide the insight to improve a powerful ritual someday.
      Tom never took any small insight for granted. An obscure fact about
      one spell here, and observation of another curse there, sometimes
      that was all it took for a clever wizard to make a connection and
      use that to revolutionize some other technique...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom closed his eyes to try the spell again, but a brief warning
      flashed in the back of his mind. It was somebody approaching his
      door, according to his rudimentary room ward. Sighing, Tom flicked
      his wrist and his wand flew into his hand as if it had always been
      there. He shifted position, balancing himself with his wand at the
      ready, drawing up power to cast any number of dangerous curses. He
      waited a few seconds, fancying that the door would be blasted from
      the hinges by some arcane magic for a change, before hearing the
      soft knock of knuckles on wood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except it wasn't that soft, was it? It seemed more firm and
      insistent. He flicked his wrist; his wand disappearing into the
      holster down his sleeve, then approached the door. Of course it
      wouldn't be an attack, not in the castle, not now. Yet Tom had
      vowed to never let bad habits take root, to be disciplined and
      vigilant at all times. <em class="calibre8">The most successful attack is one that
      comes when you aren't expecting it.</em> Tom opened the door with
      his left hand while the right hung low ready to be armed with his
      wand with another flick of the wrist. He already had a rather nasty
      curse in mind: a quick upward slash of his wand to tear through
      almost any ward and every bit of flesh which it would be
      protecting, spattering the castle's ancient walls with a
      mist...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he opened the door, he saw a rather large seventh year
      standing menacingly before him. At least, the young man's posture
      and body language obviously meant to project danger and evoke fear
      to the average person. Tom almost smiled - he hadn't even bothered
      to properly evaluate this student on his "danger scale". In fact,
      he couldn't even recall the boy's name now that he thought of it.
      The only thing that seemed weaker than this boy's knowledge of
      casting was the force behind those spells. <em class="calibre8">Still, all his
      obvious incompetence could have been a bluff leading up to this
      moment... an unlikely attack with overwhelming magic.</em> Tom
      refused to let himself be fooled; he pushed that nifty little
      cutting curse on the top of his mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a flash the youth's demeanour changed. Tom hadn't said a word
      or made a gesture in the few moments they had been facing each
      other, but it was obvious the other student felt the raw magic
      pulsating as they stood there. His magic did that sometimes when he
      was annoyed or angry, he normally rather liked that effect, despite
      knowing he eventually had to master it. Using your raw magic like
      that was supposed to be very advanced, so Tom tended to take it as
      a good sign when it just happened on its own. The person on the
      receiving end of this growing feeling of cold relentless magic
      filling the air never seemed to appreciate the delicacy of it as
      much as Tom did, alas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry to bother you so late, Riddle." The youth was looking
      rather tired suddenly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore has asked me to tell you to come to his
      office immediately. He stressed to me that this was important. He
      didn't seem to be in a good mood…" The boy finished his sentence as
      if he was speaking to his shoes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you." Tom waved his hand and dismissed the messenger who
      was apparently glad to go.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom left his room and walked through the common room towards the
      exit. A few students yet milled about, studying or talking about
      mundane things. Tom noticed MacNair sitting at a table, his head
      was down on the wooden table top, and his wand was a foot in front
      of his face. He stared at the wooden rod, apparently lost in
      thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom hated to be interrupted when he was thinking deeply; he had
      no compunctions whatsoever about interrupting somebody else,
      however. "You can't empower your wand with your own magic MacNair,
      trust me, I've tried." He said it sarcastically, but a clever
      person would take it as a joke rather than an insult, and MacNair
      was clever. Just how clever the buy was even Tom couldn't say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair lifted his head, sunken cheeks dominating his face,
      looked up at Tom as if to speak, but he hesitated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom tried to look friendly, for he had no ill feelings towards
      MacNair. Quite the contrary, Tom considered him to be one of the
      least useless students attending this school. Recently he had even
      considered asking the boy to join his Battle Magic "lessons". For
      the last year it had simply been Tom and Chang, fighting wand to
      wand and fist to fist on the edge of the Forbidden Forest near the
      mountains. Chang was a hard fighter, but Tom could always overwhelm
      him if he needed to. He needed more opponents, more students...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair was hesitating to speak; Tom's reputation always made
      people consider before they spoke to him, even his "friends", so he
      had to encourage the boy with the sunken cheeks to open up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's so interesting about your wand?" Tom asked as he sat
      down to observe the light brown stick for himself. Perhaps MacNair
      had some type of thought Tom might be interested in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair took a moment to figure out how to speak his
      thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I mean, think about it, Tom," he said, snatching the wand
      and holding it up in front of his own face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The magical core that generates a wand's power is generally
      made from creatures people consider good." MacNair spun his wand
      around his fingers, back and forth, so precise and quickly it
      impressed even Tom. "Unicorns, Phoenixes, Veela. The most dangerous
      creature that I know they use to make wands from is dragons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair paused, obviously lost in thought. Speaking almost more
      to himself then to Tom, the boy continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My wand has a dragon heartstring in it. I have to say I've
      certainly noticed that when I cast fire spells, or more destructive
      spells, they are much more potent than I would have expected given
      my own natural ability."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair was on a roll. "What if a person made a wand from say, a
      hair from a troll?" He paused to consider his own question. "Would
      their spell casting have more brute strength? Would they be able to
      adapt to transfiguration more easily?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom couldn't answer these questions; he was ashamed to admit to
      himself that he had never even considered these things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair continued, "What if you used, say a piece of a Dementors
      cloak as your wand core?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom shuddered involuntarily; he took a second to regain his
      composure before he spoke. "I expect the wand would have some
      interesting properties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That much was true, who knows what powers you could wield with
      the magic of a Dementor?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom continued, "However, I would never touch such a wand myself.
      I also expect that it would degrade and fall to bits within weeks
      of its creation, no matter how well it was crafted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom felt truly interested in this conversation. MacNair might be
      onto something with his talk of wands. Tom had never considered
      looking into wandlore, a terrible oversight in retrospect; there
      could be powerful secrets there. The problem was there were
      powerful secrets in every ignored aspect of magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair looked at Tom and frowned. "A Dementor was a poor
      example, I admit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Very poor, but the thought was interesting.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair went on after a moment. "I mean, I know David Monroe has
      much more magical power then I do, yet my fire spells burn twice as
      hot as his do." The boy was gaining confidence as he spoke. "Monroe
      uses a wand with a unicorn hair core, and I've noticed that his
      spellcasting is quicker and more graceful than you would expect,
      even given his talent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom glanced over to the corner of the common room where Monroe
      was sitting in a large chair with a blonde in his lap. He whispered
      something to her that made her laugh. Tom couldn't help frowning.
      David Monroe had far too much unjustified confidence in himself. If
      the boy's bravado started to peak again, Tom would be forced to
      humble Monroe once more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair's voice cut into Tom's thoughts. "Do you think that a
      wizard's magic is more focused and powerful in areas their wands
      are comfortable in?" He was looking to Tom as though he was asking
      a question to a professor in class.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom considered it for a moment; he had to give MacNair some
      credit, he might be onto something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your idea certainly seems to make sense, I must admit. However,
      I think that it will be much more complicated than it may seem on
      the surface. I suggest you start asking around, find out what type
      of wands everyone uses. From there try to analyze the types of
      magic they excel in - there may well be a connection."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom paused and tapped his cheek with his finger before he
      continued. "There are actually a good number of books which mention
      wandlore in the library. If I were you, I would read those as
      well." Tom planned to read those books himself at some point now
      that MacNair had made such an interesting observation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Surely I can find some secret to use to my
      advantage.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom held up his own wand. Phoenix feather. Those birds were
      supposed to be one of the most powerful creatures on earth. Tom had
      started mastering wandless magic before he even knew he was a
      wizard, but once he had a wand he certainly became much more
      powerful. The core of his wand may help explain his extraordinarily
      powerful spells, natural skill aside. <em class="calibre8">Phoenixes come back from
      death as well.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">MacNair hung on Tom's every word. "I kind have been doing that
      already. You know, finding out who uses what wand, but you're
      right. I need to get more examples before I can really say for
      sure. Some of those books would help too; I'll have to visit the
      library."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was glad he had stopped to chat with MacNair. Not only did
      he get a new mystery to think about, but Tom's opinion of the boy
      intelligence solidified once he heard of the boy's theory and saw
      his desire to look deeper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, it was time to go. "Dumbledore has summoned me for some
      sort of chastisement, I have to assume. I'm afraid we'll have to
      continue this later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other boy's face was frozen. "Ok Tom, good luck with that
      old meddler. I hope he goes easy on you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom doubted he needed luck, and he was slightly annoyed, why
      would the boy care one way or the other? <em class="calibre8">Try not to be so
      transparent, please...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Tom made his way down the hallway he allowed himself to
      wonder what this summoning could regard. It was too near the
      beginning of fifth year for any plot against his fellow students.
      All the plots from last year were either dead or too well
      established to be uncovered. Tom guessed he had done more than a
      few things Dumbledore would disapprove of over the summer, but none
      of those could possibly have been found out, even by the old
      meddler.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom entered the Transfiguration classroom and walked toward the
      thick door at the back of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He knocked, a pointless gesture with Dumbledore's wards alerting
      him to Tom's presence. Oddly enough, Dumbledore was normally at the
      door and opening it as you reached up to bang on the wood, but not
      even the knock brought him forth. <em class="calibre8">Obviously some type of game
      going on here.</em> Tom never had to wait to be scolded or praised,
      whichever the case may be. So clearly this was some new tactic of
      Dumbledore's. Whatever the old man hoped to accomplish by making
      Tom wait would fail this time; Tom would be patient and sit here
      all night. If Tom could actually think of a reason Dumbledore would
      be especially angry, he may try to start off timid. As far as he
      could see though there was no reason for that, so Tom would act
      boldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no reason for him to stand at attention like a student
      to be scolded, waiting on Dumbledore while his own legs got tired.
      He almost took a step toward a desk before he stopped and sneered.
      <em class="calibre8">I'm a wizard, not a Muggle, I'd best remember it.</em> With a
      wave of his wand, two of the desks slid across the floor and
      stopped in front of him. He touched the first desk with his wand
      and focused on a complex Transfiguration. Within moments, the desk
      was a tall throne almost touching the high ceiling, from which he
      could look down on the old wizard once he deigned to appear. He
      admired it for a moment, and then touched his wand to create stairs
      on the bottom of the throne. This was a new technique Tom had been
      working on; it took three whole minutes before the Transfiguration
      of the stairs held. Tom climbed the stairs proudly, glad that the
      combination of a transfiguration and an illusion enchantment
      succeeded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom next transfigured the other desk into a large very dramatic
      looking hourglass, which was much easier work. <em class="calibre8">If you want to
      play a game, I'll certainly play with you.</em> How long the wait
      ended up could help determine how angry the man was. Really, most
      of the time Tom got away with his "schemes" as Dumbledore called
      them, by playing the innocent and misunderstood student, or setting
      up somebody else to take the blame. If Dumbledore was already
      trying to send messages, this would have to be a different type of
      conversation than their usual cryptic yet apparently friendly
      ones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom also considered that this might be nothing bad at all.
      Dumbledore could be too strange to predict, it was even possible
      Tom was here to be praised for something, but he doubted it. Why
      make him wait in that case? No, this seemed like a "stern lecture".
      He would know when he saw the man, if it was some trivial matter
      the old meddler would likely be briefly impressed at the detail in
      Tom's Transfigurations, and then proceed to laugh off the subtle
      messages and instead focus on the new technique Tom had just used
      to weave the stairs into a flowing, yet steady stream of black
      iron. Tom specifically crafted it especially to grab the man's
      attention. Normally nothing pleased him, but hopefully it would
      change their first interaction from a negative to a positive right
      from the start as well. <em class="calibre8">Why not play on the man's
      interests.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Transfiguration was one of the old man's passions, and as it
      happened; Tom was also very interested in this subject himself. It
      was unbelievably useful, and Tom had made a point to excel with
      this particular magic. A love of learning was something Tom had in
      common with the old man. Many times Tom had come to this office, to
      ask about a certain fundamental principle of a certain magic, or
      run a new theory past him and learn from the ancient wizard.
      Dumbledore would actually sit with him and appear to consider Tom's
      ideas as though they came from an equal. Tom tried to use these
      personal lessons to build the man's trust and slowly learn his
      potent magics. Any secrets he could squeeze out of the wise old man
      would be beneficial, though he had learned nothing of any true
      potency from Dumbledore. Even his most subtle and humble attempts
      came to nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More importantly, Tom was trying to build trust so he could earn
      a place among the staff one day. It was working, though not nearly
      as well as Tom had thought it would. There was no denying that the
      man had some level of trust and respect for Tom, at least when it
      came to his competence in Transfiguration, but that wouldn't be
      enough. The old wizard had to be in awe at Tom's skill on some
      level, or he wouldn't have allowed him to learn of the existence of
      Dumbledore's "Top Secret High Magic Transfiguration Laboratory".
      Tom was actually allowed inside to learn from the man and try his
      own experiments on a few occasions. Other professors had told him
      that he was the first student to even know of that room's
      existence. However, Tom hadn't been asked to join the man in his
      private room in quite some time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Really, Tom Riddle did not like Albus Dumbledore. The man had a
      strange way of thinking that Tom couldn't agree with. He did
      however respect him as a powerful and competent wizard. Not to
      mention, Tom not being stupid, he also had a healthy level of fear
      of a man capable of wielding the types and level of magic
      Dumbledore could.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore taught Transfiguration classes and Tom had to admit
      that as far as professors went, Dumbledore was excellent. His
      Transfiguration classes were actually entertaining and even
      insightful on occasion. Unlike most of the other professors,
      Dumbledore wouldn't frown on him trying to disprove something from
      the book. Nor would the old man try to limit Tom to the standard
      curriculum. If he was quite capable of the day's lesson, he was
      free to try a more advanced procedure and go practice in the
      corner. Dumbledore would even come over to give him advice from
      time to time. Tom absolutely disliked the old man, but couldn't
      deny that he respected him. He felt that Dumbledore held Tom in a
      similar regard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore would never dare try to hinder somebody's potential
      and could only respect the ambition and aptitude he showed at his
      age. <em class="calibre8">But Dumbledore is always suspicious of him, always
      assuming the worst.</em> The man was usually right, to be fair; Tom
      did get into some shady business, but Dumbledore shouldn't be able
      to see though the humble student facade Tom put on. Because of
      this, Tom still wasn't fully sure of the dynamics of this
      relationship. The old man once spent so much time trying to
      "advise" Tom. Perhaps it was because he truly respected the
      potential and wanted to be his mentor. That would explain why he
      wanted to try to take Tom off of the "dark path" he had once said
      Tom was apparently on. He had tried, but Tom didn't much care what
      anyone considered "dark." There were too many "dark" spells which
      were utterly useful in regular situations, Tom knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another consideration was that the man may have a better insight
      into Tom's real thoughts and ideas than he had ever suspected. In
      that case, the "Friendly lessons and chats" would be Dumbledore's
      way of keeping an eye on Tom or even trying to keep him in check.
      Tom was unsure - probably a little of both of those options,
      probably a third Tom would never understand. Dumbledore was a man
      who was very hard to read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door to the back office opened finally and the old man was
      standing there. He had a disappointed frown on his face - he was
      clearly annoyed, and Tom was about to receive a stern talking-to
      for some reason. Dumbledore's slight anger pushed his natural magic
      to take shape and radiate off the man, giving the atmosphere a hot
      tingling feeling. Most children would be cowering at this building
      pressure in the room, but Tom knew it merely meant Dumbledore was a
      powerful wizard, no news there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had learned you had to do something truly terrible to make
      Dumbledore truly angry. He had never seen the legendary "Angry
      Albus Dumbledore" but he had heard of the intensity of it. Tom
      could believe it was a sight to behold. <em class="calibre8">If Dumbledore projects
      this much power when he's displeased, the magic must be absolutely
      tangible when the man gets furious.</em> Tom imagined Dumbledore
      could easily walk through most wards as if they were air in the
      right situation, if he could radiate that much raw magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a quick gesture from Dumbledore's wand, Tom's
      transfigurations were undone, and he felt himself floated gently
      down to the ground in order to prevent the five-foot fall. Tom
      hated that. <em class="calibre8">So condescending; does he think me a child
      incapable of catching myself with my own magic?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was a message too as far as he could tell. Normally,
      Dumbledore at least started off amiable and friendly in their talks
      even if he suspected Tom of some "mischief". Normally it would
      first, be a lame attempt at humor and light chitchat, while
      Dumbledore tried to feel him out. This time the Professor seemed
      more than merely annoyed with Tom, and he was going to get straight
      to the point, whatever that may be. <em class="calibre8">I really can't imagine what
      he thinks I've done, why is he acting so differently this
      time?</em> As Tom was being led into the inner office, he thought
      frantically about which plots could possibly be discovered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly Tom realized what this could be about. It had been at
      least a week since he had last made the house elves confess if they
      had betrayed him or not. That laziness might have cost him
      something here; Tom supposed he would find out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's personal office was a place of great power even
      within this ancient magic castle. The large oak door alone would
      intimidate to a lesser person. It radiated power; Tom could easily
      detect some four to six wards around the office on any given day,
      and feel the edges of dozens more, so it was safe to say there were
      many more he couldn't even begin to comprehend. Tom was quite sure
      he would be unable to break through that door if he had to, even
      using the most potent magic currently available to him would
      probably not even scratch the wood. The door slammed behind him as
      he walked into the office itself, the lock clicked loudly despite
      there being no actual lock or knob for that matter. Tom made it
      across the room and to his chair first. He tried to sit down but
      there was an invisible barrier around the chair and he couldn't
      touch it; his hand was stopped dead by an invisible wall as he made
      to grab the back of the chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was across the room in a few long strides and took a
      seat in his own chair. Only after Dumbledore was seated did Tom
      feel the ward on the chair dissipate. The man wasn't even trying to
      be subtle; Tom disliked this sudden change in attitude, it was
      unexpected and probably unnecessary. As Tom sat he noticed the old
      man had his wand sitting out on the desk. It was not pointing
      directly at Tom but in his general direction, inches from the
      powerful wizard's grasp. There could be another message there - but
      knowing Dumbledore it could be anything. "If you can snatch it and
      overtake me, I will not oppose you." Perhaps, but that really did
      not seem likely. <em class="calibre8">And of course there could be no message there
      at all; it could be that's just where the man keeps it while
      sitting, easy enough to summon to hand instantly.</em> After four
      full years as a Slytherin, Tom instantly tended to try and find the
      hidden meaning in every action a person made in his presence, but
      with Dumbledore he usually failed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked at him, his normally twinkling eyes now
      piercing blue ice. Tom knew full well what that meant, and he
      simply couldn't allow it. He had taken measures to learn how to
      protect his mind, in addition to how to get past other people's
      barriers and search their thoughts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore must have picked up on Tom's Occlumency training at
      some point however. Tom had thought he had been extraordinarily
      subtle about it, Dumbledore must be good. Tom hadn't wanted the man
      to know that he was on his way to becoming a perfect Occlumens. He
      had planned to use Dumbledore's own legilimency against him. Tom
      would have fed him an innocent but misunderstood Tom Riddle, a Tom
      Riddle whose actions are filled with good intentions regardless of
      the results. It was one of the ways he planned to gain the man's
      trust. But Tom must have overestimated his own ability and given
      the game away. Those blue eyes no longer tried to pierce Tom's
      mind. Dumbledore must now know Tom was hiding his true thoughts
      from him and decided to not bother trying any longer. If Dumbledore
      had really discovered Tom's barriers there was a certain trust that
      would always be broken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me, Mister Riddle," Dumbledore said with no hint of his
      normal cheer, "what exactly have you done to the house elves?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had decided to adapt his answers to Dumbledore's reactions
      rather than go in with a set story. He'd put an innocent and
      ignorant face on, then replied, "Why, nothing sir. Nothing really,
      I've had them tend to a few extra tasks but that is what they live
      for sir. I've become friends with the elf which tends to my room,
      and he almost insisted on helping me more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was not moved. "I know it goes further than that,
      Mister Riddle. You have somehow hoodwinked them all into your
      service." Dumbledore was growing sterner by the moment. "I'll have
      you know that I personally consider the elves to be esteemed
      Hogwarts staff as much as myself. I do not take kindly to students
      playing games with them for their own amusement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore paused for a moment. "Even the Headmaster himself was
      distressed to learn of the abuse the house elves were
      suffering."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was starting to lose steam. "The Headmaster may not
      feel as strongly about it as I do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked annoyed at that, but continued with a new
      found passion. "I will certainly see to it that he takes it as
      seriously as it should be taken though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was looking at Tom now with a hint of disgust on his
      face. "I do not understand your true purpose for rallying the elves
      under your control." Dumbledore looked at Tom with his head tilted
      sideways in confusion and paused before continuing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Riddle, the complexity of your plots is getting to the
      point that I can leave no loopholes for you. Perhaps this is all a
      mistake on my part, but it seems it could possibly be something
      much greater which requires my attention."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom took that as a compliment and a challenge, though he hid his
      smile behind his mask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There will be an announcement to the school soon." Dumbledore
      said it firmly and let it hang before going on. "As much as it
      pains me, I will be personally seeing to it that the entire house
      elf management system is redesigned."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was curious about this; he could surely find a way around a
      redesign if he wanted to. Dumbledore was looking far less
      enthusiastic than he had been before when he spoke again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"These changes will hurt people Tom. You say you have made
      friends with your elf, well others have as well and they will be
      hurt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked at Tom hard. Tom did his best to pretend that
      meant something.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Riddle, you may not have any affection for lesser
      beings, no matter what you claim, but other students do.
      Friendships will die because of whatever plot you were working on,
      that is a sad thing, Tom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked like he meant it, though Tom didn't see how
      that was sad in that context. It was certainly a shame his plot had
      been foiled so early, that was slightly sad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom spent many late nights in his private dorm, a privilege only
      granted to him because he stayed at Hogwarts all year and it just
      made sense for a top student living at school to have their own
      quarters. He stayed up late reading books or practicing spells when
      most of the castle slept. As a result of his study he had become
      "friendly" with the house elf that goes by the name "Truuey."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Truuey was assigned to Tom's personal chamber. He was to keep it
      fresh and clean, and see to any small needs Tom may have. Tom asked
      who had assigned him to his particular room and the elf told him
      nobody assigned anything. The elves just knew what needed to be
      done and came to mutual agreements on the assigning of tasks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From there Tom had reasoned with the elf that since he was a
      Hogwarts servant bound particularly to Tom's service it only made
      sense if the elf followed his explicit orders. It didn't take much
      convincing; the house elves weren't very intelligent creatures.
      Once Tom had sold that idea to the elf, he also reasoned with the
      creature that things would be more efficiently run if there was a
      "Head House Elf". An elf that delegated responsibilities and
      punishments to all the other elves, if it could be done in an
      intelligent and organized way it would only help the castle run
      better. Tom compared it to the way wizards do things although he
      disagreed wizards ran anything properly, and the elf seemed to like
      the idea after a little coaxing and manipulating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It only took a few days, and a few motivational speeches and
      tips for controlling underlings until Truuey was more or less the
      dictator that all the other house elves followed with absolute
      loyalty. House elves were surprisingly agreeable even given their
      reputation. It only took a week and a half for them to accept and
      adapt to a global change in an 800 year old system. That was
      impressive even by Tom's ridiculously high standards. He had known
      the whole setup was first configured by none other than Helga
      Hufflepuff and it had probably never changed since implemented. He
      had foolishly assumed she couldn't be as dim as the stories made
      her seem but all his experience in the castle had made it obvious
      that the founders should have reviewed her ideas before they
      engraved them into the castles system. Surely Dumbledore would
      change things in time when he came into power, but for now it was
      almost too easy for Tom to game the systems.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had taken time to build his relationship with the elf which
      served him, and once Truuey was absolutely loyal to Tom he
      basically had total control of the entire Hogwarts house elf
      faction. Their strange magical constrictions made it easy for Tom
      to program in a near unbeatable system of silence. It could still
      be beaten, but only by the headmaster. The elves bound to Hogwarts
      had to answer to the Headmaster above all, regardless of other vows
      or constrictions. Tom had found that you could trick them into
      sorts of vows of silence however. Only if asked specific questions
      by the Headmaster could the elf answer those questions, and even
      then they had to use very specific answers providing no extra
      detail. House elf magic was rather odd and specific, useful as
      well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So far Tom had only been giving commands that would cause
      general confusion and disorder on a small scale, to further
      particular plots. Sometimes he would just generally use the elves'
      covert skills to harass the people he disliked. Last week Tom had
      the elves remove the bedding from three different people's beds and
      replace it with the itchy type no one could be comfortable in.
      Building a team of minions inside the castle took time, he had to
      start small and go unnoticed. <em class="calibre8">Apparently I've failed at going
      unnoticed.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore broke him out of thought, "Tom, I demand you stop any
      and all interaction with the house elves from here on out. This is
      not negotiable. If you have a certain need my door is always open
      to you, and I can help you with nearly anything. You are, under no
      circumstances, to issue orders of any type to any of the elves. You
      shall not direct other students to manipulate the elves either, nor
      shall you twist my words in any way to find a hole you can slip
      through. Have I made myself clear on this matter?" Dumbledore
      stared at him for a long moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes sir." Tom forced out, very annoyed about this. There was a
      great deal of power to be had in the school if you could wield the
      house elves cleverly. Surely he could find a way around whatever
      restrictions Dumbledore forced Headmaster Dippet to put into
      effect... but there were more important things to focus on. The
      elves were an acceptable loss by Tom's standards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand Professor, it was probably wrong of me to ask them
      to take on even more work on top of everything else they have to
      do." Tom paused to look down at the desk as though he was ashamed,
      as he had seen others do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He then looked up and continued with the shame gone from his
      face and an indignant stare took its place. Tom made sure to put
      force into his words when he spoke. "I simply had them doing things
      like fetching materials for experiments or sending messages to
      people in my study groups. Perhaps have them bringing me food at
      odd hours while I study. That type of thing. That is what they are
      in the school for Professor, is it not? They haven't complained to
      me at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's face was impossible to read as he spoke. "That is
      more or less their job Tom; however they are not any student's
      slave. They would not complain if you asked them to break stones
      using muggle hammers all day either, it's their nature."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom tried to look taken aback at the word, "Slave sir? Tuuey was
      my friend." Tom looked away from Dumbledore, toward one of the odd
      objects on the shelf as he let the comment sink in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore looked halfway satisfied with that answer; Tom had
      put enough "emotion" behind the word friend to cause a brief flash
      of doubt cross through the old wizard's eyes. However Tom wasn't
      convinced this was the end of matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You may go then Tom, it is getting late." The powerful door
      behind him clicked again and swung open. Apparently it was the end
      of it, at least the end of the conversation. Dumbledore would work
      tirelessly against this plot from every angle after this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However if that was all Dumbledore had to say on the matter,
      then Tom was fairly sure his complex set of commands and vows had
      prevented the old man from learning anything other than his
      involvement in using extra house elves to help him. Tom was also
      sure Headmaster Dippet wouldn't have pressed the issue too hard
      when questioning them for Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom got up and started to walk out and as he did he heard
      Professor Dumbledore speak from behind him in a softer voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did like the extra detail you put into the stairs on your
      throne by the way. It looked very complicated, and extremely
      comfortable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked back and the man had regained just a little of his
      regular cheeriness. Tom simply nodded at him and walked out as a
      scolded student should.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he headed back to his dorm he reflected on the loss. An army
      of unseen minions running around the school at night doing his
      bidding was certainly a huge loss. He could have slowly over the
      years used the elves as one of many factors in completely taking
      over the school. As far as he understood once the elves developed a
      deep enough pattern of following his specific orders as a "master"
      they would be bond to him nearly as much as the Headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">There would be pretty much nothing they wouldn't have done
      in my service if I could trick them into thinking they were
      accomplishing something else, once the situation got to that point.
      What did I fail to consider? I missed something if it went wrong so
      quickly.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom wasn't used to a thought-out plan coming undone so quickly
      and spectacularly. He had taken care to use specific words and
      phrases while talking to Tuuey, and the elf would have repeated him
      exactly to the underlings which were similarly bound. It would have
      taken a very specific line of questioning from the lazy headmaster
      himself for them to reveal they were taking orders from Tom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom thought about Dumbledore's involvement. He knew that
      Dumbledore not only spoke with the Merfolk and Centaurs, but took
      pleasure in it. The old man had to translate for the Headmaster if
      there were ever problems in the lake or forest. Tom had naturally
      assumed Dumbledore would speak with the cleaning and cooking
      "staff" as well but there was no reason the old meddler should have
      started pressing the Headmaster to ask the right questions.
      Questions like, "Did Tom Riddle take you into his service, Tuuey?"
      Or perhaps, "Did Tom Riddle ask you to take over the kitchen,
      Tuuey?" A very specific line of questioning would be the only way
      to confirm anything Tom had done with them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thinking it over, in retrospect the reformation was rather fast.
      Tom should have played it out for a year or two before taking total
      control. He should have used few extra elves now, a few more to his
      service a few months later and so on. That would have probably gone
      unseen. Tom had been overambitious and started wielding his elves
      far too hard too soon. It must have been obvious enough to take
      note of a plot if somebody was paying attention. Tom hadn't even
      thought that anybody would glance in that direction; since they
      were just elves doing what appeared to be work. Dumbledore's
      bizarre empathy towards the creatures might have been his undoing
      here; he hadn't considered that at all. <em class="calibre8">Sure Dumbledore might
      speak with a few from time to time, but that couldn't reveal any
      plot.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house elves were acting generally the same as they usually
      do. They were always cheery and ready for work. Perhaps some were a
      little tired and overworked, but Tom would never take one out of
      regular rotation and disrupt regular tasks, which could be noticed
      by somebody. Tom would use the ones who were currently allotted
      their required resting time when he needed them, so as to not
      attract attention. Tom would never have considered somebody would
      actually take notice of the lowly creatures. <em class="calibre8">Who would have
      noticed the subtle decrease in their well-being? Ridiculous,
      they're elves.</em> They had their uses but they didn't warrant
      that type of compassion. Tom had to wonder how exactly the mind of
      Albus Dumbledore worked if he could relate to an <em class="calibre8">elf</em>.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
