<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest - Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest Chapter 6, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Tom Riddle and
      Misunderstandings</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Chapter Six – Tom Riddle and
      Misunderstandings</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle sat in the Headmaster's office alone. The headmaster
      and Dumbledore had brought him in and left him to stew while they -
      tried to investigate - Tom assumed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was casually drawing patterns of smoke in the air with his
      fingers as he waited for Dippet and Dumbledore to return with
      whatever ideas they had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had been pleased that he had some time alone before the
      interrogation; he needed time to regain his composure after his
      transformation, and also to puzzle out just what Black had gotten
      him into - and how he could get out of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This is getting ridiculous. Surely they don't think they'll
      find anything after an hour? Waste of everybody's time, especially
      mine...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom leaned back, drew a jagged seven-pointed star in the air and
      admired it for a few moments. It began to change color, from a grey
      mist into a fiery rune, a flaming crimson light. Tom watched it
      grow in intensity for a few moments, then, dismissing it with a
      wave of his hand, he leaned back in the chair to think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, what do you think, Albus?" Headmaster Dippet asked as the
      man returned from the dorm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore frowned. "I didn't see anything overly
      suspicious, his wand hasn't done anything of note recently, and his
      room does not seem to have any lingering magic that is of major
      concern." He didn't want to mention the intensity of lingering
      Transfiguration, since Dippet was hardly the expert, but it had
      seemed almost unfamiliar at first.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus went on. "I believe on this matter it may come down to a
      misunderstanding. Even I find these particular claims a little too
      far-fetched. However, we will still need to speak with Mr. Riddle
      about it, and while we have the chance, we should talk to him
      regarding the other matter. The two may be related in some way I
      cannot see yet." At any rate, he was deeply curious to hear Tom's
      excuses and his version of events.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Headmaster Dippet frowned. "Oh Albus! Do you really think Tom is
      involved with this other nonsense? Still? It hardly seems like a
      matter worth investigating In my own opinion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus did not, but if Tom Riddle was in fact involved, it was a
      cause for deep concern. "It's worth looking into in any case while
      we have him here," he replied shortly. After all, how many innocent
      misunderstandings with one boy could there be? Eventually you start
      had to connecting the dots, even if the patterns were abstract and
      made little sense.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore had taken it upon himself to try to tame the
      wildness in the boy over the years. There was much potential in
      him, yes. However, it had seemed like a lost cause from the start,
      and perhaps Albus hadn't tried as hard as he could have. But when
      you took a boy who had such control over his magic before even
      taking a wand, and left him so long among Muggles, how could his
      stubbornness and independence be a surprise?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus, what's wrong?" Headmaster Dippet crinkled his eyes,
      tipped his head to the right, and stepped closer to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore shook his head to disregard the question, and
      put on a passive expression. "Let us go to speak with Mr. Riddle,
      and get to the bottom of this, shall we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, finally, Tom heard footsteps. He had been waiting in
      silence so long that he started, fearing for an instant that Aurors
      were coming to arrest him, before his natural calm reasserted
      itself. <em class="calibre8">The Headmaster, coming to apologize. And -ha! -
      Dumbledore.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been long enough that Tom's mind had started to wander
      and look at his situation from every angle. He had been careful,
      but one could always be more careful. Underestimating Albus
      Dumbledore would be a mistake he shouldn't make again - he hardly
      counted the House Elves - but it would be just like the old man to
      put together a pattern to deduce Tom's extra-curricular activities.
      And if so... then this was all a ruse to get him alone and
      unarmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had absolutely no intentions of ever being captured
      willingly. Even if he didn't seriously think he was on the verge of
      being arrested at this point, it was something to consider.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Your plan has to have at least 3 backups or it was
      like to fail".</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat in his chair with his fingers interlocked behind his
      head; he was facing the desk and rear wall, with his back to the
      door. He was admiring the brightness of the blue sky outside the
      window a few feet behind the desk. If three Aurors were coming to
      get him, there was no point in facing the door without a wand. As
      far as Tom could see, his best bet was to play dumb and timid until
      the last possible moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Unless Dumbledore is present… He may be invisible, so assume
      he is present to oversee the arrest… Dumbledore would see through a
      false surrender. Then I suppose I'd have to at least argue and make
      threats…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">You couldn't feel magic outside the Headmaster's office with the
      door closed - at any rate, Tom couldn't. And a silencing spell
      would quiet all traces of noise. All he could do was wait; once the
      door opened, he would be able to feel the presence of an Auror trio
      without having to look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was trying to focus his magic and build it up as much as he
      could, in case he needed to spring to action.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Merlin!"</em> Tom whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not only had his magic returned to him at an impressive rate,
      but the well of his power was much deeper than before he had
      completed the transformation. He had expected some sort of boost,
      but the increase was shocking even by his standards. He found that
      he had to suppress his magic now, as to not cause immediate alarm
      if the authorities came in. Whether Aurors or simply the
      Headmaster, he would have to explain even more if they felt him
      holding so much magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was dawning on Tom that "Unforgiveable Curses" were in fact
      punishable by a life sentence in Azkaban. And despite his youth,
      arson, robbery and extortion would probably be more than a slap on
      the wrist. Not to mention the other things Tom had to do sometimes
      to earn money, or "pay" Tobo Mott.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I have been careful though… They might suspect things, but
      they can't PROVE anything. They can't prove anything, unless
      Dumbledore put some arcane magical trace on me. Some radical magic
      which I know nothing of and Tobo cannot sense… And that is highly
      unlikely.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom shook his head at that notion, and at how ridiculous the law
      was. It was probable that they didn't even require any real proof
      against him, only circumstantial evidence of a "true crime", of
      which he had committed plenty. Then they would give him a "trial,"
      which would be little more than a formality, before he was shipped
      off to the… The Dementors...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No, no! The Headmaster is just searching, and since there is
      nothing to find, they are taking a while. That's all.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He would be prepared for anything however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If it is a capture mission, they would likely only use the
      standard trio for an unarmed 5</em><em class="calibre8">th</em><em class="calibre8">year student… The
      Aurors would come in single file, immediately to spread out and
      surround me in a triangle the moment they walked in, shields and
      wands raised.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smiled and leaned back even further in his chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If they surrounded him where he sat in front of the desk, then
      one of them would have to go around the desk to form the capture
      triangle for the arrest. That Auror would then come back around,
      breaking formation once Tom was on his feet and walking towards the
      door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">They won't expect anything at all from a wandless fifth year
      student.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smiled; he was beginning to almost hope they were coming to
      arrest him, it could prove interesting. He could see it now: he
      would stand up, raise his hands in surrender, then turn to the door
      as if to leave peacefully, frightened and helpless, in total
      submission. But the moment his back would turn to the window, the
      triangle broken, he would simply stumble back a step and bring his
      hands down. A massive blast cast to reflect off of the Auror's
      shields could propel him backwards through the window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom stared at the window and felt the edges of the wards. One
      enormous burst of his entire magical load as he was flying towards
      the window should be able to pierce the wards - Dippet's office was
      nowhere nearly as heavily warded as Dumbledore's, so it wouldn't
      require anything else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom would have walked over to the window to calculate the drop,
      but he couldn't be sure they weren't magically watching him right
      this moment. So he simply estimated how high he was in the castle
      at the moment. About two hundred feet, but he could time another
      blast/shield output to offset the impact. And once he was on the
      ground, the Whomping Willow was but a short sprint away. Especially
      with an adrenaline burst.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Running the distance before an auror got a shot off out the
      window and hit him would be the most difficult part as far as Tom
      could tell. If they had any type of real training they were
      probably at least as good a shot as he was, and the window was
      large.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't think anything he had done was enough to justify
      burning through the wall with Fiendfyre and coming after him, but
      that would be one thing he couldn't fight against. On the other
      hand, Aurors probably wouldn't do that at Hogwarts but for a very
      last resort, which would mean he was absolutely done for. Highly
      unlikely, at any rate, so all he'd have to do was run fast, and he
      was a very fast runner. Outrun the shots, press the hidden knot, go
      into the secret passage, grab his hidden emergency luggage, and he
      could then be easily out of the country by midnight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The biggest unknown would be the ministry's reaction time, but
      it really didn't matter too much. After all, once he had past the
      Hogwarts' wards, he could apparate anywhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom could make it that far down the serpentine passageway in 25
      seconds flat under the effects of the road runner potion in his
      bag, though it would cost him energy once it wore off. Polyjuiced
      and dressed as an old muggle woman should give him sufficient safe
      recovery time once he was away however.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It's a shame to leave my true wand behind, but –</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom's thoughts were cut off by the noise of footsteps. Two
      people walking. Two old people walking. Dippet and Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hm. It's almost a shame.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, I'd ask that you explain why I have been detained."
      Tom still faced the window.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry, Mister Riddle. You see, there had been a number of,
      err, strange rumors, and we had to be sure of some things." The
      Headmaster was coming around to sit at his desk now while
      Dumbledore took a seat on the side, observing Tom intently the
      entire time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I have my wand back, please, sir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom had asked Dippet, but it was Dumbledore who handed it over
      almost grudgingly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh, so very reluctant to arm me again!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom gave it a wave to see if it had been tampered with, but it
      felt utterly perfect on first glance. <em class="calibre8">I'll have to do some more
      vigorous testing on it later.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked up at Dippet, and then to Dumbledore. "What was the
      nature of these 'rumors', sirs?" Tom asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dippet replied, "Well Mister Riddle, Terence Keen had said
      Bellatrix Black admitted the two of you were performing some sort
      of dark ritual."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Apparently saying I was in the library was too complicated
      for her.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dippet continued, "Also, another student reported that he saw
      you take a cage into your room shortly before, apparently
      containing a number of squirrels."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me sir, which student would that be?" Tom demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was the one to answer him, "That does not matter,
      Mister Riddle. It is clear to me that no ritual was performed, and
      I myself see no benefit of using squirrels to any end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And we see Dumbledore's lack of creativity has saved
      me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was leaning forward now and staring at Tom with his
      blue eyes now stormy. "However Mister Riddle, I am curious about
      the Transfigurations you were performing in your room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smiled at Dumbledore. "Why, sir, I was just preparing for my
      OWLs, nothing too fancy, but I was certainly practicing hard." Tom
      sighed deeply. "That is why I asked Miss Black to send anyone
      looking for me on a goose chase to the library." He then forcefully
      said, "I didn't want to be interrupted while I studied." In a
      calmer voice, he went on, "Why Miss Black started making such
      inappropriate jokes I couldn't say, but, believe me, sir, there was
      nothing special happening this afternoon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was putting on his very best innocent-orphan-act, but
      Dumbledore's eyes remained fierce as he spoke. "Mister Riddle, I
      fully expected you to pass your Transfiguration OWL with flying
      colors as early as two years ago. I have never known you to be the
      type to take tests so seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was starting to become confused. <em class="calibre8">What did I
      say?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well Sir, I see now that these tests are serious, and I mean to
      do well." Tom shrugged his shoulders.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Upon inspecting your wand, the last spells you cast were
      seemingly for target practice, having nothing to do with
      Transfiguration," Dumbledore pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Obviously, I wasn't using my wand, old fool!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was taking a short break, leisure time," Tom replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why was your basic Transfiguration so important that Miss Black
      must prevent anybody from interrupting you?" Dumbledore was on him
      again, faster and more intent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Calm as ever, Tom replied, "It wasn't <em class="calibre8">important,</em> sir, I
      would wager that Miss Black probably read into what I was saying
      and projected her own silly ideas. Poor girl." He tried to put an
      air of a long-suffering suitor with an undesired suit. "Besides,
      sir, my Transfiguration ought not to be called 'basic', I think you
      would have to agree with me on that point, Professor." Tom smiled
      broadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The instant Tom was quiet, Dumbledore asked another question,
      with no hint of appreciation for the wit. "Why are you scaring
      children during the night, Mr. Riddle?" Dumbledore was leaning
      forward even more now, and Tom could feel magic pressure
      building.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was speechless. "I… What, excuse me sir could you elaborate
      on that last one?" Apparently something was going on that Tom
      Riddle was actually not responsible for. But his memory did seem to
      recall such an incident, despite it not seeming relevant enough to
      fully impress upon him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore paused for a moment and seemed to almost relax, but
      when he spoke his voice was still as sharp and focused as before.
      "Children have been roaming around at night, trying to sneak into
      the kitchens. The House Elves don't deliver late night snacks to
      them anymore as they once would on occasion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom bit his lip to stop from smiling as Dumbledore
      continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"During their roaming, they have been chased off several times
      by what they describe as terrifying noises." He stared at Tom. "So
      you see, I thought perhaps you were behind this, since you were
      involved with the Elves in the first place. Not to mention your
      history of 'mischievous' behaviour around the school." Dumbledore
      was looking at him with absolutely no expression now, which Tom
      found even more disconcerting than the open hostility.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see…" And for once, Tom was totally honest as he spoke to
      Dippet. "Well, I assure the both of you, I am no way concerned with
      scaring children in the night; I have far better things to do. I do
      recall hearing a snippet of conversation about these events at one
      point, but other than that, I am at as much of a loss as you as to
      what is happening. I don't know what else I can say on that matter,
      Sirs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It's almost relaxing to be so honest.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded and leaned back, "I believe you then,
      Tom."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom simply nodded. <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore is</em> <em class="calibre8">paying much more
      attention to the way I speak than he ever seemed to before. This
      whole business is odd.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom considered before asking, "Can you describe the nature of
      these incidents?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dippet started to speak, "Well Mister Riddle, these
      childr-"Dumbledore cut him off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I do not believe we need any help from you, Mister Riddle,
      thank you though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ignoring him, Tom went on. "I'm just saying, there are a certain
      group of 7th years you may want to look into, if you hadn't
      considered the obvious yet. This seems like it would be right up
      their street."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well, we will look into that." Dumbledore replied, while
      Dippet seemed rather confused and displeased.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom looked back at Dippet. "May I go then sir? If that's
      all…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, yes, Tom, I believe we have taken up enough of your time,
      back to your studies then." Dippet escorted Tom to the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom walked out and the door closed behind him. He considered the
      curious interrogation as he walked back to his dorm. It wasn't so
      strange that they investigated the Dark Ritual rumor, but as the
      squirrels were gone, there was no reason whatsoever to press it. He
      was, however, insulted that they thought he was behind the scaring
      of children. <em class="calibre8">My plots are more sophisticated than that!</em> He
      was starting to become curious, though - what was the purpose or
      point of scaring first or second years?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The lights in the hallway dimmed slightly as Tom walked past
      them back down to his dorm. Once there, he slammed the door behind
      him, hopefully disrupting the sleep of other children.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His whole plan was basically ruined tonight - tonight his
      actions would be especially watched. He pulled the now useless
      rings out of the pouch and tossed the lot on his desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat on the bed, steepling his fingers under his chin. Would
      they actually be watching him after such a lecture? Wouldn't
      Dumbledore think he'd been scared into behaving? He was quite
      irritated that the old man would be so obvious in his distrust in
      front of Dippet. <em class="calibre8">Unless that's why he was so open in showing me
      his distrust. To provoke me into doing something…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom leapt up, rubbing his forehead in frustration. <em class="calibre8">I
      certainly have to be more cautious about the man, but there is no
      reason to get paranoid yet.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't paranoia that was causing him to pace, it was anger
      and he couldn't think properly while he was angry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Bellatrix Black! How many times would that girl drag him through
      a lake of Fiendfyre? She simply couldn't think properly once given
      a command. <em class="calibre8">Perhaps I should bind her with a Vow so she never
      disobeys a direct command again. And then from there on, be very,
      very specific when telling her what to do...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course that was ridiculous. An Unbreakable Vow wouldn't even
      keep Bellatrix Black under control. The smartest thing to do at
      this point would be to disregard her completely and never involve
      her in anything again. Even leaving school wouldn't work; she'd
      most likely follow him to the ends of the Earth. <em class="calibre8">Fool girl! I
      should just have her killed!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't the first time Tom had considered killing Bellatrix
      Black, but he knew there was a far more appropriate target to take
      his rage out on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The goal is not to simply kill the Dark Wizard. The main
      goal is to find the evidence for Tobo to protect his
      business.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom frowned. <em class="calibre8">But a good fight might help to calm my
      rage.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom smiled as he glanced at the rings on the desk. He had
      planned to have Tobo enchant them for him. While wearing them on
      his wand hand he would have had all the extra power and speed he
      could possibly need. Added to his own natural skills, the fight
      would be one-sided, and there was no fun in that. <em class="calibre8">No rings, no
      more help from Tobo. This will end tonight, and I will move on to
      other affairs.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">After dressing for the weather, Tom left his room, then the
      Slytherin dorm, making sure to close the doors quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once Tom was out the front door of the school, he pooled his
      magics to cast the Disillusionment spell, but before he even said
      the words, a small noise sounded, like the cracking of an egg, and
      he was invisible. He was slightly surprised, as he'd never been
      able to cast that wordlessly before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In fact, before being brought to the Headmaster's, he had been
      so worn out, but now, Tom was feeling a great deal more powerful
      than he was that morning, the previous day even. And he knew
      why.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Powerful wizardry breeds powerful Wizards.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was also aware he was undergoing what was known as "Magical
      Puberty". A wizard's full potential developed during their teenage
      years, and their power could take leaps and bounds if they
      practiced properly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Animagus transformation certainly counts as powerful
      wizardry, but I hadn't expected this large of a boost, nor did I
      think it would be immediate… I didn't even notice it
      happening.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was briefly tempted to try some more serious magic and see
      how strong he really was, but there was plenty of time for that
      later. Right now, he had a long way to go... and much that could go
      wrong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He briefly stopped in the tunnel to make sure this escape bag
      was in fact still securely hidden, and it was. He considered using
      the Roadrunner potion to save extra time, but he would be tired
      when it wore off, and it was better to save it for when it was
      truly needed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As soon as he was past the wards, he apparated to a spot in the
      forest that Tobo had brought him to. Unfortunately, the home of
      this Wizard would be much harder to find.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom touched his wand to his throat and let an incantation pass
      through his mind, <em class="calibre8">"Sonorous".</em> He felt the spell vibrate
      down his throat and into his vocal cords, the magic warming his
      body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Brotherss come to me, sspeak with me."</em> The
      hisses echoed deep into the forest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He tucked his wand away securely, double-checked that his other
      tools were secure, and then Tom transformed into a large colorful
      snake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He swung his head from side to side, tongue flickering out and
      tasting the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">There iss prey here… Large variety of
      prey…"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He started slithering off to the east, towards the delicious
      smell of a very large rodent of some sort, a magical one. Consuming
      it would make him strong.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Focuss…"</em> He tried to remember his human
      motives.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Brotherss are coming, sspeak with them, sstalk
      with them."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The many types of delicious edibles around the forest were a
      distraction, but there was larger prey to hunt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He slithered around in circles rapidly, trying to coordinate
      himself; he hadn't had the room to sprawl out the only other time
      he tried this. Having the body of a snake and most of the mind of a
      person was proving to be exceedingly difficult.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He focused his mind and the scrap of magic left in him, and
      closed his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Things started to become clearer, more coordinated between mind,
      body and spirit. The urge to hunt rodents diminished and now he had
      the urge to hunt larger prey, prey that could truly fight back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Snakes started to arrive by the dozens and circle around him. He
      looked around in approval and they continued to show up at his
      side. He waited, until the slithering slowed, and the snakes
      stopped showing up. There were well over two hundred, closer to
      three hundred different colored serpents slithering into position,
      ready to listen to their new master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reared up and began to speak. <em class="calibre8">"Brotherss! I sseek one who
      hidess in your foresst, he iss outssider, and I mean to hunt
      him."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snakes hissed among each other and the general consensus was
      that this man certainly was an outsider; his magic was an
      inconvenience to the snakes and other creatures - not to mention,
      he was cruel. They confirmed that he was in fact living in the
      forest. Where he was, they could not say for sure at the moment;
      there were rumors and sightings a few days old but nothing concrete
      yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Sseek for me, sstalk for me and I will reward you
      brotherss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">So it was done, the snakes would move quickly through the
      forest, spreading the word and looking for this dark cabin,
      intruding on them and distressing all the forest animals.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was now sitting in the grass, rather dazed and confused at
      the moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I don't think I needed to sspeak wi- sspe- speak with them
      as a serpent to get their cooperation, but it's probably better to
      get used to being a snake.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom shook his head to try to get the smell of rats out of his
      mind; he was aware of how hungry he was now, but he shook it off.
      <em class="calibre8">This will only become easier.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom sat for a few more moments and then rose. It would take time
      for the serpents to spread the word and locate the wizard's home,
      and they had assured him they could do it "before pre ssun". Tom
      had time, if he needed the entire next day he had it. He could
      explain away his absence by saying he was wandering around the
      school, or indeed, in bed and overworked. <em class="calibre8">I doubt I will need
      very long however, my friends seem to be quite capable.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was still sorely tempted to try out some magic now that he
      had achieved another boost up the power ladder, but it would do no
      good to draw attention to himself. <em class="calibre8">I have to be very careful
      not to let my human presence trigger his wards, lest his house
      relocate one hundred miles east suddenly, or perhaps alert him and
      have him ambush me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, Tom sat back on a large stone and watched the stars. He
      had always appreciated the beauty of the stars.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a few hours later when a single snake approached Tom, and
      then started to slither in the opposite direction again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Brother, it iss me,"</em> Tom hissed to the
      retreating serpent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake returned, confused for a moment. It smelled the air
      with its tongue and eventually agreed that the human Tom was in
      fact his serpent master as well. The snake informed Tom that the
      wizard's home was currently about half an hour to the southwest
      according to the word that was passed along.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom thanked the snake, reassured it of his promise, and then
      promptly transformed into a snake himself once again to follow his
      brother to the rest of his flock, waiting at the doorstep of this
      so called dark wizard…</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
