<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest - Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest Chapter 7, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s7" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7: Tom Riddle and
      Experience</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><em class="calibre8">Chapter Seven – Tom Riddle and
      Experience</em></strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Darius Ahlee watched the dying embers of his fireplace, seated
      and sipping his cup of evening tea. A rat ran across the mantle,
      leaped to his bookshelf and sat there for a moment, swinging its
      head back and forth to sniff the air. He snorted. <em class="calibre8">A home that
      will protect me from the most dreaded foe! but no protection
      against minor vermin!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arcane magic tended to work like that: excellent for one
      purpose, horribly lacking in other ways. Yet woe to him who dared
      to tamper with a mage's spellcraft…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Yawning, he stretched upwards out of his chair. His wand was on
      the couch to his right, but by the time he reached it and turned to
      dispatch the pest, it had fled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Darius yawned again, and with some difficulty managed to shuffle
      to the sink to dispose of his cold tea. The cumbersome weight of
      his golden amulet almost made him stagger, and forced him to more
      alertness. Unfortunately, he was not quite alert enough to remember
      that his wand was not in his robes, and searched futilely till he
      looked back, where it still sat on the couch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed, put the dirty cup into the sink and walked straight
      to bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was at the head of his pack of brothers, mere feet away from
      the house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The house was ancient, created in a time when wizardry was much
      more powerful and raw. It appeared to be a small run down shack
      from the outside, but inside it was quite a bit larger and more
      lavish. No wizard could approach the shack openly without the
      owner's consent, nor could any long range magic affect it. The
      protection on it was very heavy indeed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Sso heavy that creator didn't bother with other
      ssecurity meassuress, it sseemss."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The rats he had placed under the Imperius curse while human were
      able to penetrate the shack, withdraw, and willingly march in the
      open mouths of his brothers with full enthusiasm. But he didn't
      dare turn back into a wizard, not yet, and he didn't dare enter the
      home himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He reared up on his tail, nearly six feet high, and turned to
      his brothers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Go, bring him to me,"</em> he hissed at his pack,
      <em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">Do not harm, only impede… Thiss iss my kill…"</em> At
      that, hundreds of snakes cautiously went forward towards the
      house.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Darius Ahlee slept in a dark and chilly bedroom, as was his
      preference. He lay atop his bed in his sleeping robes, with a
      brilliant golden chain securely around his throat. His house was a
      fortress, and his device made him invincible. Darius slept very
      well indeed - despite the number of enemies he had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If he didn't sleep so deeply, it was possible that he may have
      heard the noises: the sounds of soft rustling of the leaves on the
      roof, quiet scraping coming from several places at once. But then,
      it was blended into the sounds of the nighttime forest at first;
      yet it continued, growing louder. Darius turned over in bed once,
      but never woke to the sounds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One by one the snakes slithered in through the passages the rats
      had made, through tunnels in the walls, down the chimney, and out
      from the ashes of the extinguished fire. Dozens of multicolored
      serpents of all sizes began to fill the room slowly and quietly,
      surrounding the bed, and piling up on top of each other.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After only minutes, nearly five hundred snakes were in his room.
      There wasn't a surface that wasn't covered in several different
      colored S-shapes, except for his bed, and even that was on the
      verge of being swallowed by the walls of serpents. Yet they held
      formation, and waited.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The command came through the air on the wind, a low hiss.
      <em class="calibre8">"Flussh him out."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Dark Wizard Ahlee came out of his front door screaming,
      swinging his wand around to little effect, tripping and falling
      over the river of snakes that pushed him forwards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The largest snake, which had been outside waiting, suddenly
      transformed into a boy. As his human form took shape a wand, was
      already in his hand, thrust into the air.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The anti-Apparation ward went up a moment before the house
      itself vanished, but the man was still there, trying to get an even
      footing to cast something powerful to destroy the snakes, but
      failing. It took him a moment to notice that his home had
      disappeared without him; when it did, his eyes widened in
      shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't waste any time. Just as the man started to turn
      towards him, Tom flicked his left wrist, and the long wooden tube
      he had made, it flew up his robes and appeared in his hand. As he
      started to raise it, the Dark Wizard yelled something Tom couldn't
      make out; the ground beneath him shook so hard he lost his balance
      and fell. Tom leaned into the fall, tucking and rolling, behind a
      tree, then back onto his feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Interesting, I haven't the slightest clue how he did that…
      This may be trickier than anticipated.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom pressed his wand to the tree, and it exploded in a shower of
      large foot long splinters. He flung the mass at the man with a wave
      before running to a new position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The splinters were not under the class of attacks the man's
      amulet would dispel, so he had to defend. The man was already
      protected by some type of shield, clearly keeping the snakes away,
      but he managed to cast a pyro spell on the mass of sharp stakes
      flying towards him before he turned his wand on Tom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Too damn slow!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom flicked his wrist at several trees near the man, and each
      tree fell toward him. The man raised his wand, spun it around, and
      the trees flew up and back towards Tom, in a wall too wide to
      dodge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Reducto</em>!" Tom yelled and pointed at the ground in
      front of him. A large patch of soil was blasted loose from the
      earth. Tom dove into the hole as the trees flew over top of him. He
      saw a large loose pebble, touched his wand to it, then grabbed the
      Transfigured grenade, pulling the pin from it and throwing it at
      the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He seemed confused for a moment. Unfamiliar with the Muggle
      weapon, he hesitated a moment before deciding to repel it back to
      Tom. It exploded in the air, and the man was apparently startled
      for a moment by the unexpected blast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I need to get closer.</em> Tom waved his wand in front of
      him and yelled "<em class="calibre8">Fumus Parietem</em>!" A thick grey haze
      appeared between them, obscuring everything. Tom immediately zigged
      to the left and then zagged towards the man's position. He could
      feel a curse fly past him as he moved, could hear the man yelling
      more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom first silently used a Ventriloquo Charm on himself to throw
      his voice to the far right, and then yelled "<em class="calibre8">Protego
      Maximus</em>!" A heavy blue shield formed around him. <em class="calibre8">It won't
      stop his best attacks, but I won't need to.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man was casting curses in the direction he'd heard Tom's
      voice, over by dense patch of trees. Tom could make out the blurred
      jets of light through the haze, and he determined their origin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Silencio</em>, thought Tom, and his movements were silenced.
      He started to run up to the man from the other side, but he hadn't
      gone more than a few feet before the man summoned a wind to blow
      the conjured haze away. The Dark wizard rounded on Tom, beginning
      some terrible incantation, so Tom stopped running towards him and
      simply pointed his wand in his general direction and casually said,
      "<em class="calibre8">Avada Kedavera</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard went quiet as the brilliant streak of green light
      jetted toward him. He tried to dodge, but lost his balance, nearly
      leaping directly into the path of the miss fired curse and fell to
      the ground. Tom used this opportunity closer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the dark wizard tried to stand, he threw some kind of Dark
      magical rope at Tom, but Tom simply jumped over the cracking barbed
      wire and continued, sweeping up a stone from the ground with his
      wand and Transfiguring it into a dangerous looking yellow gas. Tom
      had banished the gas away from himself the moment it formed, and it
      flew towards the dark wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man jumped up, dropped his current shield to place some sort
      of Bubblehead charm not just over his head, but his entire
      body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom took his opportunity and pulled out his blow gun. He raised
      it to his lips and blew hard. The dart flew through the air faster
      than the man could register, and it passed through the shield that
      had saved him from the poison gas. It struck him just under the arm
      as he was raising his wand. The Muggle tranquilizer worked quickly
      - the man's words were already slurring as he started to yell
      something Tom wouldn't have understood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly there was nothing but blue light, a brilliant blue
      light taking up every bit of Tom's perceptions and senses. He
      couldn't move because he had no body, he couldn't think because he
      had no mind, he was nothing but blue light. And then nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom woke a short time later, his wand still clutched out of
      instinct. He immediately rolled a few times and stopped on his
      back, looking up to get a better view of his surroundings as he
      swept them with his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except, it wasn't a wand anymore; it was a mere stick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom didn't stop to consider the trickery. He dropped the
      unmagical stick and jumped to his feet; the last thing he
      remembered was blue light as the dark wizard fell unconscious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It only took him a moment to see that the other wizard was still
      lying on the ground, asleep.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked around: all of the snakes had fled the war zone, there
      were fallen trees, dying fires, craters and ground that was simply
      stripped clean, in a great circle around where Tom stood above his
      fallen foe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He flicked his wrist to summon his wand from, wherever it was;
      nothing happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">WHAT!?</em> Tom thought in a panic, he waved his hand to
      cast a particularly destructive spell at a tree but the words
      wouldn't come to him, he didn't even know how to…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Just stop panicking, concentrate.</em> Tom tried to reach
      out with… And feel it in the air. However he found he was simply
      staring at the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What is going on?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He walked over to the stick he dropped. Thirteen inches yew, in
      fact his wand, yet when he picked it up, it felt like nothing other
      than an ordinary stick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom was trying very hard to supress his panic and remain calm;
      he had to stay logical and figure out what was going on.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked himself over, moved his body around. Other than a few
      scrapes and some dirt he looked no worse for wear. He closed his
      eyes and thought of as many details of the battle as he could. It
      all came to him without hesitation, and he was starting to see the
      mistakes he had made already, so his mind was intact. Yet that
      other thing, the indescribable sense of power that coursed through
      him and the world around him, was gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He may have attacked me in some way that depleted all my
      magic; it will return soon enough...</em> Tom tried to convince
      himself, but he knew this was something terrible and was kicking
      himself for taking a moment too long drawing breath to blow the
      dart. At least the curse used had been interrupted, and therefore
      underpowered, else he may not.. have survived...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">OK, clearly I need to get more serious about this whole
      immortality thing.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But for now, he needed to try to finish the job. Which would be
      simple, since it appeared the golden amulet was lying on the ground
      beside the Dark wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Perfect… I hardly dare look at it without my power, never
      mind trying to claim it as my own…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom took the Dark wizard's wand and snapped it in half over his
      knee. The sun had not begun to come up yet, and he wasn't thirsty,
      so he could have only been unconscious for a couple of hours, and
      the man would be asleep for days yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom bent over to pull an eight-inch combat knife from a sheath
      on his boot, and then took another step towards the fallen
      wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom tapped his chin with the tip of the knife, thinking. Even
      without the wand, a powerful wizard would be difficult to restrain
      without magic. But if he killed the man, Tobo wouldn't get his
      information.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom sighed and kneeled down before the man, leaned forward with
      his knife and cut his robes away, using the scraps to tie his arms
      and legs. When he finished, there was a rather large piece of white
      cloth left over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He knew he couldn't spare too much blood; he would have to keep
      it short and simple.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">How does one find a person using five words or less?</em> He
      sighed in resignation after a moment, and decided he could come up
      with something better for his own private use later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For now... Tom took his knife and cut his thumb open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Of all the things I thought to bring, a quill and parchment
      never even crossed my mind…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em><em class="calibre8">SOSV5 Reply and follow owl,"</em> Tom wrote out in
      messy, nearly illegible letters with his own blood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The code was something they had agreed on, and Tobo had assured
      Tom that he would "rain down an unimaginable tornado of hell" on
      Tom if he ever used it for anything other than an absolute
      emergency. Tom was sure that this situation counted as an
      emergency.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom set the letter down to dry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Now, I just have to find an owl to deliver this… As
      basically a non-magical person…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom knew that even though he could hear owls hooting all around
      him that not one of them would come to a non-magical person, or
      deliver their letters, perhaps not even understand them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">As interesting as this new level of difficulty is, I think I
      prefer approaching my problems with all of my power…</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      /*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once again, Tom tugged on the long thread, and the dead mouse
      tied to the end seemed to jump under the tree.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The owl over head was clearly interested in it, but Tom knew the
      owl must think him stupid hiding here in the bush.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Perhaps it's not as smart as I thought.</em> Tom laughed to
      himself as the large white owl swooped down towards the mouse.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom leaped up from his crouching position, stretching out his
      arms as he jumped, throwing his "net" out at the owl. His cloak
      flew through the air quickly with the weight of the stones in it.
      The makeshift net surrounded the owl and brought it down.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom pounced on top of it. He wrestled with the cloak and tried
      to hold it down, but the owl had a surprising amount of fight in
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Listen, I understand this is terribly rude…" he said to the
      struggling mass of cloth. "These are extraordinary circumstances,
      however… I need your assistance, I need a letter delivered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The owl was still fighting, and Tom couldn't get a firm grasp to
      pin it down, nor did he want to be too violent with it. Something
      told him this was a useless effort; the owl probably didn't even
      understand the speech of a non-magical person.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I'll give you an entire bag of Hubbard's Not-so-Ordinary
      Owl Treats if you just…"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The owl stopped fighting at the mention of the ridiculously
      expensive snacks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom slapped his forehead. <em class="calibre8">I'm going to pay someone to breed
      a better species of owl someday, or rather, do it myself so it gets
      done properly...</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
