<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest - Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest Chapter 8, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Tom Riddle and Conflicts of Interest"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s8" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 7.1: Interlude</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">So here is the real deal.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The last few chapters have been an utter drain; they have turned
      a leisure activity into a chore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Simply because the top comment in an early chapter was something
      like "Tom needs to get some action."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">*Oh no, I'm losing them… I won't even scratch the surface for a
      dozen chapters yet, what am I to do…?* I wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, I came up with this "defeat a Dark Lord" plot pretty much on
      the spot. I've tried to wedge this into the established story I
      have planned (and written to a degree) and it's not going well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, within a couple of chapters I will be back on track,
      and I will pay less attention to the comments, and go at the pace I
      need to tell the story properly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This "Interlude" was a way for me to break out from the chore of
      the current plot and still play in my universe. I had established a
      great deal of Tom's back story before I even started, so I figured
      a series of flashbacks would be fun for me to write, and
      interesting and insightful for you to read.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is part one of three, each will be more or less the same, a
      series of flashbacks to Tom's past as a "muggle" with strange
      powers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I do have an entire storyline planned for this little mini
      story; once again the story has sprawled ridiculously. There are a
      few key events which I want to hit which will help explain why Tom
      is who he is "now".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is near 9000 words for part one of this; I'll post it in
      "mini chapters" over the next couple/few days. You can check back
      after lunch tomorrow and the next day and find updates, as I don't
      think I should make a thread every time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next "Interlude" will come at an undetermined time, either
      when I feel it is appropriate to provide context to the story, or
      when I simply get bored…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I will be taking a break from posting for a while now, but I
      will be back to writing the main story offline.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Writing and posting one chapter at a time is no good, I need to
      have 4 or 5 chapters written already when I post, as I did in the
      beginning. Not only for a quicker pace, but it certainly helps with
      continuity.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hope you enjoy meeting a (my parallel universe version of) young
      Tom Riddle…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(I've made it it's own new story, simply because that's what it
      has become.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">s/11595761/1/Tom-Riddle-Origins-of-a-Dark-Lord</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
