<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Nuclear Bomb - Harry Potter and the Nuclear Bomb, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Nuclear Bomb"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Author's note:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Read Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality (HPMOR) before
      this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was written as an answer to the author's challenge at the
      end of chapter 113 in HPMOR. Then I realised that it not just
      solved the immediate problem, but many others, and could be
      considered a complete ending for HPMOR.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This is not the best idea I had, but it is the most fun. Short,
      if not sweet.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was facing an enemy as smart as him, who had carefully
      prepared for exactly this eventuality. But maybe Lord Voldemort
      would not think that a Tom Riddle without a Horcrux would have
      prepared a self-destruct.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was time to lose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry could not see a reliable way to live. He looked at the
      death eaters with defeat in his eyes. They were largely near the
      altar where Voldemort had been when he called them. Harry dropped
      his eyes in sadness, down to his far off pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He lifted his eyes slightly, not all the way to where Voldemort
      was flying above the altar. He dropped his wand in defeat, and
      spoke sadly in Parselmouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can do partial transformation. I can imagine how I could use
      that to destroy the world. I could describe that to you if you
      wish."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That may be worth my time. Proceed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would take some time. I could transform part of the earth
      into U235. A subcritical mass, of course. Then I would transform
      another subcritical mass, not quite close enough to be critical. I
      could continue this for a long time building up a barely stable
      state. I assume you understand what happens when into close
      proximity come" Harry dropped his eyes down to his pouch, and spoke
      directly to it, still in Parseltongue, "two subcritical masses of
      U235."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When Harry had stocked his pouch, he had foreseen the need for
      self-destruction. He had transfigured two barely subcritical masses
      of U235, carefully surrounded with lead for the time he handled
      them. He had done this outside, way away from any ferrous objects,
      as he had also made a strong magnetic monopole on each. North on
      one, South on the other. Of course he had put the first into the
      pouch well before he started creating the second.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now the two lumps came out of the moleskin pouch, in close
      proximity. The monopoles were strongly attracted, and the lumps
      raced towards each other, squishing the lead shielding. A hundredth
      of a second later a chain reaction started and in less than a
      millisecond overcame the magnetic attraction, driving the masses
      apart before much of an explosion had been able to build.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As nuclear explosions went, it was tiny. But for the death
      eaters standing nearby, it was still very effective. The nearest
      dozen were shredded, and everyone else on the field was at the
      minimum knocked out. Hermione's body was also shredded, thoroughly
      waking her up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thirty seconds later there was silence, broken only by the sound
      of Hermione's body stitching itself together. She stood up and
      surveyed the scene. Her last memory was of dying in Harry's arms.
      Now she was surrounded by dead and dying death eaters. It didn't
      make sense, so Harry Potter must have been involved. Sure enough,
      he there he was lying unconscious naked apart from his glasses near
      what appeared to be a stunned Lord Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For twenty seconds she just looked, thinking carefully. Then she
      went looking for a wand.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
