<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>5. Headmaster Potter-Evans-Verres - Headmaster Potter-Evans-Verres Chapter 3: Deliberations, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="5. Headmaster Potter-Evans-Verres"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s3" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 3: Deliberations</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy was confused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He did not like being confused, and it was not often that he
      was. He prided himself on the number of precautions he had taken so
      that he would always understand what was happening in the
      world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, there were times he was surprised by one thing or
      another. It would be impossible to predict every time a morally
      upstanding citizen became corrupted. Still, there was a difference
      between being <em class="calibre8">surprised</em> and <em class="calibre8">confused</em>. Being
      <em class="calibre8">surprised</em> simply meant that Lucius had not managed to
      predict something happening. Being <em class="calibre8">confused</em> meant that he
      did not understand it even after it had happened. When one of his
      supporters voted against him in an important Wizengamot vote, he
      could look back and see the indications they were turning against
      him. He tried to establish a method of finding those telltale signs
      in advance, but the process was maddening. Nobody could be expected
      to perfectly analyze everyone they interact with, the only person
      who had even come close had died a number of years ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, there were only two people Lucius had met who could
      consistently make him confused, and he didn't have many kind words
      to say about either of them. Had they not spent the better part of
      ten years fighting each other, he was sure the world would have
      been turned to ash long ago.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When he looked at this morning's edition of <em class="calibre8">The Daily
      Prophet</em>, he felt a level of confusion he rarely felt even from
      Dumbledore. The headline read:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">BOY-WHO-LIVED:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">NEXT HOGWARTS HEADMASTER?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That boy was only eleven years old, and he had already done two
      things no other wizard could even hope to do. Not to mention the
      prophecy he had apparently spawned. He was an important piece on
      the field since the attack on Godric's Hollow, but now Lucius could
      be sure it wasn't a coincidence. Whatever power the boy had that
      could defeat the most powerful Dark Lord in history, it was still
      present, and it could be used for purposes other than combat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius thought back to what little he knew about the event at
      Godric's Hollow. He thought back to all the thousands of Galleons
      he spent, hiring investigators, magical experts, repeatedly going
      over every detail of that night. He had eventually concluded that
      it was some sort of set-up. The Dark Mark had not faded, so there
      was at least a remnant of the Dark Lord left in the world. It
      seemed unlikely that he would fake his own death, but it seemed
      more likely than a child defeating him. Lucius had been forced to
      assume that Dumbledore had baited the Dark Lord to attack Godric's
      Hollow, and then sprung a trap on him. It still didn't fit
      perfectly, but he had learned not to look too closely when it came
      to Dumbledore's plots. Lucius wasn't on the same level of magical
      expertise that Dumbledore and the Dark Lord were, but he wouldn't
      be surprised if Dumbledore could surpass the Dark Lord in a duel.
      Plus, it would explain why there was nothing but a burning husk
      left of both the Dark Lord and his wife.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius couldn't stop his hands from tightening on the paper as
      he thought of his wife. Beautiful, pure, Narcissia. She never
      joined the Death Eaters, she never even knew Lucius was a Death
      Eater. Lucius forced his hands to relax, not show any anger or
      weakness. He was alone, but it was good to keep up the habit. No,
      the boy had taken down the Dark Lord, somehow. Lucius could not
      even begin to imagine what the boy could do. He knew one thing,
      though. Gaining the boy's alliance was the top priority.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius put down the newspaper and picked up the letter he had
      gotten asking for an emergency meeting of the Hogwarts Board of
      Governors. They were to discuss the Sorting Hat's decision, as they
      always did when a new Headmaster was decided. The whole meeting was
      nothing more than a formality, everyone knew it. There was nobody
      on the Board of Governors that would be willing to support a child
      being chosen as Headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Still, the boy was important, someone Lucius needed on his side.
      If the letter Draco had sent him was accurate, it meant the boy had
      already met with Severus. He would have to talk with Severus later
      about why he didn't feel the need to tell anyone about it, but he
      surely had his reasons.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius sighed and put down the letter. He had spent the past
      twelve years looking for a way to move Dumbledore out of the
      Headmaster position before Draco was old enough to go to school,
      and now an opportunity had arisen. Even if it was unlikely, this
      was the Boy-Who-Lived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He opened the doors to exit his private study. His loyal
      bodyguards Crabbe and Goyle were positioned outside, alert as
      always. "Crabbe, Goyle, we're going to Hogwarts for an emergency
      meeting of the Board of Governors." Crabbe and Goyle nodded in
      response. Straightforward, no stupid questions. It wasn't easy to
      find bodyguards as effective as those two.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he strode out of his manor to get out of range of the
      anti-apparition charm, he thought through his strategy for the
      meeting. He never liked being the first to suggest any course of
      action, but the Malfoys didn't become the most powerful family in
      Magical Britain by following in the footsteps of others. Some of
      the Malfoys had followed others, but only ever for a time. They
      always came out on top.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So...what will I expect to see in this meeting, Headmaster?"
      Harry asked as he suppressed a yawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, a lot of talking, some discussing. Maybe even deliberating,
      if you're lucky, Headmaster." Dumbledore replied cheerfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, but...can you give me a five minute overview of what
      they're going to do, what they'll be sympathetic towards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, but that would ruin the surprise!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. He was too tired for this crazy
      Headmaster act, especially now that he knew it was an act.
      Yesterday was exhausting enough, and with his awkward sleep
      schedule, he was a bit more tired than he should have been at 10
      AM. He should probably have counted himself lucky that he managed
      to be awake at a reasonable time. Hopefully soon he would have a
      solution, or he would end up missing even more classes. He wasn't
      too worried about missing one day of classes, but he might have
      missed out on important context for the rest of the semester.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry and Dumbledore reached a rather official looking door in
      some remote corner of Hogwarts. <em class="calibre8">I'm going to figure out how
      this castle works, one day</em>, Harry thought to himself,
      <em class="calibre8">space warping magic is probably the easiest kind of magic to
      abuse. There's so much I could do without conservation of energy.
      Of course, that only works if Hogwarts is actually bigger on the
      inside, and we don't just shrink down or enter some sort of pocket
      dimension.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry walked through the doors and into a surprisingly large,
      circular room. The room had twelve chairs aligned in circle in the
      middle of the room, surrounding two smaller chairs in the middle.
      The twelve large chairs were occupied by a group of intimidating
      wizards and witches. Harry recognised Amelia Bones and Lucius
      Malfoy, but the rest of them were complete strangers. The whole
      room had a very intimidating feel, as if to drive home that these
      twelve people had complete control over your future.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," said an elderly witch, after Harry and Dumbledore sat on
      the smaller chairs, "I think we can all agree this is a pointless
      meeting. We won't be voting to allow a child the Headmaster
      position any time soon."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not so fast, Agusta." replied Lucius Malfoy, "we must give this
      issue the attention it deserves."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Lucius, have you really sunk so low as to be advocating for
      a <em class="calibre8">child</em>, just so you can cause problems for Dumbledore?"
      Sneered an elderly man sitting to Malfoy's left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't be so closed-minded, Charles. The boy is clearly
      extraordinary, I'm simply suggesting we think about this before we
      make any decisions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care if the boy is the next Merlin," said the elderly
      witch, "in order for someone to be qualified as a Headmaster, they
      need to have certain skills. They need to understand magic and how
      to best teach it to children. A first year simply cannot have that
      knowledge, especially if, as I'm led to believe, he has been living
      in the muggle world for most of his life."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hate to agree with Lucius." Amelia Bones said, "but I spoke
      with the boy at length yesterday when attempting to verify that the
      Hat had not been tampered with. He is an extraordinary first year,
      and we should at the very least hear him out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Everyone turned to Harry. "Well, I've been thinking a lot about
      how I can improve the school, since before I talked to the Sorting
      Hat." Harry began, "You're right that I don't have as much magical
      experience as the rest of you, but I'm very good at learning new
      information. My da-my adoptive father was a professor at an
      advanced muggle school, so he had a lot of advanced books and he
      encouraged me to read about anything I was curious about." There
      was a bit of nervous shuffling around the rest of the room. "I
      could learn the basics of what's being taught in all sevem years as
      the year goes on, although I probably wouldn't be on the level I
      should be, at least at first. I should be able to keep up with the
      general ideas and figure out what is safe and what is difficult and
      everything. Aside from the magic, though, I think there's a lot
      that I could bring to this school. Some of those muggle books I
      read had knowledge on developmental psychology that I don't think
      is prevalent in the wizarding world-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hah!" barked the old wizard, "You hear that, Lucius? The boy
      you supported wants to bring in muggle ideas. What do you-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're not 'muggle ideas'." Interrupted Harry, somewhat
      annoyed. "They're human techniques that muggles happened to have
      discovered before wizards. It's bound to happen, since there are so
      many more muggles than wizards in the world. Wizards may be able to
      use magic, but if there were any psychological differences then
      muggleborns would stand out and wouldn't be able to live in the
      muggle world until they were 11. But I'm getting off topic, the
      point is that it doesn't matter <em class="calibre8">where</em> it originated, so
      long as it works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What would you suggest changing, then?" asked Amelia Bones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I would have to spend more time to figure out every change
      I would make, but I did talk to the rest of the students and there
      are a few glaring problems with your faculty. Most obviously is the
      Potions Master and Head of Slytherin, Severus Snape. Snape is
      consistently abusive to all students not in Slytherin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Severus Snape is an invaluable member of the faculty, and a
      world-renowned Potions Master." Said a wizard to Lucius Malfoy's
      right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't care how great he is at dealing with potions, he's
      terrible at dealing with children. Good professors are experts on
      learning, able to accommodate their students as best as possible.
      If half of what I've been told is true, Snape wouldn't be fit to be
      a janitor in a place as prestigious as this." Harry was getting
      very annoyed with the conversation, but he was trying to keep his
      anger under control. He needed reasonable Harry, not angry
      will-take-any-route-to-get-what-he-wants Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He found Lucius was staring at him intently, and he turned away.
      Didn't the sorting hat say something about looking into people's
      eyes? It would be hard to avoid entirely, but he could try to be
      aware of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, refreshing as it is to see a candidate who isn't afraid
      to make controversial statements, my point stands."said the old
      witch, "I'm not replacing Dumbledore with this child until he can
      prove he's an expert on magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is not necessary for the boy to replace Dumbledore." said
      Lucius, "We can let him be an apprentice Headmaster for a semester.
      He would not have any true power over the school, yet he would have
      an opportunity to learn how it is run. Of course, fe would also
      have to go through his regularly scheduled classes, to ensure he is
      learning all the necessary information. It would be a lot of extra
      work for him, but I am sure he could get through it if he wanted
      to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lucius…" said the man on his right, "Are you sure this is the
      best course of action? The boy wants to remove Snape and bring in
      Muggle ideas."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It may not be a certainty, but I believe this boy will be worth
      the risk. He has an interesting new philosophy, and I want to see
      where it will go. If he is not given any real control, he cannot
      cause any harm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will earn the favor of the Noble and Most Ancient House of
      Malfoy if you support this action. Enough deliberating, let's put
      it to a vote. All in favor of making Harry Potter assistant
      Headmaster?" Lucius raised his hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked around the room, and saw that Amelia Bones had also
      raised her hand, and several others were raising their hands. It
      looked to be about evenly divided. Six hands raised, and six
      unraised. Just another issue the wizarding world had, it would be
      much better if the board of governors had an odd number of members
      to prevent ties like this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, a tie." Harry said, "What does that mean, does the
      Headmaster decide or something?" He turned to Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore clapped his hands together and smiled. "Well,
      Headmaster, I'll get your office set up as soon as possible."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
