<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility - Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility Chapter 1: Prologue, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Prologue</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">This is a single point of divergence story from the fanfic Harry
      Potter and the Methods of Rationality (www. hpmor .com, remove
      spaces). Specifically, the divergence starts mid-chapter 82. At the
      time of this writing HP:MoR is still in progress, and I only know
      of the events through the current chapter (now 85), so there may
      and probably will be more divergences, intentional or not, as time
      goes on. Certainly I'm not going to follow what's going on in
      HP:MoR slavishly, and background that has not yet been revealed
      I'll need to create my own material for. (As will become apparent
      by the end of this chapter, the present is going to be diverging
      wildly, enjoy the ride!)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I will, by necessity, need to borrow some text from chapter 82
      of MoR to establish the place in the story and provide for
      continuity. Unfortunately, all the ways in which I might typically
      designate this text would compromise the flow of the story in some
      instances. I trust the astute reader will have read chapter 82 MoR
      anyway and be able to distinguish my text from Less Wrong's.
      Consider this an explicit acknowledgement that I have borrowed some
      text, and that all appropriate text should be properly attributed
      to him. Most of the borrowed text occurs from the start to "The boy
      took a deep breath, and opened his mouth -".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If you have not read HP:MoR yet, I strongly suggest you do so.
      It is, however, a daunting task, given its immense size. At the
      very least, you should read its chapters 78-82 (which is actually a
      surprisingly good starting point for the middle of the story).</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I acknowledge the debt, but the law does not strictly oblige me
      to accept it in cancellation," said Lord Malfoy with a grim smile.
      "The girl is no part of House Potter; the debt I owe House Potter
      is no debt to her. As for the <em class="calibre8">dishonor</em> -" Lucius Malfoy
      paused. "As for the grave shame I feel at my ingratitude toward the
      Potters, who have done so much for me -" Lucius Malfoy bowed his
      head. "May my ancestors forgive me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, boy?" called the scarred man sitting at Lord Malfoy's
      right hand. "Go and destroy Azkaban, then!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd like to see that," said another voice. "Will you be selling
      tickets?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It went without saying that Harry didn't pick this particular
      moment to give up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The girl is no part of House Potter -</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had, in fact, seen the obvious way out of the dilemma almost
      instantly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It might have taken him longer if he hadn't recently overheard a
      number of conversations between older Ravenclaw girls, and read a
      certain number of Quibbler stories.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was, nonetheless, having trouble accepting it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This is ridiculous,</em> said a part of Harry which had just
      dubbed itself the Internal Consistency Checker. <em class="calibre8">Our actions
      here are completely incoherent. First you feel less emotional
      reluctance to risk your bloody LIFE and probably DIE for Hermione,
      than to part with a stupid heap of gold. And now you're balking
      just at getting married?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">SYSTEM ERROR.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You know what?</em> said Internal Consistency Checker.
      <em class="calibre8">You're stupid.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I didn't say no,</em> thought Harry. <em class="calibre8">I was just saying
      SYSTEM ERROR.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I vote for destroying Azkaban,</em> said Gryffindor. <em class="calibre8">It
      needs to be done anyway.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Really, really stupid,</em> said Internal Consistency
      Checker. <em class="calibre8">Oh, screw this, I'm assuming control of our
      body.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy took a deep breath, and opened his mouth -</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, and Master Potter," Lord Malfoy said, "it is well known to
      this assembly that there are ways in which the girl could become
      part of House Potter. However, following the tragic events of 1734,
      in which a certain Archibald Broomhandle attempted to compel poor
      Aelwen ferch Olwydd to marry him, by arranging circumstances not so
      disimilar to these – not that I mean to impugn the honor of House
      Potter in this matter, you could hardly be responsible at your
      age," Lucius smiled and continued, "the Wizengamot no longer
      recognizes any sort of contract as relevant to its proceedings if
      it was not in force before the start of those proceedings."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...and closed his mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"By all means, if you wish to bring her into your house after
      these deliberations have finished, feel free to continue."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So, Azkaban?</em> said Gryffindor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">They have dementors not in Azkaban,</em> Ravenclaw
      unhelpfully pointed out. <em class="calibre8">Not many, but enough to damage a 12
      year old girl.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The only way to protect Hermione is to demonstrate our
      dominance over the Wizengamot,</em> said Slytherin. <em class="calibre8">We need
      leverage.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What happens if we escalate?</em> asked Ravenclaw. <em class="calibre8">What
      happens if we choose to lose?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Losing means Hermione dies.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Unacceptable!</em> said Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We know dragons can be slain,</em> said Gryffindor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While Harry's inner monologue was ongoing, his feet carried him
      past a stunned Professor McGonagall, and down the dark stone stairs
      to where Hermione and the dementor were. His attention was fixed on
      her, her eyes puffy and cheeks wet with tears. Jeers from Lord
      Malfoy's side of the Wizengamot slid off him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You do understand she is never going to accept this,</em>
      said Slytherin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stopped before the metal chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was not one to stop finding solutions just because he had
      some candidates. Because some days would be like today, where all
      the straightforward solutions would be exhausted without effect.
      This wasn't even his last idea, he'd passed it over originally
      because it was dangerous. Danger was scary. And because its effects
      would be permanent. Terribly permanent. Irreversibly permanent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Attempting to send a 12 year old girl to Azkaban is an act of
      war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was not what anyone was expecting him to say. There was
      silence for a full minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you intend to fight a war, boy, with no weapons," said
      the scarred man next to Lord Malfoy, a bemused smile on his face.
      "And against all of magical Britain no less."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned, slowly, to face the Wizengamot. He stood straight,
      head erect, eyes cold as he surveyed the gathered lords and ladies.
      He could feel the dementor behind him through the two
      Patronuses.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You brought me a weapon," Harry said, the pure high pitch of a
      young boy's voice imcompatible with the deadly seriousness with
      which it was said. "In your hubris and your arrogance you imagined
      yourselves it's master."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some few eyes glanced at the dementor. Dumbledore was looking
      very sharply at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was recalling, quite distinctly, facing down a dozen
      dementors with nothing but a thought and a command. State of mind
      was key when dealing with dementors. People – other people that is,
      never Harry – could hear dementors speak because they imagined
      dementors had minds and could talk. Expectation drove observation.
      Set up the right expectation, and people's beliefs would cause the
      dementor to behave in that way. Reinforce it by projecting his own
      belief at the dementor in a forceful way and the outcome should be
      a foregone conclusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a moment, I'm going to cancel the Patronuses and prevent any
      more from being cast. Then <em class="calibre8">my</em> dementor is going to kiss
      everyone who voted to send a 12 year old girl to Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a sharp gasp from off to his right where Professor
      McGonagall was sitting. Then the room erupted into laughter.
      Dumbledore was frowning, his eyes looking down and right as if
      working through a puzzle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Of course, they didn't believe him yet. The dementor was still
      'safely' behind two Patronuses. It was a shocking claim. - two
      shocking claims actually. It was also certain that no one believed
      he could actually cancel the Patronuses. No one except Harry.
      There's a funny thing with belief. Make one unlikely statement and
      people will reject it out of hand. Make two unlikely statements,
      and then demonstrate the truth of one, and people were much more
      likely to believe both. Because he had comingled them, their truth
      values would be conflated in the minds of the Wizengamot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And the problem with the Patronus charm was that it worked by
      tricking your mind into holding onto the right thoughts. The actual
      manifestation wasn't necessary – thinking the right thoughts was
      sufficient to protect you from dementors, but it was <em class="calibre8">hard</em>.
      Hard to keep the mind focused on the right thoughts. The charm
      provided several useful features: it provided a concrete and
      physical action you could take, it gave you a totem that you could
      point to and say 'that is providing me safety', and it shielded
      others by putting those thoughts between the dementor and them
      rather than just in your own head. The last was a useful effect,
      but the others were only useful insofar as they gave you
      <em class="calibre8">confidence</em>. One problem was that all that confidence was
      built on an incorrect understanding of dementors. The real problem
      was that achieving that confidence when faced with the truth behind
      dementors required an entirely different kind of happy thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So all Harry had to do was speak the truth and the Patronuses
      would pop. One of his two unlikely claims being demonstrated, the
      members of the Wizengamot would instantly lend credence to his
      second claim, and their collective belief would drive the
      dementor's action.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Dumbledore who cut through the laughter and brought the
      room to silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No Harry! Don't!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Into that silence a boy's voice spoke: "The dementors are Death,
      and the Patronus charm works by thinking about happy thoughts
      instead of Death."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Two seconds later, he snapped his fingers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Patronuses behind him popped like soap bubbles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry, filling his mind with the earth among the stars,
      thrust that thought at Death and said "Kiss everyone who voted to
      send Hermione to Azkaban, but spare Lucius Malfoy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dementor struck many down before they even had a chance to
      react. Shock and surprise prevented any quick response. As the
      reality sunk in, suddenly the assembly sprang into motion. Wizards
      scrambled to their feet, tripping over seats and stumbling into
      others. Some few drew their wands, far too late, but no Patronuses
      appeared. Charles Notte attempted to apparate away, forgetting in
      his panic that most of the ministry was warded against apparition.
      A handful managed to extricate themselves from the benches to make
      a dash down the stairs for the door. They didn't make it. The
      dementor kissed them all. And when it was finished, an impossibly
      short time later, the Dementor stood before Harry Potter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fifty-five. That was the number of the corpses that surrounded
      the cowering Lucius Malfoy in the stone hall of the Wizengamot. A
      woman was being noisily sick among the benches for spectators.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three aurors and a good number of the remaining dignitaries of
      the Wizengamot all had their wands pointed at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I might observe that the only person capable of casting a
      Patronus in this room is me, much less controlling the dementor at
      all. And you will all be thinking much clearer with a Patronus
      present. I recommend you lower your wands and allow me to do
      so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wands lowered, slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expecto Patronum!" Harry said, and a brilliantly glowing person
      manifested before Harry. There were gasps from around the room. The
      Dementor hung loosely in the air, seemingly unaware of anyone or
      anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You know,</em> said Gryffindor, <em class="calibre8">I'm not sure
      <strong class="calibre9">I'm</strong> ok with what we just did.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Not now.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, are you ok," Harry said, turning his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," her voice weak, "Never. Ok. Again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was afraid of him, he could see it in her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Release her, please," Harry said to the Auror closest to him.
      "And she's going to need a wand, so unless you happen to have hers
      on you, I suppose yours will have to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gawain Robards looked plaintively up to the remaining members of
      the Wizengamot, where Amelia Bones slowly nodded her head. He then
      tapped the manacles with a short metal rod and they fell away, and
      while looking at Harry he offered his wand to Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, there's something we need to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The look of horror on her face was painful for him to look at.
      "Haven't you done enough," she said. She stood up but looked ready
      to bolt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Something Fawkes would want us to do." He held his left hand
      out to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked up, over Harry's shoulder, to where Fawkes and
      Dumbledore were. Her face changed, conflicted, the horror warring
      with something else. He didn't think he could look where Dumbledore
      was, he was too close to breaking emotionally already. She took his
      hand as if he might bite her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only because Fawkes wants it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter," said Lucius Malfoy, standing, confusion writ on
      his face. "Why am I alive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He considered Lucius for a moment. Then his face softened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because Draco is my friend, and Draco loves his father," he
      said softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius sat down abruptly, looking like he'd been struck.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry turned his attention to the Dementor, where his wand
      was still pointed and his Patronus stood idly waiting. And the
      Earth among the stars filled his mind, the promise of a future
      without death. He heard Hermione gasp beside him as his patronus
      became impossibly bright, drowning out the other gasps from the
      room. When it faded, there wasn't a Dementor anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry let his Patronus fade. He turned his attention to the
      remaining members of the Wizengamot.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Loudly he said, "I seem to recall this council just voted to
      send Hermione to Azkaban. I've changed my mind, I agree."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Harry filled his mind with fire and righteous fury. A
      Phoenix soared among the stars above the earth in his thoughts.
      Then Fawkes was there beside him, in the Wizengamot chambers, and
      then he and Hermione and the Phoenix were gone.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">For about the tenth time in the last two hours, Amelia Bones's
      mind failed her. She knew she should be doing something, but she
      just couldn't process what she'd seen. A muggle might have called
      it a system error, a blue screen of death, all she knew was her
      brain just wasn't working.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The boy said what? And then what? And then what? And then
      half the Wizengamot was dead? And then what? What? What!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones was not used to being this flummoxed. She had
      thought herself reasonably paranoid. She'd never prepared for this.
      No one expected a 12 year old boy who could command Dementors. No
      one expected <em class="calibre8">anyone</em> who could pop patronuses without even
      touching their wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One thing and only one thing was clear, she knew where he was
      going. Azkaban.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Why in the... Oh. Shit.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy who could command Dementors without a wand was gone to
      Azkaban. She should do something about this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She found she was sitting, so she stood up. Then she
      stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What do I do? Any aurors I send will be unable to defend
      themselves against dementors...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sat down again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I have a time turner in my office. I have 6 hours to figure
      out what to do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at Dumbledore. Dumbledore had his head in both hands,
      elbows on the podium, and... was he crying? That wasn't a good
      sign.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I don't think 6 hours is going to be enough time.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which was about when the rest of the remaining members of the
      Wizengamot started to come out of shock. Eyes started to turn
      towards her. She held up a hand to forestall any questions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no idea what I am going to do. What I <em class="calibre8">can</em> do.
      But if anyone has any suggestions, please, I am desperately in need
      of suggestions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No one said anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Six hours is definitely not going to be enough
      time.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
