<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility - Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility Chapter 2: Azkaban, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Azkaban</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">This took longer than expected. Other projects got in the way,
      and there were the inevitable delays normally associated with
      something you do for fun. But here it is, enjoy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">FWIW, I hope to update at least once a month.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I don't consider any of this 'finished', so if you have
      corrections or suggestions please feel free to be specific in the
      comments.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a sense of burning and fire and flames, pure and warm,
      and then, suddenly, she was a person again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The fear was the first thing to hit her. Familiar, mind-numbing
      horror smashed into her brain, magnified one-hundred times above
      any previous experience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few seconds later she heard the boy's voice say "Expecto
      Patronum" and the horror went away. Then she remembered the last 20
      minutes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fifty people dead on the word of an eleven-year-old boy. For
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione felt sick. There was an empty feeling near where
      <em class="calibre8">The Biology of Man</em> assured her the pancreas took up
      residence. And her brain kept insisting on playing back the murders
      in the Wizengamot in phantasmagoric slow motion. It was the eyes
      that haunted her. Terrified one moment, utterly empty the next, and
      the dream-images hung on each corpse across the space of those
      moments and let her savor it in detail.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't just that Harry Potter terrified her. And he did
      terrify her. But now she was complicit. Responsible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This inevitably sent her thoughts spiraling to her last morning
      at Hogwarts, where, knowing she had killed – attempted to kill –
      Draco Malfoy, she had done nothing in the hopes she wouldn't be
      caught.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">True horror, she realized, was not the artificial fear of
      dementors. True horror was a consequence of choices made for the
      worse, and having to live with those choices and their
      consequences. A patronus, or even just running away, would dispel
      the horror imposed by a dementor. There was nowhere to run from
      herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She realized Harry was looking at her. Sad. Hurt? Then she
      realized the hand she had given him before was withdrawn as if
      she'd been bitten. Was that <em class="calibre8">it</em>? What about what he'd done
      <em class="calibre8">to her</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Think of something else.</em> Fine silty mud sucked at her
      shoes as she shifted her feet. She noticed her robe was wet from
      far more than sweat and tears, and realized it was raining. A
      driving drizzle, if such a thing was possible. Heavy stone walls
      were vaguely visible through the rain in each of three directions.
      <em class="calibre8">Where am I?</em> At least that's what she meant to ask.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead she screamed "I'm only twelve!" into the rain. Totally
      overwhelmed, she collapsed to her knees and started crying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She didn't know how long she knelt in the ooze crying. Once
      started, the tears just wouldn't stop. At one point she felt Harry
      put his hand on her shoulder, but she couldn't even summon the will
      to shake him off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then suddenly there was warmth and comfort, like the best hugs
      her dad gave her. The warmth landed on her left shoulder and
      brushed against her cheek, cawing softly. She wiped her eyes before
      looking up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fawkes?" She had forgotten he was there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes lifted his head and screamed loudly towards the sky and
      the rain. She turned her head to look at Harry, who was looking
      down at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're in Azkaban, Hermione. The very center. Where the
      dementors are kept."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt the impulse to run in terror, but the peace from the
      Phoenix reinforced her resolve. She couldn't feel the dementors at
      all. <em class="calibre8">Why are we in Azkaban?</em> She noticed Harry's patronus,
      still standing in silent vigil.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We need to destroy them. All of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was definitely all too much. She was probably going
      insane.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't even cast a patronus, how are <em class="calibre8">we</em> going to do
      that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can, you just haven't thought about the problem."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wasn't sure what her facial expression was, but she was
      certain it was good impression of Professor McGonagall. Skeptical
      would be far too kind a word.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione, what are dementors?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fear."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was this a riddle? Hermione was pretty good at riddles, but this
      was a riddle that apparently most of the wizarding world got
      <em class="calibre8">wrong</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wait, hadn't Harry said something before the world went
      totally insane and people died?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione hadn't really been paying that much attention to what
      Harry was saying in the Wizengamot. There'd been the horror of the
      dementor behind her, and the horror of her impending sentence to
      Azkaban before her. To say she hadn't been thinking clearly was an
      understatement of gross proportion. But she had an excellent
      memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dementors are death.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She wasn't sure that made sense. Yes, death was fearsome. Many
      people were afraid of dying. <em class="calibre8">She</em> was afraid of dying. But
      she was afraid of lots of things, including a certain 11-year-old
      boy, and she was pretty sure <em class="calibre8">he</em> wasn't <em class="calibre8">death</em>.
      Well, reasonably sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">On the other hand, Harry was meticulous about "testing
      hypotheses", to the point where he disregarded the accumulated
      wisdom of older wizards. She still remembered the bats. He would
      have collected evidence. Hadn't he been asking other students what
      they saw when they looked at the dementor back in January...?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, why were you asking the others what they saw when they
      looked at the dementor? In January, I mean, when we were learning
      the Patronus charm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not quite the right question."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are very frustrating."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, what was the right question... Well, he also saw the
      dementor. Maybe he wanted to see if the others saw something like
      what he saw?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you see the same thing they did?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What <em class="calibre8">did</em> you see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Initially? Nothing."</p>
      <p dir="rtl" class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">!?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nothing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dementors' appearances, like their actions, conform to the
      expectations of people around them. Because most people believe
      false things about dementors, they see only falsehood. My brain
      caught itself trying to clothe the dementor in a lie and wouldn't
      let it, so I couldn't actually see it. To see a dementor for what
      it really is, you have to discover the truth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then Hermione was thinking about Godric Gryffindor's
      biography, which she had read cover to cover and cried afterwards.
      <em class="calibre8">Dementors are wounds in the world.</em> Not dead people or
      other nightmarish concoctions. Wounds. Nothingness. He had known,
      as Harry knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose we need to go find a dementor then." Hermione
      couldn't believe she had just said that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That shouldn't be hard." Harry deadpanned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Godric had enough courage to see the truth. Hermione could live
      up to his example. She had enough courage to have gone in front of
      a dementor knowing her patronus wouldn't work. She could be a hero,
      a real hero, despite her fear and her doubt. And her guilt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't take them long to find a dementor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dementor was just hanging in the air limply, totally unaware
      of anything. No sense of fear attacked Hermione's senses as they
      approached it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are they supposed to do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My patronus is kind of overwhelming for them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They stood there for a few moments in the muck, looking up at
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, Hermione, I can't really dispel my patronus safely. There's
      over 100 dementors down here and I'd need to be sure you could call
      one up immediately if I was even going to attempt that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The fear is just a distraction anyway, right? It helps sustain
      the delusion?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at the dementor hanging in space. She thought of
      how fearsome the dementor had been in January. She couldn't even
      look at it then. How it had spoken to her. Except it had told her
      exactly what she wanted and expected yet feared to hear. She had
      been worried for Harry, and distrustful of the Professor Quirrel,
      and she had heard it tell her that the defense professor wanted it
      to eat Harry. Her thoughts, her fears, projected on the dementor
      and speaking through the dementor's mouth. It was hard overcoming
      the power of memory even with it motionless and unaware.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Godric Gryffindor hadn't looked away when he had seen the truth,
      she was sure of it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I can be a hero. I am a hero. You frighten me but I am
      stronger than my fear.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But in that moment her guilt nearly overcame her. How could she
      be a hero now? Her complicity in Draco's attempted murder, her
      complicity in the murders in the Wizengamot – these were not the
      actions of a hero! That was when she realized that dementors didn't
      really frighten her anymore. Dementors were nothing next to her own
      guilt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Where at first the dementor had held an appearance of a terrible
      death, bloated, organs dangling from large tears in the flesh, it
      was now merely emaciated and sickly looking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You no longer frighten me.</em> Hermione stepped closer.
      <em class="calibre8">Your form is a lie.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was standing just before it now. Fawkes radiated heat from
      her shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No more lies.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the space of a blink it was gone. Before her there was a
      nothingness of substance where her mind refused to let her see.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I name you. You are death.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And there, in the mud and rain in the middle of Azkaban,
      Hermione saw death and comprehended it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Show me how to destroy them," she said without turning. Maybe
      she couldn't be a hero anymore, but her fear of dementors was
      broken.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Li still wasn't sure what was going on. It wasn't that the
      recent communication from Director Bones was unusual – it was far
      beyond unusual – it was her mood. She was shaken. This wasn't the
      all-business director who, while outraged and alarmed, hadn't just
      given up when Bellatrix Black escaped. She took charge and had done
      everything in her power to re-apprehend the fugitive. That she had
      thus far failed to recapture her hadn't slowed her down. But
      this...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked down at the orders he had requested in writing. <em class="calibre8">If
      you see anything unusual happening, report it immediately. Do not
      investigate.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And Director Bones had seemed... beaten. Li couldn't remember
      her ever being beaten. He had a terrible sense of foreboding.
      Something awful had happened, not that anyone was telling him
      anything, and it wasn't something as <em class="calibre8">simple</em> as "Bellatrix
      Black has escaped from Azkaban" or even "Voldemort has returned".
      What could possibly be so much worse than that? What could have
      happened to break Director Bones?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li looked out the window facing inward to the pit where the
      dementors stayed from across the room. Something that Director
      Bones thought was going to manifest here in Azkaban. Expected it
      to. There was no reason for these orders otherwise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Auror Li shuddered.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was certain that this wasn't how things were supposed
      to work.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your happy thought is <em class="calibre8">what?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My rejection of death as part of the natural order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just <em class="calibre8">killed</em> 50 people, not one hour ago!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have we not moved past that yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was <em class="calibre8">less than</em> an <em class="calibre8">hour</em> ago!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stormed off a couple paces. She wasn't feeling much
      like herself. Her guilt was gnawing at her, and it was making her
      moody and surly. It threatened to overwhelm her and reduce her to
      tears again. She needed a warm fire and a cup of tea and chocolate.
      Lots of chocolate. And a good book. And a day, a week, a month with
      no Harry Potter. His presence kept reminding her of those awful
      moments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't do this Harry. I'm not good enough. I can't be a
      hero."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're the most good person I know," Harry said softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tears gathered at the corner of her eyes. When would she be able
      to stop crying? She turned halfway. "I feel so guilty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You haven't done anything. You were False Memory Charmed into
      thinking you had killed Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did. I woke up and knew, or thought I knew, what had happened
      and said nothing. And then there's all those people dead..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which is entirely my fault. You were helpless at the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">asked.</em> And I <em class="calibre8">should</em> have known what
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> might have done. Professor Quirrel was right, you are
      dangerous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't believe I said that..." she finished quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That you should have known?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That Professor Quirrel was right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione," Harry began, pausing to find words. "I think its
      your guilt that makes you such a good person. You can't move past
      these things because you know they were wrong. And the very fact
      that you were even connected to something wrong upsets you
      horribly. Villains don't feel guilty about doing the wrong
      thing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When she didn't say anything he continued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe its guilt that makes heroes, real heroes, attempt to do
      the right things. Because they understand the consequences better
      than most, or feel them more keenly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was remarkable what words could do. Not that it made
      everything better, although she supposed that was part of the
      point, it was never going to be completely better. She needed to
      remember how awful it was. But those words gave her hope and
      perspective. Maybe it wasn't goodness that was lost, just
      innocence. The gnawing emptiness lessened a little bit. Just a
      little, but it was enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And hero or no, she couldn't let feeling guilty stop her from
      doing the right thing now. Dementors were evil, and destroying them
      was the right thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ok Harry, I'm together enough. For this. For now. Tell me about
      your happy thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And so Harry described the stars in space, perfect and coldly
      beautiful. He described the completion of the image, the earth as
      seen from space, among the stars. And you could feel the emotion in
      Harry's words as he described it – this was something he truly
      cared about. It was a wonderful image.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But her intuition was that Harry wasn't right. Couldn't possibly
      be right. Not completely. And yet there was Harry's Patronus,
      bright and pure in the drizzle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This is just another riddle. I'm smart enough to solve
      this.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dementors weren't physically Death. Sure, they could kill you,
      but so could a lorry if it hit you. And if you weren't being
      strictly literal, people weren't the only things who died. Dreams
      died. Hopes failed. Innocence was lost. Magic faded. People died a
      little inside every time these things happened. Small deaths before
      the final one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She remembered reading <em class="calibre8">The Lord of the Rings</em> and being
      upset at the end because all the magic was going away. It was
      ineffably sad, as if all bright colors were become muted and
      pale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had watched in horror as the Wizengamot debated her fate,
      and those who might have championed her remained silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She remembered her shame as Snape castigated her and S.P.H.E.W.
      She remembered Dumbledore saying nothing. Professor McGonagall
      hadn't even shown up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">People let evil happen by failing to take action to stop it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She needed to believe in a future of dreams fulfilled, evil
      vanquished, and hopes undimmed. She needed a world without all
      those deaths of spirit. But describing this world in swaths of
      pretty words wasn't enough. She needed a crystal clear vision,
      primal, her own metaphor for victory over death. The way Harry's
      earth among the stars metaphorically embodied his vision of a
      future without physical death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A world where Snape praised her? No. That would be a world with
      bullies still.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she remembered Draco helping her up off the floor.
      Draco who caught her when she slipped on the roof. Draco who
      visibly distanced himself from all the antagonism directed at her.
      Draco who she couldn't believe wasn't plotting against her, because
      he was Draco Malfoy. Draco, who had been doing what was right
      against all expectation and incentive. It was a strange bittersweet
      happy thought she arrived at: a world where she could innocently
      believe in a Draco Malfoy who was helping her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her wand came up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As she set her stance she realized that her world of hope and
      innocence, her happy thought against the darkness, was beyond her.
      That even if she made it a reality, there would be no place in it
      for her. But would Harry's world really have a place for him?
      <em class="calibre8">We pursue these things so that others may have them because we
      did not.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione... you're crying?..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She ignored him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Expecto Patronum!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A second glowing person joined the first in the pit of
      Azkaban.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
