<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility - Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility Chapter 4: Truth, Consequence, and Creative Fiction, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Truth, Consequence, and Creative Fiction</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Announcements!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To the best of my predictive powers to ascertain, this arc will
      be concluding with the next installment. Unless of course certain
      characters simply fail to shut up and keep talking for way too
      long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Following the conclusion of this arc, there will be an editing
      pass over all the chapters. Copyediting and whatnot. Probably also
      looking at some continuity issues (I think I spotted at least one
      error that I should probably fix).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I know what the next arc is. There will be less Harry, finally.
      Yes, I'm terribly sorry, and mildly annoyed, that he has featured
      so prominently. Hermione is the title character for a reason, its
      time to start focusing on her more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And last, but certainly not least, I'm looking for betas for
      some original fiction. Possibly several pieces of original fiction.
      The first is definitely a sci-fi mystery/thriller short story. If
      anyone is interested in betaing that or a longer fantasy piece
      that's in the works, PM me.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Dementor Disaster</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Wizengamot Decimated</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was what the headline of the Daily Prophet proclaimed. The
      exact nature of the disaster was carefully unspecified. Causes were
      'under investigation'. And assurances were most definitely made
      that the dementor in question was 'under control' thanks to the
      'valiant efforts of aurors at the scene.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Due to the volume of prominent obituaries, "Boy-Who-Lived
      Arrested for Underage Magic" was pushed back to page four. Like the
      front page, the story was littered with generalities and vague
      claims. The only statement that committed to anything stated simply
      'Mr. Potter is being detained at the Ministry.'</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quietly slipping onto the back page was the innocuous article
      "Wizengamot Considers Prison Without Dementors". It attributed the
      supposed motion to the aforementioned disaster on page one. No
      mention was made of the fact that magical Britain had perhaps three
      dementors left anywhere on the islands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter folded the paper before setting it aside. The
      carefully-worded lies and weasel non-statements weren't much of a
      surprise. Between Lucius Malfoy's control of the paper, what was
      likely several False Memory Charms used on the reporters present,
      and crafted statements by Amelia Bones temporarily acting as the
      head of the government, the truth had been meticulously plastered
      over. It was hard not to respect the skillful cover-up. Harry
      wondered if most of the Wizengamot still remembered what
      happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He placed the Daily Prophet on the desk before reaching for the
      Quiddler, which had been under it. He almost dropped it in shock
      when he finally got a look at its front page. "Harry Potter Fires
      Opening Salvo Against Death-Eaters" proclaimed the headline. His
      mouth worked soundlessly. Apparently several Death-Eaters had
      attacked Miss Granger, but they had been thwarted by Harry Potter,
      and most of them were killed in the attempt. Then the Boy-who-lived
      and Miss Granger had vanished mysteriously to safety.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry burst out laughing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was sitting in a nicely appointed apartment, somewhere
      proximal to the ministry building. Presumably this was some sort of
      diplomatic suite, usually used to house visiting magical
      dignitaries. The unit, and three others like it, were accessible
      only by floo network. Despite the impossibility of him going
      anywhere, there was an auror in the hallway that connected the four
      units who had been ordered to make sure Harry didn't leave the
      room. He presumed Hermione was also on the floor, but, having
      decided that further provoking Director Bones was a poor idea, he
      hadn't been able to look in on her. But the auror had gladly
      provided this morning's entertainment, courtesy of the
      newspapers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It couldn't be long before someone came to get him. They needed
      a resolution to this as much as he did.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hermione awoke, Dumbledore was standing over her, concern
      on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger, it is good to see you awake."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She found herself in a strange bed. The room was mostly dark,
      illuminated only by something which also radiated heat and comfort,
      oddly placed above and behind her on the back of the bed. She
      rolled her head back, arching her spine slightly to afford a clear
      view, and was surprised to see Fawkes perched above her. Hermione
      pushed herself up to a sitting position.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, where...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Somewhere safe, for the moment at least. Would that I could
      spare you this, but I must know. Tell me, what do you
      remember?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione couldn't bring herself to think of the events of the
      Wizengamot chamber, not with the peace radiating from Fawkes. But
      Azkaban was almost a happy memory. She brightened at the thought of
      the powerful light that had emanated from her. "...I cast a
      patronus. Harry helped me. It was so bright and pure, and... I
      could feel it... the peace... as it spread over the people... the
      prisoners..." She looked guardedly at Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there anything else you..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you know?" She interrupted</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore arched his eyebrows in question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you know about the condition of the prisoners. Of how
      horrible it was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was pain in Dumbledore's eyes, but he was slow to speak.
      Hermione recoiled against the back of the bed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You knew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I knew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How could you?! How could you let that place exist?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix light brightened from a subdued flame to a blaze. In
      the harsh light, Hermione could see Dumbledore's shoulders sag a
      little. His eyes sombre. Overall he seemed diminished. Haggard.
      Hermione felt a pang of sympathy for him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no certain answers for you. For all its unspeakable
      horror, it was a symbol of justice and law to witches and wizards
      in these isles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was looking past Dumbledore, was thinking about the
      woman that Harry described to her. "It was evil," she said
      flatly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see that you, too, have learned to speak with what voice
      phoenices might speak, were they to talk. Maybe it was evil, I can
      no longer say. But I could not lightly wield power against all
      opposition, and then, its been a long time since I was a hero."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione said nothing. Listening. Trying to understand the
      ancient wizard who before yesterday she would have proclaimed a
      beacon of goodness without question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been playing this game for too long, waiting for the next
      hero, for the cycle to repeat, for the story to go on. I thought it
      was my role, my duty as the mysterious old wizard, holding the fort
      until a champion was needed when darkness rose once more. But now I
      find that the hero doesn't need me as a mentor, and the one whom I
      thought would be champion keeps other counsel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry has made his own choices, as he always has."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, how do I save Harry from himself?" Fawkes was now a
      dim glow, casting long shadows across the wizened face that looked
      down on her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I wish I had the answers for you, Miss Granger. But I am out of
      answers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How can Harry be a hero after... that..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry is not the hero I referred to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a long moment as they looked at one another, the young
      witch and the old wizard. Her blood beat audibly in the silence,
      counting the seconds as they extended into minutes. Dumbledore gave
      her a sad smile that didn't reach his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione couldn't stand that smile. It looked like defeat. She
      broke the silence first, grasping at the first thing she could
      think of. "Headmaster, will you be taking Fawkes with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A Phoenix is not ordered. It goes where its heart tells it to
      go. And like the Phoenix, the cause of the good and the light does
      not suffer permanent death, but is gloriously reborn. Reborn in the
      hearts of new champions who will carry on where others left off.
      The phoenix follows the light."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione glanced at Fawkes again, who was looking down at her,
      head cocked. "I couldn't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He has chosen you, Miss Granger. Would you deny Fawkes his
      choice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She reached up to Fawkes, who nuzzled her hand briefly before
      stepping gently onto her wrist. She brought her arm down before
      her, across her body, feeling the warmth of the phoenix clearly.
      She didn't know what to say to Headmaster Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster, I don't understand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Don't trouble yourself, young Ravenclaw, it is not your burden
      to bear. There will be plenty of others for you. And mysterious
      wizards would fail to be mysterious if we were so easy to
      understand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another awkward silence descended briefly. Hermione broke it
      quickly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what happens to me now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Potter has secured your freedom. When you are fully
      recovered, you may return to Hogwarts. Professor McGonagall will be
      by later today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what will happen to Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am uncertain. He is to be meeting with Director Bones and
      some others at this moment to discuss the situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt a succession of contradictory emotions about Harry. It
      made her stomach ache hollowly and brought tears to her eyes where
      they glistened, unshed, in the phoenix light.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want to see him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you won't have to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She half-smiled. "Thank you for being here Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore stood straighter and nodded his head. Sensing the
      conversation had run its course, he slowly strode to the door from
      the room. He turned back to her, nearly lost in the shadows of the
      subdued light, his hand on the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Farewell Miss Granger. May we meet again under happier
      circumstances." Then he was out the door, closing it softly behind
      him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was gone by the time she'd understood those two
      sentences.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry found himself within a rather plain room, boxy and mostly
      bare. Grey paint was in various states of peeling about the walls.
      A rectangular table and four chairs were the room's only ornament.
      The auror escorting him led him to one of those chairs, facing the
      other three across the table. Harry pushed the chair back on its
      rear legs slightly before spinning it about and then sitting on it
      backwards, straddling the seat and resting his chest against the
      back of the chair. He looked at the auror, but there was no
      reaction. The auror left him there in the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If their positions had been reversed, Harry would let captive
      Harry sit. Make him sweat. Of course, Harry had seen muggle crime
      dramas. The whole thing seemed trite and ridiculous now that he was
      actually sitting there. Its not like he was going to come to some
      deep realization about how much trouble he was in, he already knew
      that. He'd had plenty of time to think while waiting in Azkaban,
      and again this morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was here because he wanted to be here. That gave him
      power. That gave him control.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To exploit that control he was going to need his dark side. He
      needed the clarity and he needed the threat of it just below the
      surface. So instead of thinking about guilt and consequences, he
      thought about pain. About the woman in Azkaban. About Hermione in
      the metal chair before the Wizengamot. He didn't fall into it
      though, but merely readied it, held like a pitbull on a tight leash
      with a trespasser before it. He was ready.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At last the door opened and three people filed solemnly into the
      room. Director Bones was first, stepping briskly to the center
      chair, crisp and professional. Lucius Malfoy followed behind her,
      taking the left chair. No surprises yet. The third was Professor
      McGonagall, moving with determination but without her usual energy.
      Harry forced himself not to frown. He'd been expecting Dumbledore.
      All of their faces were schooled masks of indifference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry permitted himself a sly smile as McGonagall was seating
      herself. He was never going to get a better chance to say this.
      Before Director Bones could assume control by speaking first, he
      spoke confidently, "I suppose you're wondering why I called you
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Three sets of eyes stared at him impassively across the table.
      But there was no backing down now. He was in control here. They
      were here because he had made them be here, and he wasn't going to
      concede anything he wasn't prepared to concede. This was
      <em class="calibre8">his</em> meeting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahem. Mister Potter..." Amelia finally began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's Potter-Evans-Verres."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Mister Potter,</em> you do understand the severity and
      significance of your actions which cause this to be necessary?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you seen the morning paper? I especially liked the
      Quibbler headline." He relaxed with his arms crossed before him
      over the back of his chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius's eyes darkened slightly, but he was otherwise the
      picture of stern composure. Amelia was giving him that look his
      father gave him when he was angry and wasn't going to let Harry
      change the subject. The only real reaction he got was from
      Minerva.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He ignored her. "You're not looking for proof of my
      understanding. I would hazard at most one of you cares at all
      what's going on in my head. What you're looking for is reassurance
      for yourselves that whatever devil's bargain you make today is the
      right one. You're looking for guilt so that you can use it to
      control me. I will not utter meaningless reassurances and I will
      not be blackmailed by my guilt. Should you find any reassurance
      after our discussion, it will be because you have reasonably come
      to the conclusion that the outcome will be better than if we had
      not talked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Potter, these..." Amelia began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter-Evans-Verres."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Potter-Evans-Verres," she sighed, "these are serious
      offenses against state and society."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Offenses that you seem unwilling to make public. Although the
      news did make for entertaining reading this morning. Where is
      Dumbledore anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The administration of Hogwarts is represented here, Mister
      Potter," McGonagall said sternly. Harry filed that under things to
      think about later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before we talk about anything of substance then... has everyone
      been read in?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't expect an answer. Instead he paid careful attention
      to their reactions. Lord Malfoy raised one eyebrow slightly,
      nonchalantly. Director Bones pupils dilated just a little, her face
      assuming the poise of someone who knew they were composing their
      face to show no response. McGonagall's eyes glanced to her right
      quickly, her mouth open just a fraction, before she regained her
      composure. Her hands smoothed her skirt beneath the table in
      distraction.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I suppose that answers that. Thank you for your
      honesty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As fascinating as this is, Mister Potter-Evans-Verres," Lord
      Malfoy began, Harry's full last name sharp and precise, "would you
      please stop wasting our time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Potter-Evans-Verres," interjected Director Bones. "I am
      not in the habit of making deals with cold-blooded mass murderers.
      Before we go any further you will tell me what in the Fiddly-Snocks
      you were thinking."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh this should be a fun game. Let me guess, I try to find the
      explanation that I think you will find most sensible, and you try
      to tell how badly I'm lying?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I want, Mister Potter-Evans-Verres, is the truth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a great set up, but my Robert DeNiro isn't very good.
      Maybe after puberty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. I could tell you that I chose the course of action
      that I did because I expected it to be better than the
      alternatives. That I was cognizant of the fact that many of the
      dead were either Death Eaters themselves or willing pawns of Death
      Eaters. That I couldn't necessarily name all the names but I'm
      certain you have your suspicions Director Bones. And that my
      action, while alarming on its own, will likely prove beneficial in
      the next war. That would be a lie, although there is certainly
      truth to it, but it was not what I was thinking. It would be a post
      hoc justification, and I try to be more honest with myself than
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we shouldn't discard that observation either. Because even
      if I wasn't thinking that, my actions still have the same impacts,
      the same consequences."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what of the consequences, Mr. Potter, to Miss Greengrass,"
      Professor McGonagall interjected. "She lost her mother yesterday. A
      mother who, to the best of my knowledge, was never a Death Eater,
      and never in their thrall. Or there's Theodore Nott, who lost his
      great-grandfather and guardian, a man who may have been sympathetic
      to the Death Eaters himself, but that is not salve for a child's
      grief. They're not the only children who lost family members,
      although they're the only ones you may have known well. Would you
      have liked to have taken my place last night when I told each of
      them. Seen those consequences first hand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes briefly. Somewhere inside a part of him
      was screaming. He opened them again and met Minerva's gaze.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that, professor, is why I'm here, and why we're having this
      conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He thought he saw relief, if only for a moment, in McGonagall's
      eyes. <em class="calibre8">No Minerva, you haven't lost</em> <em class="calibre8">me to darkness, not
      yet.</em> But then it was gone or perhaps he'd just imagined it. He
      turned his attention back to Director Bones.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I was thinking was that any group which would condemn a
      twelve-year-old girl to Azkaban had such a fundamental values
      dissonance with me that conflict was inevitable. In effect they,
      and by extension of the power they wielded as the voting majority
      of the Wizengamot, the government of Magical Britain itself, had
      declared war on my values. I said as much to them. To you. I'm sure
      it did not help matters that the twelve-year-old girl in question
      was my friend, but I'd like to think that I'd object to anyone my
      age being sent to torture and murder masquerading as justice. I
      tried to forestall the conflict with a less drastic solution. I was
      blocked at every turn. There are some values which I will not
      sacrifice, not when it is within my power to protect them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And you still believe what you did was right," Amelia Bones
      said. It was not a question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was. They were guilty the moment they voted."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Self-serving nonsense." Lucius Malfoy pushed himself up from
      the table. "To hold a twelve-year-old girl's life above the lives
      of over fifty men and women? Preposterous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should you happen to come across several armed thugs robbing a
      single man, their weapons drawn, do you protect the man or his
      assailants?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not susceptible to your sophistry Mister Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You protect the man, Lord Malfoy, because its not just about
      the one man in his person, its about all the other possible men and
      women who could and will be in that place if the thugs are not
      dealt with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had raised his head and held Lucius's eyes while he spoke.
      And then he could feel it, the tiny feelers of legilimency scraping
      across the surface of his mind. Harry was going to let him find
      nothing, frustrate him with the fact of his occlumency, but then a
      wild idea took him. He brought two thoughts to the forefront of his
      mind, in front of his barriers. The first, something he had read in
      one of the recent histories. <em class="calibre8">All the power of the dark lord in
      his scar.</em> The second, a memory. The memory of his voice as he
      acted as the dark lord, just the voice, a chill whisper in the
      endless night of Azkaban. <em class="calibre8">Hello, my dear Bella. Did you miss
      me?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">In Harry's mind, but only in his mind, behind his occlumency
      barrier, there was a sound of fingers snapping.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius stumbled back into his chair, toppling it and almost
      falling over himself. There was a brief look of pure fear in his
      eyes before he composed himself again. With deliberate slowness he
      bent down and righted his chair before reseating himself. Both
      McGonagall and Bones looked at him curiously before turning back to
      Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems to have established the facts of the matter,"
      Director Bones said. "Now, as to Azkaban, what exactly did you do
      with the Dementors, Mister Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe I told you already. I ate them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be more specific, Mister Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"-Evans-Verres. And they are no more. Dust and less than
      dust."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one destroys their strongest weapon voluntarily," Lord
      Malfoy said, more to the two adults than the child they faced.
      Harry smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You conclude he is lying, Lucius?" Amelia said to him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is one possibility," Harry offered, resting his chin on
      his arms. "There is another."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius had not taken his eyes off Harry. Amelia and Minerva
      exchanged a worried look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahem. As to the terms of your incarceration..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe the only charge you're willing to make public is
      underage magic use, Director Bones."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could have your wand snapped for that alone, Mister
      Potter-Evans-Verres," the Director of the DMLE said sharply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that we would imagine doing such a thing to you, Mister
      Potter, of course," Lord Malfoy said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was going to take awhile.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In the end, it wasn't as bad as Harry had been willing to
      accept. Ten years of imprisonment, here, in the elegant apartment
      they had been keeping him in already. Access to tutors and
      educational materials – McGonagall had agreed immediately with him
      on that. Use of wand while supervised. Visitors permitted. It
      wasn't much different than his expected future at Hogwarts, albeit
      a bit longer and without peers readily available. Lucius had become
      an unexpected ally, and so Harry had merely had to steer the
      conversation in the appropriate directions and let it run its
      course.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The exact nature of the agreement would be a state secret, known
      only to the Wizengamot, who would ratify it tomorrow. It felt, to
      Harry, that he was being treated like a political prisoner more
      than anything else. Which made sense, in a way. There had even been
      a formal declaration of war. This was the peace treaty.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall had escorted him through the floo travel and back to
      the apartment, before going to check on Hermione. Harry had wanted
      to look in on her, but Minerva had been resolute that he should go
      to his rooms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was something slightly amiss when he entered, some
      nameless difference that he felt more than observed. Intuition
      making leaps with evidence his conscious mind hadn't fully
      processed. He walked over to the bedroom and opened the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was sitting in an upholstered chair, his purple robes
      blending into the darkness of the unlit room. His hat was in his
      lap.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good evening Harry. I thought we might speak one last
      time."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
