<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility - Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility Chapter 6: Bechdel Fail, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="17. Hermione Granger and the Burden of Responsibility"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 6: Bechdel Fail</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">A/N: What was in the teaser has changed a little bit,
      but should still be mostly recognizeable. And there's
      more!</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">Next month: more Tracey-driven shenanigans. I *think*
      this arc will only take three months, but we'll see.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre9">In the longer term, I'd like to have some idea what EY's
      Quirrel plan was before everything went pear-shaped in this fic.
      However, given how close to the chest he seems to be keeping that,
      and the long periods of time between updates, I may not have that
      luxury. We'll see what happens - it may be that I'll just have to
      assume my crazy theories about where he's going are true. (That
      might just be more fun anyway, but I would like to keep this to a
      single point of divergence if at all possible).</strong></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione Granger stood before the door to the first year
      Slytherin common room. She was too scared to knock on the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a voice in her head saying <em class="calibre8">This is Hermione
      Granger standing before the Slytherin common room. She is too
      scared to knock on the door.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another voice in her head saying <em class="calibre8">There is a voice
      in her head saying "This is Hermione Granger standing before the
      Slythering common room. She is too scared to knock on the
      door."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was yet another voice in her head that sounded remarkably
      like Harry saying something about depth of recursion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was still another voice in her head trying out dirty names
      to call Harry for having introduced her to the concept. A good girl
      shouldn't have to listen to so many inane voices in her head. She
      supposed she should be thankful that the worst names she came up
      with sounded far too comical and cartoonish to actually be
      considered dirty; she was sure she'd heard something truly foul
      before, somewhere, but apparently her brain couldn't even think
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A fifth voice, the only one she felt comfortable assigning to
      herself in her internal pentalogue, wondered idly if this was what
      it was like in Harry's head all the time. Or did Harry's brain
      manage to sound like multiple complicated books in surround sound?
      She would have to ask him if they were ever on speaking terms
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She still hadn't even worked her brain up to the task of
      convincing herself to actually knock on the door, like she'd set
      out from Ravenclaw to do, when the door opened in front of her.
      Conversation spilled out around Tracey Davis, whose purposeful
      expression was replaced by shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione? What are you doing here?" The sounds of conversation
      from the room stopped. Tracey's eyes went wide. "What are
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> doing <em class="calibre8">here?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was... um... I wanted to... eheheheh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey closed the door hard behind her. "Do you know what
      they'll do if they caught you here?" she indicated behind her with
      her head. "You need to not be here. Now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-secret stairs."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione didn't move, her mind still catching up with just how
      stupid her plan was, in retrospect. No, not just in retrospect. She
      should have thought this through more. Tracey spun around, wand in
      hand, and bit off "Colloportus" at the door before grabbing
      Hermione by the arm.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Move. Now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stumbled after Tracey as the Slytherin girl pulled her
      towards the stairs. The sound of the door rattling behind her
      finally got her brain to engage her feet. The girls fled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the top of the stairs, panting with exhaustion, the girls
      stumbled to a halt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">
      "Wha..hea...teyeh...dih...hea...yewe...hing...kyeh...hue...ouer...hoo...heng...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I...I...hsss...hssta...hop." Hermione held up her left hand as
      she caught her breath.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Their breathing slowly returned to normal. Hermione relaxed her
      right hand where it rested on her wand; any pursuit had apparently
      been short-lived, in worse shape than they were, or male and unable
      to follow. Hermione regarded Tracey. They hadn't been especially
      close, but Tracey had been in SPHEW. She might have expected aid
      from Daphne, but Tracey... maybe she'd made a bigger impression
      than she'd thought. Or maybe Tracey had her own motivations that
      would sweep Hermione up in some crazy plot that wouldn't even make
      sense with a flowchart, three colors of highlighter, and a centaur
      seer. Was that the sound of ominous music playing...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was there some clever plan that involved getting beat up by
      Slytherins? Ooh! Were Harry's dark powers going to manifest to
      protect you, proving his undying love for you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought... I..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh just spit it out. I already know it had to be stupid, or
      romantic, or both! Its not like anything you say could be more
      embarrassing than what the rumor mill is going to come up
      with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where do you even come up with that stuff!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'd risk getting beat up by several dozen students for that! To
      channel my dark lord's powers again... But seriously, why were you
      there?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought I should apologize to Draco."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You... you... you..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione watched in dawning horror as Tracey's eyes went from
      confusion to a moment of eureka and her mouth spread in a wide
      maniacal smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You tried to kill Draco because you're secretly in love with
      him but couldn't have him because you're a muggleborn and Draco is
      a pureblood, but now... ah... now its been discovered that you
      really had wizard parents and maybe he'll forgive all and recognize
      the advantages in making you the next Lady Malfoy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? But that doesn't even..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, wait. You're soul-bound to Harry, of course – can you be
      soul-bound against your will? – but Harry traded you to the Malfoys
      to save your life! And since you were in love with Draco anyway,
      ever since he caught you on the roof..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry and I are <em class="calibre8">not soul-bound</em>, whatever that even
      means! I don't even think that's a real thing!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But otherwise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? No!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you and Harry aren't seeing each other anymore, can I have
      him? You don't have to take Draco. I mean, I <em class="calibre8">was</em> plotting
      to marry both of them..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"ggihakjgh."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey grabbed her wrists with an eager expression on her face.
      "Please tell me that was yes in Swahili or Goblin or some other
      language."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione sat down abruptly, pulling Tracey down with her. She
      couldn't think, overwhelmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey crouched in front of her, dropping her wrists and putting
      her hands on her shoulders. "Hermione, are you okay? You don't have
      to decide all at once. But if you were also plotting to marry both
      of them, well, it'll be easier if we agree to divide them up and
      not waste our efforts fighting over them." The Slytherin witch let
      go of her shoulders and rocked back on her heels. "Unless you want
      to come to one of those... you know... arrangements. Does that work
      with four people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione was deliberately trying to tune Tracey out, in part to
      stop the onslaught of insanity, and in part because a voice she
      identified as Harry was reminding her that it was better to neither
      confirm nor deny wild speculation. That seemed like remarkably good
      advice, given she couldn't actually tell Tracey what happened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tracey! You know I can't talk about what happened, so I can
      neither confirm nor deny that... uhh... Harry traded me to the
      Malfoys so they'd spare my life." That was remarkably hard to say.
      How did Harry say stuff like that with a straight face? "And how
      likely do you think you'll randomly guess the right thing by wildly
      speculating?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... you aren't relinquishing your claim on Harry?" Tracey's
      face fell a little. "What about one of those... you know..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Gaaaaak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, think about it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh Merlin I hope not!" A voice in her head followed up with,
      <em class="calibre8">see, you can curse!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey pulled herself into a sitting position next to Hermione,
      hands on her knees in front of her. "You know, as long as we're
      talking, I could use some help with something..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So long as it doesn't have anything to do with Harry... or
      Draco... or one of... ick."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, not at all. Well, I'm pretty sure not... No, Daphne seems
      way too normal for that... or is it the normal ones you have to
      watch out for..." Tracey stared off into space in thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, what about Daphne?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, she's so sad now after her mother... you know... the
      'dementor disaster'".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It had been awful just sitting there watching when she hadn't
      known any of the victims, but some of them would have children.
      Children her age. Greengrass was a Most Ancient and Noble House, of
      course her mother was there. Her mother who had just happened to
      vote to send Hermione to Azkaban. Hermione felt sick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I was thinking, I should figure out a way to cheer her
      up... You don't look so good."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I... I... I can't talk about it." Hermione was near tears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"S-Sorry I brought it up. I forgot, you were actually there. Was
      it awful?" The other girl's eyes were wide.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Awful..." Hermione muttered. Tracey had no idea.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, at least you had Harry to protect you. But Daphne isn't
      eating or going to classes or anything, so I thought I should do
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shook her head. <em class="calibre8">Protect her?</em> No. Remembering
      the events that ended the Wizengamot session was not productive.
      "How could we help cheer up Daphne?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She's really sad, so I thought it would have to be something
      really special. And when I'm upset or sad, thinking about boys
      makes me happy. Or plotting. Or plotting that involves getting
      boys." Tracey put her hands behind her and leaned back on her arms.
      "And I'd think actually having a boy there would be even better.
      And its not like we can <em class="calibre8">make</em> her plot, but we might be
      able to convince a boy..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's face turned red. "What exactly are you thinking
      about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, when I'm thinking about boys, it's usually Harry, and I
      channel his dread powers, and then he..." Tracey gestured with her
      near hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, really, I don't need... Forget I asked."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sorry, I know Harry is yours, and it's not always Harry.
      Sometimes it's Draco. Or..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Tracey!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What, it's not like I've imagined you and he and myself having
      one of those..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...please stop..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... maybe I should. What do people do with three people
      anyway?" Tracey's near hand went to her chin. "I mean, it would be
      kind of hard to kiss two people at the same time, wouldn't it? And
      where do they put all the hands?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you at least have the courtesy to blush when you say
      stuff like that?" Hermione almost yelled. Finding someone to
      Obliviate this entire conversation was starting to look
      particularly appealing. She didn't want to be thinking about this.
      Good girls did not think about this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You should hear the stuff I overhear some of the older
      Slytherin girls saying in the bathroom. I'm not even sure its all
      anatomically possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's right hand came up, index finger crooked, as if
      uncertain what it should point at. She started to open her mouth
      and then shut it. Her brain wouldn't even form the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then there's the group of older girls who write stories
      about other students... and professors... and other... things... I
      mean, Hogwarts/Giant Squid, who comes up with this stuff?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione put her head in her hands. "Why me?" she asked
      softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So anyway, all we have to do is figure out a nice boy whom
      Daphne likes. Then we need to manipulate that boy into going to
      Daphne, but that shouldn't be hard. I mean, she's noble and pretty.
      Any boy should want to be her boyfriend, right? There's just some
      boy code about appearing weak in front of other boys."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your plan is to find a nice boy..." At least this seemed like a
      safer conversation thread than... whatever it was Tracey liked to
      think about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...that Daphne likes!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...and get him to give her a shoulder to cry on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, and hopefully kiss..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...and this will make Daphne happy?" Did Harry make her happy?
      Sometimes. But also angry. And frequently confused. Boys didn't
      seem like the answer to everything. And the kissing thing... that
      hadn't worked out so well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...unless what she actually wants is a wizard who will use her
      to channel his dark powers? But there's already you and me – how
      many other girls could there be in our class who want
      <em class="calibre8">that</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's mouth opened, but she was again speechless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you and Harry go off and do by yourselves anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head to clear it. "What? Read. Or talk. Or
      science. Why?" She mentally kicked herself immediately after
      speaking. She was starting to see the value in Harry's policy of
      denying everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Science?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We... experiment?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ooh, I think I've heard some of the older Slytherin girls
      talking about 'experimenting'. Do tell!" The Slytherin girl rotated
      her torso to face her, leaning in conspiratorially.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With magic," she said quickly, thinking that would explain
      everything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well duh, where do you think they get the tentacles from?"
      Tracey asked, her arms thrown wide.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What? ... buh... … Ack!" Hermione fell backwards, suddenly glad
      she was sitting on the floor. Still the floor was awful hard when
      she cracked her head on it. "Ow."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey leaned over her. "Are you okay? Was it something I
      said?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is there anything else you'd like to mention about Mister
      Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">McGonagall arched her eyebrows at the flame in the fireplace of
      the Headmaster's Office. "I'm quite sure that's enough to cause
      plenty of trouble."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shall we review and make sure nothing has been left off?
      Original discovery in transmutation. Realized the fundamental
      principle of potionry." The sound of a pen making a mark after each
      item carried through the flames as Amelia Bones read off the list
      she had made. "Owns an invisibility cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd have to ask Albus for more information about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"... if I can find him. A new charm which 'blinds dementors' …
      and apparently destroys them if my eyes are to be believed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus did not care to share that particular effect of the charm
      with me, if he even knew."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggle-raised with a keen interest in muggle artifacts. Has a
      time turner. Is an occlumens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Also Albus's doing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And apparently deduced or discovered a secret which lets him
      command dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva remembered <em class="calibre8">that</em> moment quite clearly. The
      all-too-calm young boy's voice cast before the storm of the
      dementor's fury. <em class="calibre8">Dementors are death.</em> She must have
      visibly reacted, because she lost track of whatever Director Bones
      was saying until disturbed from her revery by a polite cough from
      the other side of the flames.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You look pale as a ghost."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would hope what happened would be enough to shake even the
      strongest of us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia's eyes cast downward, possibly reading over the list one
      more time, before looking back at her. "Are you certain Mr. Potter
      was not involved in freeing Bellatrix Black from Azkaban?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"His time turner is restricted to evening use, and he managed a
      full 6 hour shift that night. If he were involved, his time turner
      was not... and the defense professor would be implicated as well."
      Now that was a frightening thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They are close?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I could not say how close, but Harry did make several weekend
      trips to Diagon Alley with Professor Quirrel."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mister Potter isn't secretly an animagus, is he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that I'm aware, and what I know of his activities wouldn't
      have left much time for the meditation. Nor would I expect Mister
      Potter to become one without proper instruction, supervision, and
      registration – but then I hadn't expected what happened at the
      trial either."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No matter, we have ways of testing such things."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that is all, Amelia, I really do have a lot of things to do
      today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You've been most helpful, Minerva. I hope we can have a more
      productive working relationship than Dumbledore and I did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As do I. Oh, Amelia, would you be so kind as to return our
      defense professor to us soon? NEWTs are coming up, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are concluding our investigation of his actions with respect
      to Lord Malfoy's heir. Barring some unforeseen complication, I
      expect he'll be released shortly. I may need to borrow him again in
      the matter of Bellatrix's escape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If at all possible, please wait until after NEWTs. Good day,
      Amelia."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In the end it was decided, mostly by Tracey, that they needed
      additional help finding a suitable boy. <em class="calibre8">We clearly don't have
      normal tastes in boys – we should find someone who does!</em> Which
      of course meant they had to decide who would have normal taste in
      boys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That wasn't totally accurate, actually. Tracey had floated the
      idea of seeing if Daphne had a journal and using it to find someone
      she liked. But, in addition to the obvious difficulty of any such
      journal being near Daphne's bed, which was perpetually occupied by
      her at the moment – a difficulty that didn't seem to bother Tracey
      at all – Tracey also insisted that Daphne might be attracted to
      'bad boys' who wouldn't be any good for her – apparently that's
      what most women really wanted, according to Slytherin
      upperclasswomen gossip – and what Daphne actually <em class="calibre8">needed</em>
      was a boy who would be good for her. Hermione had just acquiesced
      at that point. Even trying to think through what passed for Tracey
      logic had required too many parentheticals to express to actually
      make sense. Not that her brain hadn't dutifully complied and made
      the necessary mental circumlocutions, but she wasn't thinking about
      it. Really.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which meant now they needed to decide whom to ask. Yes, this was
      completely sensible and not even a little silly. Not at all.
      Hermione was most definitely not questioning why any other girl
      would do better than they were – not that they had really come up
      with anything, mind you – but just about every other girl Hermione
      had heard give relationship advice had been <em class="calibre8">crazy.</em> Clearly
      there was something about boys which just caused girls' brains to
      switch off. Regardless, given the advice <em class="calibre8">she'd received</em> in
      the past, trying to find a boy who might actually bring happiness,
      immediate happiness, to Daphne was a lost cause. <em class="calibre8">'You just
      don't understand male psychology. Granger's got to make it look
      like she can mysteriously resist his seductive charm.'</em>
      Madness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe we should ask Lavender?" Tracey asked. Former SPHEW
      associates seemed to be the obvious choice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lavender with her hero outfit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure, why not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we aren't exactly looking for a hero, and I'm pretty sure
      that's who she's looking for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The brave knight come to rescue Daphne from her depression!
      'Here milady, have a shoulder to cry on.'" Tracey threw her voice
      as low as she could. Hermione couldn't help a small laugh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, the Slytherin dorms are in a dungeon. A perfect location
      for a rescue." Hermione observed with a smile. If you were going to
      do something crazy, might as well get in the spirit of the
      occasion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"'My hero!'" Tracey threw her voice higher than usual, and put
      the back of her hand on her forehead in a mock swoon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Really not sure we're going to get any good ideas from
      Lavender, though."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't have to tell her why we're asking. Just ask about
      which boys she thinks are nice, and then we can decide whether any
      of them are worthy of 'our lady' Daphne."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Entertaining failure would at least be entertaining, which was
      better than what most of her life had been like recently. No time
      like the present.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey was indefatigable, and they'd gone through much of the
      Gryffindor common room while they'd been there. Talking about boys
      was <em class="calibre8">exhausting</em>. And they'd heard so many recommendations
      that, afterwards, they'd decided they had too much information. And
      they weren't sure which Gryffindors could be trusted to give
      <em class="calibre8">good</em> advice on boys.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least hanging out with Gryffindors hadn't been uncomfortable,
      well, not in the way that Ravenclaw was currently uncomfortable.
      Rather than her pariah status in her own house, Hermione felt like
      she was a celebrity in Gryffindor. Admittedly it made her feel
      uncomfortable in a different way, but she wasn't thinking about
      that right now. At all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll give you this much," Hermione said, as they left the
      vicinity of the Gryffindor first year dorms, "this is a better plan
      than your idea to tie Harry up and cart him around to find bullies.
      At least we'll ultimately choose someone, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, that would have worked! We should have tried! You'll come
      to appreciate my strategic brilliance once I prove I'm not the one
      who's crazy!" The maniacal laughter that followed was not
      convincing.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre7"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione supposed it was inevitable that they'd end up going to
      Hannah. Hannah was kind and shy and, according to Tracey, almost
      certain to only like clean-cut 'good boys'. <em class="calibre8">'Unless of course
      she's hiding a bad girl streak, but I don't think she has it in
      her.'</em> Hermione was doubly glad she didn't listen to...
      whatever it was older Slytherin girls talked about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione really should have seen this coming.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They'd gotten Hannah out into the hallway, along with Susan
      Bones who was justifiably curious, because the Hufflepuff common
      room was simply too uncomfortable for Hermione. Tracey had already
      asked the question, '<em class="calibre8">are there any boys you think are
      nice?</em>', when Hermione remembered the conversation SPHEW had
      immediately after the protest. <em class="calibre8">'There's a boy I like.'</em> No,
      that wasn't the specifically relevant memory, it was Daphne
      speaking. <em class="calibre8">'She likes Neville Longbottom, actually.'</em> But
      what made Hermione uncomfortable was not the knowledge that Neville
      was almost certainly the boy Hannah was going to name. <em class="calibre8">'And
      unfortunately for her, he's going to marry someone else. It's very
      tragic.'</em> It was obvious, once you thought about it, not that
      Hermione had been very interested in the topic at the time. She
      knew who Daphne liked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um, you promise not to tell?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tracey..." Hermione started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey gave her a look. "Of course we won't tell. We're your
      friends, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I think Neville is nice," Hannah said softly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tracey, maybe we should rethink this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No no, Neville's perfect. I mean, he was number four on my
      list, but I'd give him up for Daphne."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Um?" Hannah squeaked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, what?" said Susan, injecting herself in the conversation.
      "What exactly are you plotting? What does Daphne have to do with
      this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm going to cheer Daphne up by giving her Neville Longbottom!"
      Tracey smiled hugely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But..." Hannah looked at Hermione with large eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tracey, maybe we should reconsider..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh no, I have the perfect plan." There was a gleam in Tracey's
      eyes as she rubbed her hands together.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three other girls looked at each other with various
      expressions. Hannah's look was closest to horror, Hermione merely
      uncomfortable, Susan confused but disapproving.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tracey, you don't just give people to other people," Susan said
      sternly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I thought we were going to convince whomever to..." Hermione
      was stopped by an evil laugh from Tracey. That was not a good sign.
      Wait. "No Tracey! You are <em class="calibre8">not</em> stunning Neville, tying him
      up, and dragging him down to the Slytherin dungeons!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aw, but that would work for sure this time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not the solution to everything!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You mean there are problems that can't be solved by stunning a
      boy and tying him up?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
