<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Orders of Magnitude - Orders of Magnitude, Chapter 26: Will We Die, Just a Little?</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Orders of Magnitude"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s29" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 26: Will We Die, Just a Little?</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6">All of the following is true. It is not, however, necessarily
      useful.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Magic is Real; that is to say, Magic is theoretically possible,
      and is therefore a subset of reality. As such, there are no ends
      that Magic can achieve which cannot be achieved without Magic; that
      is to say, Magic is not strictly necessary.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The “language” of Magic, like first-order logic, is primitive,
      basic, and mind-numbingly obtuse at any reasonable level of
      complexity. So it should be no surprise that one of the most basic
      discoveries in Functional Magic Theory is that Magic is
      non-recursive. That is to say, Magic cannot cast Magic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">However, most Functional Magical Theorists have not read Gödel,
      Escher, Bach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It is possible (although complicated) to cast a spell which
      references itself. Therefore, it is possible to write a spell which
      references Magic as a whole. Therefore, it is possible to write a
      spell which recreates Magic as a whole. And because any effect that
      Magic is capable of causing can be duplicated without Magic, it is
      possible to recreate Magic without the use of Magic.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">“Am I to be impressed?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had learned the subtleties of the synthesized voice of
      Lord Voldemort, and at this particular point it conveyed weariness.
      “You have succeeded at creating a physical embodiment of a
      tautology.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Professor, I don’t think you understand the implications.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“How often will you forget that I am not, unlike your fellow
      companions, a wholesale idiot? Of course I understand the
      implications. And if you would permit yourself to see those
      implications through to their endpoint, you too would be
      unimpressed. This was always your weakness, boy: you grow impatient
      after the first few levels, and are too easily satisfied with your
      oversimplified explanations. But with every problem, there are
      levels upon levels upon levels that must be considered.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry rolled his eyes. “So how do you know when to stop? You’re
      right of course, but that doesn’t tell me anything useful either.
      There are infinite levels to any problem.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If Lord Voldemort’s box had a face, it would be smirking. “When
      you are one level higher than everyone else.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“That’s quite clever.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Yes, well, that is why we are in our respective prisons. I know
      you, boy. I know that you have grown, and I know that you truly
      believe that you play the game at a sufficiently high level to win,
      and in some ways you have. In other ways, you have not. I am you. I
      know how we think. I know how I thought at your age. You have
      anticipated my blaseness, and yet you tell me anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Clearly you have thought through the first few levels of our
      interaction, so it would please me if we did not waste time by
      going through the motions. You are not so eager for praise as you
      were years ago; you would not simply tell me for the sake of having
      someone to tell, which means that there is some trump card, some
      hidden bit of lore that, in your opinion, changes the state of the
      game. What is it?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Sorry Professor. There’s no lore, no trump card, no hidden
      knowledge or artifacts.” Harry paused. “You could say it’s
      something of a riddle.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was another pause, this one even briefer. “You have found
      the second Box.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. “Not found. Recreated.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Voldemort measured his words carefully. “I confess that I
      am still no expert in the trite practice of being nice, so I did
      not anticipate this. Of course, you would not truly release me. You
      have created the second Box of Orden, and within it placed a small,
      unbroachable, inescapable world that is free from Magic, and within
      that placed one of my Horcruxes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“You have created a crude, basic facsimile of Magic within this
      world, sufficient to allow me access to my Horcrux. Because I have
      sensed no avenue of release, clearly you have not activated the
      reconstruction of Magic, which means you are waiting for the proper
      moment to unveil it. Much like myself, you always had a taste for
      the dramatic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I suppose, Mr. Potter, that you were hoping that the moment of
      dawning comprehension would follow your grand gesture, not precede
      it. I apologize for not playing the role you were expecting.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn’t keep himself from grinning as he, in response,
      snapped his fingers. “I expected you would expect that. Levels and
      levels, Professor. I knew that you would figure out what I had done
      quickly enough, and from there it would be fairly trivial to
      determine exactly when I would allow you access to the second Box.
      So the only way to beat you at this little game of who could
      outlevel the other was to completely take myself out of the
      equation, so I brought in my secret weapon: Luna Lovegood, the
      Platonic ideal of pure randomness. I had Luna write a number on a
      piece of paper, which I have only just now opened.” He paused
      briefly to read the number, and then continued. “And after this
      many seconds, I will ‘flip the switch’.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“You must be almost as bored as I am, and we all must amuse
      ourselves in our own way. I would ask why you do me this favor, but
      I assume you intend to ‘rehabilitate’ me. It would not be in my
      best interest to discourage you from thinking I am rehabilitatable,
      so I shall not.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Several minutes passed, in silence. Then, Lord Voldemort felt
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Ah.”</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle examined his new prison. It had been eight years
      since he had inhabited a corporeal body. He recognized this as the
      body of his youth, free from the modifications made necessary by
      his role as Voldemort. He was in a small study. There were no doors
      or windows. There were, however, bookcases. Every wall a bookcase,
      every bookcase stacked two layers deep with books. On the desk were
      two objects of note. Firstly, a pair of boxes which he recognized
      from his conversations with Harry as a computer. Secondly, a wand.
      His wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Despite knowing that he would have placed no traps or wards upon
      the wand, Tom was still cautious. He channeled a small flow of
      “Magic” through the wand. It felt different. Synthetic. Like a
      rubber glove. It would take some getting used to, but it was real,
      and it was functional.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cast his mind out, exploring the infinite that lay beyond
      physical barriers. There was only one true pathway that led away
      from this room. And it led to the other Box, a fuzzy morass of
      seething organic matter, all teeth and burrs and clouds and wisps
      of fat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cast his mind further, exploring the infinite that lie beyond
      the infinite. He saw all the possible pathways, all possible Boxes,
      all possible mistakes, all possible moments of weakness. He strode
      further out into nothing, passing by the most minute of
      possibilities, the coincidences and the bizarre. He strode further
      yet, into the deep nothing. Every so often he would encounter the
      barest of threads, the most impossibly impossible circumstances:
      atoms spontaneously degenerating in just the right ways to create
      just the right effects at just the right times. He briefly pondered
      the lives created and lost upon these distant threads, and then
      pondered no more.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He strode further yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The threads were limitless, Tom knew. Permutations could be
      stacked on top of permutations, and refactored in with the new
      results, ad infinitum. At a certain point, however, the threads
      grew faint enough and infrequent enough that they were formally
      indistinguishable from the nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stayed at this moment beyond Time, and pondered. He then
      strode further yet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He felt the exact moment when he emerged on the other side of
      Eternity, and after another infinity, he was back where he started:
      The single black thread of Time that stretched from the beginning
      of Tom Riddle to the End of All Things.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In an instant, he opened his eyes and snapped back to his
      reality, the only Reality that mattered. The reality that he and
      all things were Bound to.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">“Ah.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Voldemort’s box flickered with a brief shudder of red
      energy. He could sense that he was gone for less than an
      instant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I have not had much occasion in my life to say this, even more
      so now given my current predicament. But, I thank you, Harry
      Potter.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smiled, a true smile of grace. But it was only a moment
      before his trademark wry grin returned, “But it’s not completely
      altruistic.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“There’s no such thing, boy. Of course I understand your intent.
      Time flows differently there. It loops back upon itself. I was gone
      for an eternity. I returned in the fraction of an instant. Thus,
      you intend to put me to work. I am to create something, the nature
      of which you have not told me, which means that you will not tell
      me. I suppose somewhere on those shelves is a book designed to
      teach me to use that computer.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Correct. I am giving you a chance at your heart’s desire, to
      create what you have desperately wanted more than anything in the
      world.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another brief pause. Another brief flicker. “Someone intelligent
      to talk to.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In that instant, Tom Riddle was gone again.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry would have felt bad, offering up such blatantly false
      hope. But it was a victimless crime; in fact, it actually neatly
      tidied up a number of open problems. First and foremost, he was now
      free to permanently close the true Box of Orden, which he did as
      soon as he was certain the Professor was safely inside the
      replacement. From a utilitarian perspective, Harry needed to ensure
      that the Professor be occupied, kept interested, lest he start to
      make trouble in his restlessness. And from a humanitarian
      perspective, Harry wanted to ensure that the Professor was
      happy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In theory, a thousand monkeys hammering away at typewriters for
      an infinitely long period of time would eventually recreate the
      entire works of Shakespeare. And in theory, a singularly brilliant
      Dark Lord hammering away at a keyboard for an infinite period of
      time would eventually create a fully functional, friendly
      artificial general intelligence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the world didn’t work like that. In an infinitely long
      possibility space, there also exists a reference frame in which
      those same monkeys hammer away for an arbitrarily long length of
      time, functionally infinite, without ever recreating Shakespeare;
      there exists a reference frame in which the Alpha never reaches the
      Omega.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a period of time in which Harry had thought, perhaps
      even hoped, that the answer was as trivial as some sort of grand
      computer simulation, that some Atlantean server in some distant
      corner of the universe was responsible for the world in which he
      lived. But it didn’t make sense, because there was no answer to the
      fundamental question: Why?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why “Wingardium Leviosa”? Why Grindelwald? Why Voldemort? Why
      Walpurgisnacht, why Gotterdammerung? If you possessed the capacity
      for perfection, why would you deign to create an entire universe of
      flawed, imperfect people, still subject to the same laws of pain
      and death and hate and emptiness?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had crashed into Chesterton’s Fence often enough. If
      something was deliberately designed, and yet still entirely
      nonsensical, typically there was some underlying sense, some hidden
      piece of the puzzle that needed to be uncovered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But fortunately, Harry had from now until the End of Time to
      discover that piece of the puzzle. Until then, there was work to be
      done.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
