<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Orders of Magnitude - Orders of Magnitude, Chapter 27 – Infernal Galop</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Orders of Magnitude"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s30" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 27: Infernal Galop</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Almost There</em><br class="calibre4"/>
      <em class="calibre8">27999 AD</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry scratched idly at the walls of the spacecraft, staring
      intently at the Professor. He didn’t have much time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“What does it all add up to?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor replied immediately. “Can’t you guess?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Are you addressing me?” Harry fired back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Is there anyone else?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Who?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“How would I know?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Why do you ask?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Are you serious?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cocked his head. “Was that rhetoric?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor rolled his eyes, and spoke in curt condescension.
      “No.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry clapped his hands together with glee.  “Statement.
       Two all.  Game point.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Muttering under his breath, the Professor resumed the game.
      “What’s the matter with you today?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“When?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“What?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Are you deaf?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Am I dead?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Yes or no?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Is there a choice?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Is there a God?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor’s eyes narrowed. “Foul. No non-sequiturs.
      Three-two. One game all.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quickly launched into the next round, hoping to catch his
      foe off-guard. “What’s your name?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“What’s yours?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“You firs–”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped himself, but it was too late. The Professor
      interjected: “Statement.  One – Love.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Time to try again, perhaps a different angle. “What’s your name
      when you’re at home?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“What’s yours?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“When I’m at home?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Is it different at home?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“What home?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Haven’t you got one?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Why do you ask?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“What are you driving at?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“What… is… your… name?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor held up a hand. “Repetition.  Two – Love.
       Match point.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Who do you think you are?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the Professor’s turn to clap. “Rhetoric.  Game and
      match!”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Damnit.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Yes, damnit indeed. Even after all this time, I’m still one
      level above you.” He ran his fingers through his hair. His body,
      which Harry had allowed him, was biologically perfect, as if
      someone took Tom Riddle at age 40, allowed the eyes to reflect
      25,000 years worth of experience, give or take a few millennia, and
      gave him the fitness level of an 18-year old.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“We’re almost there, you know. You can feel us going faster,
      perceptually,” Harry observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Yes, that was always an open question, wasn’t it? What
      does it <em class="calibre8">feel</em> like? I am certainly eager to learn something
      new.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Outside the windows, the stars began to stretch slightly, rather
      than simply passing by.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“It’s strange. Abstractly, it seems like such an enormously long
      amount of time. I mean, think about how much happened and how much
      changed between my first year of Hogwarts, and the day we set foot
      onto this craft, how much I learned, how much you learned in that
      time. We’ve surpassed that by several orders of magnitude. You’d
      think we’d be gods by this point.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“No, you thought we’d be gods. My expectations, on the
      other hand, were tempered by my own time in exile.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Oh yeah. I forgot about that. I forget about a lot, now that I
      think about it.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Have you forgotten about them?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up, and spoke with firm resolution. “Never.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Even though you know full well what you intend to do to them,
      and to yourself?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry pressed his face against the window, and watched as the
      universe began to reorient itself as they flung headlong into the
      void. “It’s not like they’re dying. They’re just… changing. They’ll
      still be the same people, just…” Harry fumbled, dumbly for a word.
      “Different. Kind of like what I did to you when I conquered you for
      the first time.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor sighed, “Yes, yes, you never fail to miss an
      opportunity to remind me of that. But it is different. My memories
      were merely locked away. This would be a Sacrifice, and
      furthermore, we are seeing to it that the only means of restoring a
      Sacrifice is utterly obliterated.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Yes, but what enforces the rules of a Sacrifice?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor considered this for a moment. “Yes, I see your
      point. But, to continue that logic, this suggests that everything
      we are about to do is in vain, because it could all happen
      again.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned. “Yes, and that’s quite the point. Again, and
      again, and again.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most of the time, their planning went unspoken. If you looked
      back, they had spent the overwhelming majority of their
      perceptual lifespans sharing the same set of rather limited
      experiences, being confined to a small spacecraft for most of
      them. As a result, their thought patterns tended to be quite
      similar. When they felt the need to speak, it was typically to
      shine light on a more esoteric aspect of the plan, or weigh the
      benefits of two different courses of action. Even though either one
      could likely independently deduce the other’s thought processes,
      time wasted was still time wasted, regardless of how much time you
      had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Almost there, now.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The universe was fully curved by this point. On one side was the
      entirety of Everything, and on the other side was Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A thought occurred to the Professor. “Mr. Potter, would you care
      for some token gesture of comfort? A hand on the shoulder, or
      something along those lines?” Even now, The Professor had
      difficulty concealing the begrudged tone of his voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Yes, I would, actually,” Harry held out his hand, expectantly,
      “See how good it feels to be <em class="calibre8">nice</em>?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Professor sighed dramatically, and grasped Harry’s
      hand. Together, hand-in-hand, they watched as they passed the
      event horizon. The Universe was now falling away from them as they
      descended further into nothingness. Paradoxically, it was not
      blackness that they experienced. The point of light of the universe
      that grew further and further away also grew progressively brighter
      as they fell toward and away from the horizon.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As they hurtled towards that point of infinite brightness, Harry
      took the opportunity to point out that all of this would have been
      fundamentally impossible without Magic to help cheat things
      along.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I suppose you should enjoy it while it lasts.” He lifted his
      hand, which was still clasping Harry’s, slightly. “And this,
      too.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In complete defiance of Actual Physics, they reached the point
      they had intended, the Singularity, the center of the black hole at
      the center of our galaxy. Instead of being pulled apart with the
      force of a trillion trillion suns, they were simply engulfed by
      whiteness. Their spacecraft had incinerated a long time ago,
      perhaps infinitely long ago, but as expected, they still had the
      supplies they needed. Also as expected, their guest was waiting for
      them, curiously examining his surroundings.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore somehow looked both younger and older. His
      wrinkles were gone, his glasses were gone, his hair was auburn
      instead of gray, and yet he still managed to convey a sense of
      great age. Despite the fact that Harry had now lived hundreds of
      times longer than Dumbledore, he still could not help feeling like
      a child in the presence of his old Headmaster.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore tensed, startled, when he turned and saw Tom
      Riddle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“He cannot hurt you.” He spun around. Harry James
      Potter-Evans-Verres was walking towards him, sprightly and upright,
      wearing sweeping robes over a Muggle suit.  “Prophecy has
      proven true. I have come to rescue you, Headmaster.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Harry. You have… You have aged. How long has it been?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Oh, about 25,000 years, objectively. Subjectively? Well, for
      you, it’s been but a few seconds, has it not?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“It has, but I am trapped outside of Time. I would fear for you,
      but you are The Crux, the Once and Future King. You do not carry
      the look of sadness about you, which lightens my heart greatly.
      Dare I ask if you have succeeded? Did you tear apart the very stars
      in heaven to save its people?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Ah… Well…. Not quite.” Harry tittered on his feet a bit, “In
      fact, we’re not really out of the woods just yet.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I confess, I do not understand. But then again, that is more
      than fair turnabout. Would you do an old man the honor of
      explaining what I must do?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“You’re going to destroy the world.” Harry offered. Dumbledore
      raised an eyebrow, but Harry continued. “Right now, back on Earth,
      a different Earth, a gentleman who goes by the name of John Merlin
      thinks that he is about to save the world. You are going to ensure
      that he does not. In fact, you are going to ensure that he destroys
      the world.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded pleasantly, as if indulging an
      over-enthusiastic student’s explanations of Quidditch tactics.
      “Mmm, quite interesting. The same Merlin, I’m sure, of lore? Merlin
      of the Line, First of Atlantis?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Yes. Him, Headmaster. The Fall of Atlantis created our
      world, the world of Magic, and that world cannot be allowed to
      persist.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“That sounds counterproductive, does it not?” he asked
      innocently, without any hint of insolence or challenge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had expected this resistance. “Yes, it does. And I
      struggled with it myself, believe me. But I can explain it to you,
      and I will give you as much time as you need so that you can
      understand, and are satisfied.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I don’t think that’s necessary, Harry. I believe I
      grasp the broad strokes,” Dumbledore spoke casually, his light
      tone in complete contrast to the gravity of the situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was nonplussed. “I.. um. Okay?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Magic isn’t real.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded in satisfaction. Dumbledore understood that
      much. This was good, it would skip a large chunk of the
      explanation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster continued. “It’s as clear, plain, and obvious to
      anyone who bothers to consider the problem for longer than a few
      moments. Like the logic of a dream, Magic ‘just works’, does it
      not? In all other things natural, this is not the case. I have
      studied some of your physics, Harry, and I am quite fond of that
      Richard Feynman fellow. I have read enough to know that the true
      nature of reality is strange, bizarre, obtuse, and most
      importantly, operates based on principles that are in no way
      reflective of our expectations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Magic, on the other hand, is strange, bizarre, obtuse, but most
      importantly, operates precisely how we would expect it to. It does
      not seem likely to me that we as humans would have grown into
      this by <em class="calibre8">accident.</em> Thus, there is but one conclusion
      we can come to.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry’s brow furrowed. “We are in agreement, so far, Headmaster…
      But, I notice that I am confused. My conception of you is, well,
      forgive me for saying this, but I had never known you to be very
      scientifically-minded. In fact, I seem to recall you being quite
      dismissive of our Muggle arts.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Indeed, Harry. But Death approaches, and it is the sort of
      Death that even I would flee, screaming from. Not the death of the
      body, which I, as an old man, though not as old as you are now, had
      grown to accept, and you had chastised me for not a few short
      months ago.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had to mentally dissect that sentence to extract any
      meaning from it, and as he was doing so, Dumbledore continued. “No,
      I refer to the death of the soul. All souls. The horrible
      Nothingness at the end of everything. You know the end of which I
      speak.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry’s eyes were growing wide. He didn’t think Wizards knew or
      cared about such unimportant things as, oh, Heat Death.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Magic is famous for its opaqueness and requires little
      understanding, only skill. As long as the great minds of the world
      rely on Magic as a crutch, they will be paralyzed, crippled,
      limited and Bound, powerless to prevent the ever-encroaching
      darkness which not only will consume their world, but all
      worlds.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Magic can give us neither truth nor knowledge. It gives us
      nothing more or less than the deepest and most desperate desires of
      our hearts, and it does not do, Harry, to dwell on dreams and
      forget to live.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was dumbfounded. The Professor watched, amused, at his
      speechless protege, and Dumbledore let the silence hang heavy in
      the air for a few moments before he cheerfully offered, “Does that
      sound about right?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“It.. Yes, it does. How…” Harry started.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“How do I know this? My boy, I am still the Wise Old Man in your
      story, and it is the job of the Wise Old Man to surprise you in
      ways that you least expect. But enough about me. I want to hear
      from you. I want to hear why you have not despaired at this
      inevitable fate, why you have not resigned yourself to blackness,
      why you travelled to the end of time with nothing but hope to guide
      you.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry took a deep breath. He had been preparing for what seemed
      like an eternity for this. “Because, Headmaster, until the day that
      the last sentient being in this universe, in any universe, snuffs
      out of existence, there is still hope. As long as there exists
      someone, anyone who loves life enough to fight for it, they fight
      on behalf of all beings, human or otherwise, dead or alive.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“If I should die in that fight, it would be sad, yes. But it
      would not be the end, because someone, anyone would still fight to
      reclaim me from the depths of the void. I know that this is true
      because it is precisely what I would do. Preventing death is
      insufficient. I would not stop fighting until I could
      <em class="calibre8">reverse</em> death, until I restored every sentient being
      that ever lived a life that was taken from them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“As long as there are those who think as I do, who believe as
      strongly in the value of Life as I do, there will always be those
      who will fight on behalf of those who have fallen before them. As
      long as there are those who will fight against the darkness, there
      is hope. As I told you once before, Headmaster, there is light
      in the world, and it is us.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore smiled, a tear in his eye. “I used to wonder what
      would become of you. I am proud to have lived to see it.” He
      removed a delicate handkerchief from the pocket of his robes. “But
      look at me, I’m getting sentimental when we should be discussing
      your plan. Tell me more, my dear Harry.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a rather unceremonious end to Harry’s speech. In some dim
      part of his mind, he had expected something more. An applause,
      perhaps? At least he had earned a tear at the corner of his former
      Headmaster’s eye. “So, um… where were we?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I believe you were telling me that I would have to help this
      ‘Merlin’ in his quest to mistakenly destroy the world.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Ah, yes. So. Umm. After that, you’ll be able to harness the
      power of the cataclysm to escape from the forces keeping you here
      at the End of Time. You must travel to the moment that you hand the
      Stone over to Professor Quirrell, and you must sabotage it before
      you allow him to take ownership of it.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore raised an eyebrow, but Harry couldn’t help but feel
      it seemed rather perfunctory. “Sabotage? Sounds titillating. And
      then what shall I do?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was becoming unnerved by Dumbledore’s cavalier attitude.
      “Then you, well, you need to let him trap you again.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Mmm hmm, and then?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“And then you will be forced back here, to the End of Time.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore was nodding pleasantly again. “Oh dear. And what
      misadventures can I expect to follow?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry spoke haltingly, the realization slowly dawning on him.
      “And then you talk to us… Damn it!  You already knew all of
      this. You already knew all of this was going to happen. Because
      you’ve done it all before.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore did not reply, he simply folded his hands behind his
      back and beamed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“So you already know that you’re…”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“I’ll spare you from having to say it, my boy. Yes, I know.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry trod delicately, “How, um… how many times have you done
      this so far?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“The answer is that I do not know. I stopped counting around one
      hundred and seven.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At this, the Professor, who was busy reading a book on a bench
      nearby, laughed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Well… In that case, we have a final pair of gifts to give you,
      that I suspect you will greatly need.” Harry removed from his robes
      a thin stone rod, “The Line of Merlin Unbroken.” Harry handed the
      Headmaster the wand with reverence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tom Riddle stood up from the bench, put down his book, and
      strode forward. “And, Headmaster, my old enemy and future friend, I
      also have a gift for you.” He produced a thick glass bottle filled
      with viscous black ichor, and handed it to Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Headmaster,” Harry spoke, “You need to understand something.
      You have a choice at this moment. All worlds, ultimately, have
      narrowed down to this one choice. Although I am, as you say, the
      Crux, you still must make this choice of your own volition. You
      would be sacrificing your Life, and your Time. Truly.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Harry. You know my views on this matter. I have already
      sacrificed my Life and my Time for your sake, for the sake of the
      world. Besides, you are the Boy Who Lived. I’m sure you’ll find a
      way to rescue me again.” He smiled with a twinkle in his eye. “Now,
      how do I leave this place?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Oh yes,” Harry smiled at him. “We are in King’s Cross, are we
      not? I think that if you decided to move on, you would be able to…
      Let’s say.. Board a train.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“And where would it take me?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Beyond.” said Harry simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silence again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Goodbye, Headmaster. And thank you, truly.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Do not pity the dead, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres. Pity
      those who live without love.”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, he boarded a train, and disappeared into the
      tunnel. His world was all worlds. His world was fire. His world was
      void. His world was formless nothing. His world was stagnant death.
      He focused all his being onto the two worlds that mattered. In one,
      the star burned, rendering the world insane, its very soul raging
      with white plasma that rendered such abstract notions as space and
      time irrelevant in the face of the heat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked across the span of eons into the other world, wherein
      the Boy Who Lived was dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had all of eternity to rehearse the ritual, and yet, he still
      felt the slightest bit of nervousness. He began, using the Line of
      Merlin to harness the magic of all worlds into this one final act.
      He was Dumbledore, destroyer of worlds, creator of life. Everything
      that ever was and everything that ever will be in the universe had
      led him to this moment. This moment that must come to pass because
      it already has.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All worlds had narrowed to two, and from those two all worlds
      would be born. When the Line of Merlin could bear the strain no
      longer, it glowed white, and began to fray apart at the edges.
      Dumbledore could feel the eyes of prophecy in the heavens upon him,
      about to be torn apart by the ritual of Harry’s creation. The
      Headmaster connected the nodes in his mind, and it was done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Sagitarrius A* collapsed in less than a second. It folded in
      upon itself, and distorting the very fabric of reality as it did
      so. In the final moments of its life, the Headmaster flitted
      through some dimension that only exists in the minds of addled
      physics professors, and emerged to the place Beyond Time, where he
      was connected by the power of the ritual.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the world he left behind, a galaxy was born. A galaxy where
      the balance of the world was held in place by a single thread of
      time, a universe where the only means by which the Crux could
      succeed was to seek the path of the Scorpion and the Archer. The
      fires of prophecy would burn with the white light of truth; they
      had come to be because they had come to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He entered a world that was already born, a world where the
      balance of the world was held in place by a single thread of time
      that had, until now, been snipped. It was at this very moment that
      he emerged. He was outside the Mirror. No, he was inside? It was a
      curious sensation, experiencing time backwards. He took a brief
      moment to consider the runes that had once been incomprehensible to
      him. He smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Inside and outside the Mirror, the world was hazy, a confounded
      miasma of abstraction, like some sort of halfway lucid dream that
      someone had pressed the rewind button on. His brother took the
      stone from him. Not from him. From his shadowform. It was not him?
       He was talking to his brother. But it wasn’t him. He was
      saying the war was over. They had won. That was true, no? It was
      Time. Time to stop holding on to the stone. Give away the stone.
      Yes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You could change the past, you just had to think about it at the
      right time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As he moved further backwards in time, he considered the tools
      of his craft that he still had upon his person. The Line of Merlin.
      The Stone of Permanence. The Elder Wand. A curious glass
      bottle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A curious glass bottle of viscous black ichor.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Minutes later</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">“No,” said Albus Dumbledore. “No, no, NO! ”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Into the hand of the Albus Dumbledore flew from his sleeve his
      long, dark-grey wand, and in his other hand, as though from
      nowhere, appeared a short rod of dark stone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore threw these both violently aside, just as the
      building sense of power rose to an unbearable peak, and then
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then, there was nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He lay facedown, listening to the silence. He was perfectly
      alone. Nobody else was there. A long time later, or maybe no time
      at all, it came to him that he must exist, must be more than
      disembodied thought, because he had a sense of touch, and the thing
      against which he lay existed too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat up. His body appeared unscathed. He touched his face. He
      was not wearing glasses anymore. His beard was gone. As were the
      wrinkles.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus turned slowly on the spot, and his surroundings seemed to
      invent themselves before his eyes. A wide-open space, bright and
      clean. He was the only person there, except for–</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He recoiled. Not out of shock, but simply because he knew that
      he had recoiled and he knew that he <em class="calibre8">had</em> to recoil at the
      sight of Tom Riddle sitting on a bench, idly reading a
      curiously thick book. Albus Dumbledore smiled to himself.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
