<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Orders of Magnitude - Orders of Magnitude: Chapter 2 – The Goat and the Ram</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Orders of Magnitude"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: The Goat and the Ram</h1>
      <div class="calibre4">
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Earlier</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maksimillian Koschey watched the seconds tick by, as the world
      died around him. Even the end was unbearably anticlimactic.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I wonder how long I can wait before I truly die? That might
      be interesting. Then again…. Maybe something interesting is on the
      other side. Might as well give it a shot. After all, I can die
      whenever.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He requisitioned the necessary mass-energy, created a suitable
      vessel for himself, and bound it to one of the countless power
      crystals he had surreptitiously (and quite illegally) stowed away
      for himself. After all, he figured this day would come sooner or
      later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With but a flicker of his Will, the entirety of his being
      transmuted, and traversed all barriers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, Maksimillian Koschey awoke somewhere new.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Seconds later</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Adnan Nejem was roused, unceremoniously, from his game.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Shit. What a fucking waste of an hour. Almost there,
      too.</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">These kinds of power spikes were rare, but not unheard of. He
      started to reboot. While he waited, he glanced briefly over at his
      work terminal and–</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Shit shit shit shit shit shit shit shit shit shit shit shit
      shit</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He ripped the inputs out of his arms and temples, and with a
      swift kick, propelled himself in his rolling chair across the
      polished metal floor of his flat. It had to be a false positive.
      What he was seeing was just… “Impossible” doesn’t even really begin
      to cover it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A few quick keystrokes. Some regression analysis.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Shit.</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Adnan’s code was spaghetti. It always was. But it worked. It
      worked in ways that other people couldn’t fathom, which is what
      made Adnan so singularly valuable. But it all so made him a
      liability. He always told himself that he would eventually rewrite
      everything, make it extendable, add some documentation, all that
      stuff that he would get around to some day if only he weren’t too
      busy doing more important shit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, didn’t he feel stupid, now?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The system had begun to fail almost a full two minutes earlier.
      More specifically, his module had begun to fail almost a full two
      minutes earlier. The code was fine. It had to be. But, it was
      failing. And no one across the whole of Humanity was capable of
      troubleshooting it except for him. And he had waited an entire two
      minutes. It was over. Even if he had been there when it started, it
      still may have been over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was like a waterfall. Layers of failure, rippling, crashing
      against the rocks. The weight of it was heavy, too heavy to bear.
      His fault. It had to be. The system was inviolate. He was the weak
      link. Everyone dead, all his fault.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Adnan was already preparing. He looked at the various prototypes
      and experiments in his flat. No. It wouldn’t do. He needed to be
      anonymous; that ruled out the majority of his options. No, he
      wouldn’t be coming back from backup. It would be him, in the
      flesh.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hmmm… Options, options, options…</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His eyes stopped on Dinsdale. He had been experimenting with
      this particular variety of Chol for centuries. Fire was the
      constituent element, but that was just another kludge. It was so
      much easier to just complete the metaphor than to do the hard work
      of explicitly defining the connections: the Chol judged intent, and
      the fire purged and purified. Of course, Adnan wasn’t a monster:
      the fire didn’t do any lasting harm, it was just a means of
      transport.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked at the bird-like creature, perched on the thin glass
      shelf. As he stared into his creation’s eyes, he formed the
      question in his mind. Dinsdale looked back at him, and cocked its
      head, quizzically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">“Caw?”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Judgment was issued. And the conflagration began. A fiery
      menagerie stampeded into the room, purging and purifying, whipping
      around with angry lashes, surrounding Adnan and Dinsdale. He was
      being judged, and he had failed. The fire burned, and burned, and
      burned; it burned until there was nothing left of Adnan. The sound
      and the fury had ceased as quickly as it began.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The immolation was complete. And with that, all that was of
      Adnan Nejem had been burnt away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dinsdale idly pecked at his feathers, feeling a distant sense of
      loss. But for what? It couldn’t quite recall. It seemed so far, so
      far away. After all, time is the shortest distance between two
      places.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Seconds later</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Natalie Kyros was always amazed at the propensity for the
      religious to fold modern advances into their belief system rather
      than update their belief system to account for modern advances.
      But, people had always been that way, and trying to fight it was a
      fruitless endeavor. Many of her friends and colleagues had tried.
      For centuries. And they were perpetually frustrated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Natalie, on the other hand, had realized early on that some
      flaws in human cognition weren’t worth fixing; it was better and
      easier to simply use them to your advantage. That was how the
      central node of her network had come to take its current form: a
      three-meter tall cross, crafted of a metal that outwardly appeared
      to be iron.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The geometry was actually quite convenient for its intended
      purpose. It could have been a tesseract, but unfolding the cube
      before extending it into four-dimensional space had quite the same
      effect, but with a few advantages. The infrastructure was actually
      more modular and extensible, but that came with a few key drawbacks
      as well. Namely, it was also more corruptible.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She remembered her conversations with her colleague, Gus. They
      always argued with each other, but in a respectful way. There was
      an implicit understanding between them that having a constant
      Devil’s Advocate was exceedingly useful, despite being exceedingly
      frustrating. Their coworkers, of course, did not have this
      understanding, and simply wondered when they were going to get it
      over with and finally start dating.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Technically speaking, <b class="calibre7">every </b>structure is a
      four-dimensional structure</i>, he would always remind her. Which,
      sure, it’s true, from a certain point of view. But it’s an asinine
      point of view to take, because by that logic, every structure is an
      infinite-dimensional structure. <i class="calibre8">Yes, and that’s quite the point,
      isn’t it?</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had an obnoxious habit of being smug and cryptic like that.
      She never really had patience for the riddles though. The point was
      that the True Cross was deliberately extended, by conscious
      design. It was that conscious intent, in her mind, that truly gave
      weight to a structure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And it was with conscious intent that she incorporated several
      elements of the standard mythologies into her design, just to make
      it more palatable for the masses. If she only had more time, she
      could have come up with a suitable spin for the events unfolding
      around her. <i class="calibre8">Apocalypse. Revelation. Rapture.</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she had no time. Her followers would not be saved. Gus
      wouldn’t be saved. It was hard to tell which was more sad. No time
      to think though. Action. She spoke the phrase:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">‎”אברא כדברא”</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the Cross began to unfold itself in that unseen dimension,
      its physical form in this Time and Space diminished. The Cross was
      reducing itself to a point, a single, one-dimensional vertex:
      massless and volumeless. Natalie’s corporeal form was already gone,
      her Life and subsequent Death Burst both channeling through and
      powering the machination.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, Natalie Kyros and her True Cross were gone:
      nothing but myth and legend.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Seconds later<br class="calibre4"/></i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Christopher Chang stared at his reflection in his mirror. The
      mirror was the answer after the answer. Reaching eternity was one
      thing, but once you answered the Last Question, there was still one
      more: what next?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hadn’t completed it. Of course he hadn’t. How could he? The
      risk was so untenable that it did not even need to be articulated.
      The project itself was, in the parlance of the 21st century, “open
      source”. Anyone could build upon it, improve it, perfect it. Which
      of course, meant, that few did. Some things never changed. The
      producers of the world were far outnumbered by the consumers, in
      every facet of life.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which is why it had been so important to cultivate those less
      productive than oneself. Teach them to become producers. Of course,
      it didn’t matter now. Well, it wasn’t supposed to matter. But
      something was wrong. Something hadn’t worked. He could feel it,
      like some fundamental flaw in the generating function of the
      universe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was nothing that could be done, of course. This was John’s
      problem to fix. And he didn’t mean that in the defeatist sense: it
      was just a matter of pure logistics. Even if Christopher had been
      capable of affecting any sort of real change, he was full minutes
      away, and that was assuming he used the fastest possible
      transportation protocols.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, he stood in front of his Mirror, and allowed it to reflect
      his deepest, most profound volition. The image of Christopher and
      the classroom behind him vanished, and in its place, the Mirror
      displayed <i class="calibre8">Question</i>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He provided the answer. And with that, Christopher Chang was
      gone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The golden oval stood, inviolate, in this world, in all
      worlds.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Seconds later</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Constantine Atreides rushed manically around the lab. The
      anchoring rods were uniquely equipped to handle, channel, and
      redirect the absurd amount of power coursing through the system
      from the network of L.E. lines. Calling them “Low Energy” lines
      really was a bit of a misnomer. Certainly with the correct state of
      mind and the proper knowledge, one could access that energy without
      the aid of tools. But the whole point of Constantine’s rods was to
      harness the energy from something wild, dangerous and
      mind-bendingly powerful into something tame, usable, and above all,
      safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For a brief moment, Constantine thought that he might save the
      world. If he could force everything to channel through the cluster
      of rods, it could be dispersed safely. He’d have to direct it. He’d
      have to use it to create something. He’d make…</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Damn it.</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He never really was the creative type. He spend whole moments
      pondering, then realized his folly, and simply let his mind drift
      towards a random series of fractal patterns, maybe that would
      work?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It did not. Of course it did not. The rods required intent of
      some kind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if his mind was capable of containing a structure grand
      enough, complex enough, even if he had taken the time beforehand to
      plan all of his movements and thoughts to the microsecond, it
      simply would not have been enough. There was too much. But
      Constantine did not know this. The system was flitting through
      failure modes faster that he could keep track of them. He continued
      to look for an answer. No time, no time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Nat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Not enough time. He couldn’t save her. He couldn’t save anyone.
      What now? Save himself. Save himself. The one grand, complex
      structure his mind was capable of containing was, of course,
      itself. Clever self-referencing hacks wouldn’t cut it in this use
      case. Were he performing a simple transform, he would be fine;
      the mind would provide the Form ad-hoc as the Substance was being
      assembled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this was a clean write, which meant it had to be done in one
      fell swoop. That left no room for anything else. Unless… Yes, that
      actually would work. Before the operation, he sacrificed a small
      portion of who he was, of his being, kept in reserve to hold on to
      that one idea, that one hope, that one dream: her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, Constantine and his hope were gone.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Seconds later</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dexter Charles giggled. As the lead Seer, he was privy to
      secrets, knowledge, information. Oh yes, he was privy. Things that
      no one else knew. Things that no one else <i class="calibre8">could</i> know. Yes,
      of course he knew this day would come. All paths led to it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">All paths led to him, through him. He was the gate. Of course he
      was. He knew the gate, he was its key and guardian. Past, present,
      and future were one. His past, the world’s past, a fixed line. The
      present, a hot white point that encompassed this world and all
      worlds. And the future, a diffuse web of background noise for as
      far as the mind could fathom.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But of course, he knew what lay beyond that. He knew. Of course
      he knew. How could he not? Past, present and future were one. Even
      as the world died around him, he giggled as he watched the future
      loop back upon itself, over and over and over and over and over
      spiraling out and up and down and out and up and down and out of
      control until all that was left were two paths, and it all went
      through him, which was so silly, so sad, but so, so silly that he
      couldn’t help but giggle.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Needless to say, one of the occupational hazards of being a Seer
      is that it’s not exactly conducive to preserving one’s mental
      health. Dexter’s mind had been shredded by the enormity of what he
      was trying to encompass: he had walked down both paths, just to see
      how it all would end. But, what he saw could not be comprehended by
      a finite mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One path could not permit the finite.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other path could not permit the mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No matter. It didn’t matter, couldn’t matter. For all he knew,
      all paths led to him. Why wouldn’t they? He was the gate. So, he
      simply opened the gate, and exited the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, Dexter Charles entered the world.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Seconds later</i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Janus Tucker knew that this was the end. But he also knew that
      there was a loophole. There always were loopholes. The scales as a
      metaphor for justice had persisted from ancient times even to
      today. But it was done now, it served no further purpose. What use
      was Justice in a dead world? He reached into the metaphor, pondered
      for a moment, and removed the two cups from the scale.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As long as there were people, things, structures that obeyed the
      laws, in whatever form those laws would take, the metaphor would
      hold. Justice. Balance. It was written into the very fabric of
      Creation, it was the canvas on which the tale of the world was
      spun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The question now, was what to do… Ah, yes. He simply inserted
      himself into that fabric, into the tale. The will of the world was
      being Bound, regardless, regardless of his own actions. So why not
      Bind himself to it? Yes, it was a moment of darkness for the world.
      But it was said that the darkest hour of midnight came just before
      the dawn. And he would be there for that dawn, to see what we be
      born.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grasped the two cups, and smiled for a brief moment as he
      struck a suitably dramatic pose. If he was to be a God, he may as
      well play the part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, the tale of Janus Tucker was written.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><i class="calibre8">Seconds later<br class="calibre4"/></i></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Kayla Rahl examined the three boxes. There were only a few
      moments left, but she had designed the Box for this very purpose. A
      surprisingly effective failsafe. It was an exercise in pushing
      things to their limits. An arbitrarily large extendable space. An
      arbitrarily long connection. In this case, though, about 26,000
      light years sufficed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She knew when she created it that she could never open the Box.
      The very notion of her opening the Box was a paradox unto itself.
      And yet, here she was. That small fraction of her mind that did not
      exist, the part that would permit itself to open the Box, suddenly
      was there. Just popped into existence, five minutes prior.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She immediately felt it. And she immediately went to check on
      the Box. And that’s when she saw there were three. It was, in
      reality, a single Box. The Box in the present. The Box in the past.
      The Box in the future. Each was its own distinct physical entity.
      She had heard once that the cells in our bodies were completely
      replaced every seven years. It was nonsense, of course, that’s not
      how biology works. But even still, she was always fascinated by
      Theseus’ Ship. She suspected that is why the Box presented itself
      as three rather than one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, most importantly, she was able to open the Box. For eons,
      the very nature of the world prevented the Box from ever being
      opened. But it had changed, everything had changed. This meant only
      one thing; the world had already passed its own event horizon. The
      world was already going Beyond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which meant there was no harm in going Beyond along with it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So she willed the Box open. The three aspects obliged, unfolding
      themselves. Kayla gazed into the gaping maw of the Beyond, and
      entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Once she was truly locked Beyond, the boxes snapped shut.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, Kayla Rahl and the world were gone.</p>
      <hr class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">And with that, the new world was born.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The world unfolded, like a fully grown adult emerging from the
      womb. The new Gods of the new world emerged, as well, shaking off
      the afterbirth, their eyes sensitive to the intense, penetrating
      waves of this new sun.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Each knew there were others, for they each knew that they were
      not the oldest, or the cleverest, or the most knowledgeable. And if
      they were able to do it, someone older, someone cleverer, someone
      more knowledgeable would have been able to do it too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But at the end of it all, someone had to be the best, the
      oldest, the cleverest, the most knowledgeable, and that person,
      whoever he or she was, would be a God amongst Gods.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
