<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 90: Updating Beliefs, Pt 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s10" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 90: Updating Beliefs, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">There was one flaw with the plan to wait until the Easter
      Holidays before trying to expose Quirrell. One glaringly obvious
      flaw that Harry really should have thought about last night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no getting around facing Quirrell today.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Friday, April 10th, of 1992, and Harry was sitting in the
      last session of the day. Defense Against the Dark Arts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He <em class="calibre8">had</em> considered contriving a sickness. McGonagall
      would probably even help him, if he pointed out the likelihood of
      the Defense Professor taking one look at him and deriving
      everything Harry was thinking of without even using Legilimency. Or
      Professor Snape could have arranged a Potions accident that would
      require him to be sent off to St Mungo's. However, none of those
      things were very <em class="calibre8">likely</em> for a student who'd been in
      apparently perfect health yesterday and brewing nothing more
      exciting than a <em class="calibre8">potion of cold resistance</em>, so if he
      <em class="calibre8">did</em> get incapacitated, Quirrell might derive what it meant
      anyway. Besides, it would take some fairly serious harm to stop
      Quirrell from visiting him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, instead, he had spent most of Potions class thinking about
      other plausible excuses why he would not want to talk to Quirrell
      about what had happened to Hermione. There were some surprisingly
      good reasons, he had realized, which he really ought to have
      figured out even without a motive to hide his real thoughts from
      the Defense Professor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the end of class, just as Harry had expected, Quirrell held
      him back, and told him to follow him to his office. As he trailed
      after the Defense Professor, Harry cleared his mind and, like an
      Occlumency barrier, turned into a version of Harry who hadn't had
      yesterday's disturbing conversation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door closed behind them with a soft <em class="calibre8">click</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was rather put out when I heard about Monday's trial, Mr.
      Potter," the Defense Professor spoke in an icy voice, once he had
      cast all the usual privacy charms. "It appears that you have still
      not learned how to lose."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am well aware that what I did was stupid," Harry said coldly.
      "But losing is for <em class="calibre8">points</em>, not <em class="calibre8">people</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell slammed his hand down hard on his desk.
      "<em class="calibre8">Pretending</em> to lose is for everything! You should have
      gritted your teeth and acted upset, while outwardly resigning
      yourself to the situation. <em class="calibre8">Then</em> you could have made
      arrangements to retrieve Granger <em class="calibre8">afterwards</em>, perhaps even
      before she was brought to Azkaban! Instead, you drew attention to
      yourself in the worst possible way. You threw away all semblance of
      maturity by positing your ridiculous threat against House Malfoy,
      casually destroying your reputation by showing yourself as a
      deluded child with an over-inflated ego. And besides that, you did
      immeasurable harm to yourself by causing Lord Malfoy to lose his
      fear of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded silent agreement. Not being a <em class="calibre8">complete</em>
      idiot, he'd eventually worked out who Lucius Malfoy had thought he
      was talking to in front of the Wizengamot. And the Dark Lord
      Voldemort would certainly never promise his enmity in a deadly
      voice, he'd just say something that would <em class="calibre8">actually</em> feel
      like a threat to Lucius – without even being understandable to
      other people in the room, as Voldemort presumably knew some things
      about Lucius most people didn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre8">then</em>," Quirrell bitterly continued. "When your
      halfway decent plan failed, did you attempt to negotiate, or
      execute a maneuver that could win the respect of Britain's
      powerful? No, you made an insane threat. What would you have done
      if you had actually been required to execute it? Murder the
      majority of the largest political body of Britain? Do you honestly
      expect that you would have been allowed to live, following such an
      act? Any in that room, save perhaps for Miss Granger herself, would
      have killed you afterwards. You are but a mere child, and for all
      your machinations you do not have the power to defend yourself from
      those who wish you ill, once your allies have cause to abandon
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know," Harry murmured. Mostly, he remembered those dark
      moments in the ancient halls of the Wizengamot in terms of shame,
      but he hadn't been able to stop himself from considering what would
      have happened if Hermione <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em> spoken up. None of the
      likely outcomes were good. There were some <em class="calibre8">very good
      reasons</em> why his dark side had moved on to alternative
      ideas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defense Professor sat down, still glaring angrily at Harry.
      "And now, here we are. Unless you play your hand remarkably well,
      it is likely going to follow you for the rest of your life. If
      Granger escapes from Azkaban, they will suspect you because you
      drew attention to yourself, so that line is closed to you. If
      your... ah... <em class="calibre8">proclivity</em> with Dementors ever becomes
      public knowledge, they will understand that you were serious, and
      those who believe themselves to be pure of heart will never
      willingly follow you anymore. How will you lead Magical Britain
      then? Or would you prefer never to show that particular prowess,
      and allow the world to continue believing that you are a fool? Your
      youth might give you some excuse, but once you establish yourself
      in power even your earliest endeavors will be subject to public
      scrutiny. All for your lack of sense and unwillingness to think
      beyond the moment!" His eyes flashed, as he gestured for Harry to
      sit down as well. "Have you at least given some thought on how you
      will deal with the consequences of your stupidity?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No.</em> He'd been thinking of other things, such as
      phoenixes, taking down Azkaban, Who-Framed-Hermione-Granger and
      How-To-Free-Hermione-Granger. Even if he <em class="calibre8">had</em> thought about
      it (which he probably should have), Harry wasn't quite sure that he
      <em class="calibre8">wanted</em> to lead Magical Britain. But Quirrell obviously
      didn't want to hear about that. "I could make it seem like I was
      trying to get everyone to write me off as a stupid kid, so they
      won't see it coming when I strike?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell waved a hand irritably. "That won't work. It
      <em class="calibre8">might</em> be effective for those who are playing the game on
      level three and model you as a level two player, but to
      <em class="calibre8">most</em> people it will sound like little more than an excuse.
      Besides, the claim will be unmasked for its dishonesty the instant
      your variation of the Patronus Charm is discovered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Point taken. So what would you suggest I do, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defense Professor fixed him with a glare. "I am not sure you
      <em class="calibre8">deserve</em> my advice, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged. He honestly didn't care much at this point. The
      Defense Professor raised his eyebrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre8">will</em> care, Mr. Potter, when these events come back
      to hurt you." He poured two cups of tea, and pushed one towards
      Harry, giving him a long, hard look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will say that your bluff was for the Headmaster," he said
      quietly. "He was aware of your abilities and might have been
      sufficiently alarmed at you considering such a step that he would
      allow you to spend your money as you desired. It will be your
      responsibility to procure the Headmaster's cooperation with such an
      explanation, but since he defended your actions before the
      Wizengamot, I suspect it will not be hard." He took a sip.
      "Naturally, there are some who will wonder what you would have done
      if he had called your bluff. The answer is that you would indeed
      have canceled the Patronuses to prove your point, conjured your own
      in protection of the Lords and Ladies, and then used that position
      to bargain with Dumbledore – or indeed, with Lord Malfoy, as he
      might have been more willing to see your point of view when it was
      only your Patronus standing between him and a Dementor. You will be
      expected to demonstrate your Patronus-destroying ability, of
      course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">That might be a little troublesome,</em> Harry thought. But
      perhaps if he gave the idea some further thought it could be made
      to work. Maybe once he and his army of True Patronus Casters had
      eliminated all Dementors in the world, it would be safe to give
      this explanation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," the Defense Professor continued, "anyone with a
      modicum of intelligence will see all the glaring flaws in such a
      plan. However, taking into account that you <em class="calibre8">are</em> a
      first-year child, it may be perceived as an acceptable error of
      judgment, and fall into obscurity amidst your more successful
      accomplishments, once you achieve greatness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The words felt oddly foreboding, and yet the voice was nothing
      but resigned. Perhaps it was no more than Harry's private worries
      about the man's motives, but still...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Harry said quietly. "I'll think about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell nodded shortly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That being settled –" the voice turned into ice again "– I must
      say I am surprised at you. I would have expected you to come to me
      for advice the instant I was released. Can I conclude that you
      suspect me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well yes. That was the only reasonable conclusion for that
      particular observation. Harry <em class="calibre8">had</em>, in fact, been waiting
      to pounce on his mentor the moment he returned. Would have done so
      instantly on seeing him at dinner yesterday, to hell with his
      meeting with Dumbledore, if he hadn't known about Hermione's
      relative safety. He could afford a little more delay than he had
      initially planned because the Aurors seemed to be protecting her –
      not that he wanted the Defense Professor to know about that quite
      yet – but even taking this into account, there was no conceivable
      reason why he wouldn't have begged Quirrell's help the first
      available instant, unless he <em class="calibre8">strongly</em> suspected the man's
      involvement. Since he hadn't done that yesterday evening, the only
      safe answer Harry had was to adequately justify his suspicion in a
      way that wouldn't interfere with whatever Moody and Dumbledore were
      planning, or give anything away about Hermione. And that,
      preferably, without alienating his mentor, because he
      <em class="calibre8">would</em> still really like his advice on the situation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, so you <em class="calibre8">do</em> believe she is innocent, then?" bit a
      version of Harry who had agonized for four days over Hermione's
      fate, and come to some rather disturbing conclusions.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not hold me for an idiot, Mr Potter," Quirrell said sharply.
      "This murder was well-planned to evade detection both by the wards
      of Hogwarts and the Headmaster's timely eye – or indeed, by any
      Defense that could reasonably be expected from the Headmaster, a
      rather convenient situation. Naturally, in such a thoughtful
      murder, some innocent would be placed to take the blame." A brief,
      wry smile crossed the Defense Professor's lips. "Besides, I
      consider myself a talented teacher, but even I could not teach such
      murderous intent to a student as obstinate and untalented as
      Hermione Granger."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You suspect the Headmaster?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is the obvious suspect, more so even than you might realize.
      There is an important gathering of the International Confederation
      of Wizards, next week. The representatives of the magical
      governments around Europe will come together to pass treaties and
      international laws for the next ten years. It would be the perfect
      time for Lucius to be torn by grief, and certainly a good time to
      throw away his game against Dumbledore for the sake of revenge.
      Besides, if Draco had not survived to testify, the investigation
      would surely have taken significantly longer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But eventually, it would still have led to Hermione taking the
      blame," Harry said. "I admit I also came to the conclusion that
      Dumbledore had a strong motive. But for all that I have seen of
      him, I find it difficult to believe that he would plot to send any
      Hogwarts student to Azkaban. Ever."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," the Defense Professor said softly. "But the <em class="calibre8">only</em>
      way Dumbledore could escape unscathed from a student dying during
      his reign as Headmaster, is if the death was truly unexpected and
      unpreventable by reasonable means. Murder by another student is one
      of the very few ways that would accomplish this. And if he must, in
      a sufficiently noble cause, sacrifice a student – why, who would he
      choose, but she who declared herself a heroine?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That gave Harry some pause. It might just be hindsight bias, but
      that <em class="calibre8">did</em> seem to concentrate some of that hypothesis's
      probability mass onto framing Hermione in particular. Similarly,
      Professor Quirrell <em class="calibre8">had</em> predicted in advance that
      Dumbledore might target Draco...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But if it's you behind all of this, Professor, you might
      have shaped your plans to frame the Headmaster, and taken care to
      cast suspicion on him in advance.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The concept of 'evidence' had something of a different meaning,
      when you were dealing with someone who had declared themselves to
      play the game at 'one level higher than you'.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are an obvious suspect too," Harry replied. "As Professor
      Snape pointed out yesterday, the Defense Professor always is. The
      wards did not give alarm, which points to staff involvement, and
      the method by which Draco was attacked suggests a substantial
      amount of cunning, especially since the perpetrator would have
      needed to select a method that could conceivably have been
      transparent to a child reading <em class="calibre8">Hogwarts: a History</em>. You
      are powerful enough to have pulled off those Memory Charms, and
      skilled enough to cover up potential incriminating evidence. I do
      not know what exact motives you might have had, but you play the
      game on a sufficiently high level that this is only to be
      expected."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I cannot be offended, as your reasons are sound," the
      Defense Professor said with a sip of his tea. "But you normally
      would not let vague suspicions stop you, and I am hardly the only
      one with the skills and opportunity to accomplish this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," Harry started. "I figured that it was obvious that you
      didn't <em class="calibre8">want</em> to save Hermione. If you did, you would
      have."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is an intriguing idea. How do you imagine I would have
      achieved that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't go to the trial, for a start. I know you were being
      detained, but you were a <em class="calibre8">witness</em>, having put extra
      protection on Draco beforehand. You could have persuaded Bones to
      let you go. If you had gone there and told them what you obviously
      knew, that Hermione was innocent –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then it would not have made the slightest difference," Quirrell
      said dryly. "You have seen the idiocy of people, Potter, do you
      truly believe they will listen to <em class="calibre8">sense</em>? In truth, I
      considered it probable that she would not lightly be sent to
      Azkaban, because she is so young. Drawing attention away from her
      youth and on to a tale of innocence they would not believe would
      <em class="calibre8">hardly</em> be helpful. Even Headmaster Dumbledore understood
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you could have gone there, and reacted on what actually
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> happening, rather than on what you <em class="calibre8">expected
      beforehand</em>. I went there without a plan, and if not for
      Dumbledore's interference, I could have saved her using Lucius's
      life debt."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A plan you could have come up with beforehand, without first
      making an embarrassment of yourself." He smiled dryly. "I do not
      think the DMLE would have let me go for the pure sake of
      <em class="calibre8">witnessing</em> the trial. If I went there, I would be expected
      to <em class="calibre8">speak</em>. Which, as I said, would not have been helpful.
      Even with the advantage of hindsight, I doubt that I could have
      done much good, other than perhaps clout you over the head before
      you could go on to make the <em class="calibre8">idiotic</em> threats you did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You could have asked to speak to Malfoy <em class="calibre8">beforehand</em>. He
      hates Dumbledore more than Hermione, if you explained your theory
      about Dumbledore's motives to him, he might have agreed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would involve telling him about your slipping up and
      mentioning his promise to Dumbledore. A mistake, I daresay, you
      would hardly want him to know about. Nor would it have changed
      much. Lord Malfoy has no advantage to gain in going after
      Dumbledore, who could just deny his involvement. He would not
      cancel the trial. Even if he truly did not believe that Miss
      Granger was guilty, he would seek her destruction regardless, for
      the humiliation she brought to his House on Saturday. Besides, he
      is hardly beyond suspicion himself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You think Lucius Malfoy would have tried to kill his own
      son?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why not? From Mr. Malfoy's recorded testimony, I gather that
      you enjoyed some success in changing young Mr. Malfoy's political
      views. If Lucius Malfoy learned of that earlier... he might have
      decided that his <em class="calibre8">former</em> heir had become a liability."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padma came up with a similar theory," Harry said. "But I don't
      buy it. Draco is entirely convinced that his father loves him, and
      there is plenty of evidence pointing in that direction too.
      Besides, if Lucius set up the whole thing himself, then why did he
      decline Dumbledore's offer of coming to an agreement about
      Hermione? Why did he ask an insanely high price to dispense with
      the blood debt, when he could have known Dumbledore would not let
      me pay it? He wouldn't actually care that much about throwing
      Hermione into Azkaban, and he could have gained a large political
      advantage and got rid of the debt he holds to House Potter, by
      bargaining to have her wand snapped instead. And that
      <em class="calibre8">would</em> be sufficient revenge for a mere humiliation,
      especially with Draco's testimony under Veritaserum that he only
      lost because he was tired."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Quirrell said ponderously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Getting back to the point," Harry went on. "There's also the
      matter of you saving Draco. That was a life debt, right there. And
      Malfoy couldn't have said that you created the circumstances
      deliberately, not without casting doubt on Hermione's testimony. If
      we'd both claimed a life debt <em class="calibre8">together</em> and asked for
      Hermione's life..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Life debts are not <em class="calibre8">personal</em>, Potter. You can have a
      life debt to a Noble House, but not to a commoner."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you <em class="calibre8">are</em> noble, aren't you?" He might as well use
      the conversation as a good excuse for polling the man about
      Monroe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell carefully put down his tea. "Amelia mentioned those
      suspicions to me. I see that she has also spoken to others. Who
      else is aware of this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry didn't respond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defense Professor stood up to face the fireplace, turning
      his eyes away from Harry. When he spoke again, his voice was less
      sharp, and more bitter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know the one she was speaking of, of course. David Monroe.
      The kind of hero anyone would recognize from fairy tales, wielding
      justice and vengeance like twin wands against his personal nemesis,
      a Dark Lord who was a threat to far more than just himself."
      Professor Quirrell gave a soft, bitter laugh. "Do you know, at that
      time I thought myself already cynical, and yet... well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The silence stretched, as Harry listened intently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In all honesty," said Professor Quirrell, continuing to stare
      at the fire, "I still don't understand it. They should have known
      that their lives depended on Monroe's success. And yet it was as if
      they tried to do everything they could to make his life
      <em class="calibre8">unpleasant</em>. To throw every possible obstacle in his way. I
      was not naive, Mr. Potter, I wouldn't have expected the
      power-holders to align themselves with him so quickly – not without
      something in it for themselves. But their power, too, was
      threatened; and so I was shocked how they seemed content to step
      back, and leave all burdens of responsibility to him. They sneered
      at their benefactor's performance, remarking among themselves how
      they would do better in his place, though they did not condescend
      to step forward." Professor Quirrell shook his head as though in
      bemusement. "And it was the strangest thing – those who served the
      Dark Lord leaped eagerly to <em class="calibre8">their</em> tasks, and as he grew
      crueler toward his followers, they followed him all the more. Men
      fought for the chance to serve <em class="calibre8">him</em>, even as those whose
      lives depended on Monroe made free to render his life difficult...
      I could not understand it, Mr. Potter." Professor Quirrell's face
      was lit up by the flickering of the flames, giving an eerie
      impression. "Perhaps, by taking on himself the curse of action, he
      removed it from all others? Was that why they felt free to hinder
      his battle against the Dark Wizard who would have enslaved them
      all? Believing men would act in their own interest was not
      cynicism, it turned out, but sheerest optimism; in reality men do
      not meet so high a standard. Monroe, I daresay, would have been
      better off fighting his enemy alone, than with such followers at
      his back. And perhaps, in time, that is exactly what he did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Harry said, his mouth dry. It was taking a lot of
      effort to keep pretending to be a Harry who didn't suspect
      anything. If the Defense Professor had indeed been both at the same
      time... he'd just explained why he would have retired Monroe, and
      continued with Lord Voldemort.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But alternatively</em>, the voice of Ravenclaw said in his
      head, <em class="calibre8">it might also explain why an intelligent Voldemort did
      not succeed, with an even more intelligent Monroe working against
      him behind the scenes.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot say what happened to that man," Quirrell said, turning
      around, and stepping back to his chair. His hand was quivering
      slightly, as it often did. "But I daresay that if, hypothetically,
      he and I were the same person, I would have some <em class="calibre8">very good
      reasons</em> for not wanting this identity to be discovered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good enough to let Hermione Granger be eaten by Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you want to put it like that, Mr. Potter, yes. She honestly
      doesn't mean that much to me." The Defense Professor sat down
      again. "I do regret the girl's situation. She was a good student in
      my Defense class, and could have been a valuable ally to you later.
      But in truth, even if I had claimed to be this noble scion, it
      would not have helped her much. We cannot <em class="calibre8">both</em> claim the
      same price for our debt, that is now how the law works."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be that as it may..." Harry whispered. "But all this sounds
      more like <em class="calibre8">excuses</em>, not <em class="calibre8">reasons</em>, for not making
      <em class="calibre8">any sort of actual effort</em> to save her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defense Professor smiled. "Why yes, you are quite correct. I
      chose not to act on half-hearted plans that might have backfired
      and would have definitely drawn attention to myself, when there was
      an obvious way to help the girl without any downsides."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There was?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is. Surely you realize that Miss Granger is not
      <em class="calibre8">dead</em> yet. If we act quickly, there will still be something
      left to save. Even supposing she has already stopped eating and
      drinking, it would take at least two weeks to die in Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed at the mental image. He didn't want to tell
      Quirrell that Hermione <em class="calibre8">was</em> already mostly safe, because
      that safety was <em class="calibre8">precarious</em>, and if it <em class="calibre8">was</em>
      Quirrell behind the attack, it would be trivial to send a note to
      the DMLE or to Lucius Malfoy. "What did you have in mind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a blur, the form of the Professor turned into the
      blue-and-white banded snake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Musst create debt,</em>" the snake hissed. "<em class="calibre8">Real debt.
      Ssave lord'ss life deliberately. Ssay it iss for sson's ssake. Then
      assk for girl'ss freedom in exchange.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Ssave life from what?</em>" Harry hissed back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Hiss old masster,</em>" the snake suggested. "<em class="calibre8">Meeting
      next week. Sset up imposstor ass hiss masster. Bringss woman.
      Claimss power over World. Cassts no-apparation sspell. Ssayss your
      enemy is bad sservant. Torturess him. Then casstss Killing Cursse.
      You interfere.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Don't like torture! And lotss of other flawss...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Torture iss only brief, and he desservess it. Bessidess,
      needed to keep ambiguouss whether he sserved Dark Wizard willingly,
      and you don't want him ssent to prisson, no? No real flawss. Have
      thought thiss through.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What if ssomeone cassts Killing Cursse on Dark Wizard? And
      how do I get there? What if ssaving goes wrong? What if
      not?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I am no fool, boy! Choosse time when sschoolmasster absent.
      Imposstor hass device to move around quickly. Cannot be targeted
      eassily. Woman too. I will bring you there. Will ssay I wass
      alerted. Took you back in time. You walk in, with guardian Charm.
      Protect lord, for hiss sson. I will be there, pussh lord away if it
      failss. But unlikely.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Time device iss ssecret,</em>" Harry hissed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Not your problem! Ssituation iss important enough to
      warrant exception. They will think of ssome excusse.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">And then what?</em>" Despite himself, Harry was intrigued
      by the plan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">You quickly recasst guardian Charm. Dark wizard targetss
      random bysstander. You ssend guardian to them, sso are unprotected.
      Dark wizard no fool. He ussess deadly area charm on you. Too
      sstrong for your sshields, too broad to dodge. You resspond with
      sstunning charm.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sstunning? Would not even get passt his sshields!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Dark Wizard never had sshields. Too powerful to need them.
      But not the point. You musst</em> catch <em class="calibre8">hiss sspell. I have
      dark wizard'ss wand, woman ssaid where sshe hid it. You ssaid
      before that your wand sshares coress with dark wizard'ss. I
      sstudied this... If sspellss meet</em> <em class="calibre8">– sspectacular effect.
      You sstop him from cassting or moving. You usse Muggle explossive
      device. Large blasst. He diess. Of coursse, he really ssurvives.
      Can dissapear in blasst.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a lot to take in. Hell, it would be a <em class="calibre8">huge</em>
      operation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Would ssurely take too long to sset up?</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Preparationss already in place."</em> There was a content
      sort of feeling in that hiss. <em class="calibre8">"I told you sso before. I
      expected you to losse patience with imprissonment ssoon enough.
      Plan will give you freedom. And power. You will be ssavior."</em>
      The snaked hissed a strange sort of snake-chuckle. <em class="calibre8">"Sso only
      needed a few adaptationss. Can execute in three dayss if needed.
      Sspend time practissing sspell capture and blocking Killing
      Cursse."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Musst think...</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Creating a real debt from Lucius to him would be a good
      solution, at least if there was no way he could be suspected of
      having engineered the whole thing. It would be better than giving
      money to a man who was guaranteed to use at least part of it in
      ways Harry did not approve of, certainly better than negotiating a
      lower punishment for Hermione, and probably more feasible than
      proving her innocence. It was just that it would be <em class="calibre8">really
      bloody dangerous</em>, ethically questionable, and would have some
      side effects regarding the public's expectations with respect to
      Voldemort. It was almost certain that Quirrell had his own ulterior
      motives with this plan, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Why usse masster, not ssome other threat? Sseemss
      far-fetched. Ssurely other planss would be eassier?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake made a strange movement, that might perhaps be
      interpreted as the serpentine version of a shrug. <em class="calibre8">"Ass ssaid,
      preparationss already in place. Therefore quicker than other
      planss. But ssmall adaptationss posssible. Maybe just have woman
      and other sservant attack? Less threatening, and will raisse
      different expectationss, but could work, if you prefer. Could leave
      ambiguouss whether their masster iss involved, although they musst
      have hiss wand. Less perfect, but perhapss... Explanationss can be
      changed, if necesssary, just not overall plan. <em class="calibre8">We have little
      time, before girl goess inssane. And meeting iss perfect
      moment.</em>"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some part of Harry admired the way the Defense Professor pushed
      him into a corner. The Professor probably didn't know that there
      was a way Harry could have helped Hermione without breaking her
      out, something McGonagall or Dumbledore would never have agreed to
      – he <em class="calibre8">might</em> have derived that the cloak had shielded
      Bellatrix from the Dementors while he was unconscious, but he
      wouldn't know <em class="calibre8">why</em>, and it was a further leap to assume
      that it would work even without Harry's presence. And if Hermione
      was actually in real trouble in Azkaban, suffering constantly,
      getting closer to death each passing day... then he would have done
      it. Even taking into account the torturing and the risks inherent
      in the plan, even if he suspected that the Defense Professor might
      have set up this scenario just to persuade him to go along with the
      plan...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But if he has, then what is his motive?</em> asked
      Slytherin. <em class="calibre8">He seems to be willing to write Voldemort out of the
      plot, so it cannot be to persuade Dumbledore that Voldemort is gone
      or returned. So what would be achieved by following this plan</em>
      besides <em class="calibre8">creating a debt to Lucius Malfoy?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It would allow us to make up with the Malfoy family,</em>
      Ravenclaw promptly volunteered. <em class="calibre8">At least Draco would appreciate
      his father being saved. Also, it would put us in the spotlight as a
      miracle worker who can defeat dark wizards with</em> vastly
      <em class="calibre8">more power.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But how is that helping</em> him<em class="calibre8">?</em> Slytherin shot
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He seems to want to make us powerful...</em> Ravenclaw
      supplied thoughtfully. <em class="calibre8">To what purpose, I don't know. But that
      fits the explanation that he broke out Bellatrix Black to get us
      access to Slytherin's lost magic.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Of which he would profit, too,</em> Slytherin pointed out.
      <em class="calibre8">But I agree that his overall actions and statements seem
      consistent with his wanting to make us more powerful.</em>
      <em class="calibre8">Should we do it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What?</em> Gryffindor and Hufflepuff yelled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Hear me out. Increasing our popularity and political sway is
      highly desirable, and might help to set plans in motion to clear up
      the messes in government, like Azkaban. Lucius was a Death Eater,
      and has certainly contributed to torture and murder, not to mention
      sending a child to Azkaban just this week – a short round of
      torture is arguably a fair punishment, or rather, far less than he
      deserves, since it is unlikely that he will ever be sentenced for
      his crimes. And it</em> will <em class="calibre8">help Hermione.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The plan is risky, though,</em> Ravenclaw pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">More risky than leaving Hermione in Azkaban, where any
      number of circumstances could cause a thorough search of her cell,
      and the discovery that she has a wand and invisibility cloak?</em>
      Slytherin asked. <em class="calibre8">Once</em> <em class="calibre8">that happens,</em> we <em class="calibre8">might
      not get into too much trouble, but at the very minimum Hermione
      will no longer be protected. So right now, not acting is also
      dangerous.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">There have to be other ways of getting her out,</em>
      Gryffindor protested. <em class="calibre8">Ways that do not require deceit.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Like what?</em> Slytherin asked simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry swallowed. Even if the Defense Professor had set the
      entire thing up to push him into a corner, could he afford to
      refuse it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What if this is the only way to save Hermione?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't know. The idea was starting to seem a lot more
      appealing, if he could tweak it here and there. But he also had a
      nagging feeling that – despite the plan's lack of murder – Hermione
      would probably have told him not to go to such lengths to save
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"</em>You hessitate," the snake concluded as the silence
      stretched. <em class="calibre8">"</em>Why? Plan ssolid. Can explain in more detail
      if wissh. Had four dayss in cusstody to think about ssmallesst
      detailss."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Need more time,"</em> Harry stalled. <em class="calibre8">"Many thingss to
      conssider! Can I ssleep on thiss?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The snake shook. <em class="calibre8">"Musst know tonight, to sset everything in
      motion. If we wait a day, we cannot do the plan for another day.
      Iss that worth it?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. <em class="calibre8">"Tonight after dinner?"</em> Dinner would
      start in less than an hour, but he would still have six Time-Turned
      hours to think.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"That sshould be acceptable,"</em> the snake hissed, and
      turned back into Professor Quirrell.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In hindsight, Harry would remember that he should have just
      left. Think over the plan, like he said he would do, and return
      after dinner. He certainly should not have decided that he needed
      more information about two of yesterday's open questions to make an
      informed decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Dumbledore and the others think You-Know-Who did this," Harry
      volunteered. "I am not so convinced, but it seems... relevant." He
      didn't say more, of course. If anyone was managing to listen in,
      they didn't need to know what had passed between him and the
      snake.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Dark Lord?" Quirrell raised an eyebrow. "What motive would
      <em class="calibre8">he</em> have?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Headmaster thinks that he sees me as his enemy, and is
      striking at my allies before they grow strong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does he? And did it occur to him to wonder why an enemy of
      yours would use the Granger girl to kill <em class="calibre8">Malfoy</em>, and not
      just <em class="calibre8">you</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I don't think it did," Harry shrugged. "But even if it is
      unlikely that he was involved in any way, I figure it's worth
      knowing a bit more about him. I know Dumbledore's take on him, and
      I roughly know Malfoy's, or at least Draco's position... but I
      would like to know <em class="calibre8">your</em> opinion about him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is there to say?" Quirrell shrugged. "He was extremely
      powerful, wielding magics most people had never even heard of. He
      had only a handful of followers, but he used them to perfection to
      strike fear in everyone's hearts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Was he intelligent? They seemed very convinced he was, and
      suggested him carrying out highly intelligent plots."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such as they would not see the difference between someone who
      receives high grades in school, or someone who is <em class="calibre8">actually</em>
      intelligent. I daresay Dumbledore believes that Lucius Malfoy is
      intelligent, and Lucius thinks the same about Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not an answer," Harry observed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defense Professor smiled. "I would say he is no fool, and
      his plots are certainly worthy of a Slytherin. I would estimate his
      intelligence over that of those who fought <em class="calibre8">or</em> served him,
      although in all fairness that is not saying much. However, there is
      little evidence that he was <em class="calibre8">more</em> than that, and plenty of
      evidence that he was not. Remember how he not only destroyed the
      dojo where he would have learned martial arts, but then also left
      someone alive to tell the tale of this weakness to the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But if it was you, Quirrell, then you</em> did <em class="calibre8">come away
      with t</em><em class="calibre8">hose martial arts lessons.</em> It suddenly hit
      Harry that Quirrell had learned to <em class="calibre8">pretend</em> to lose in a
      humiliating and painful fashion, about a year before everyone
      involved in this lesson had been tortured into insanity and killed.
      And that Quirrell's list of mistakes he would never make as a dark
      lord contained an item to <em class="calibre8">never leave the source of your power
      behind where others can find it</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It also occurred to me," Harry said (for he could not be seen
      to take too much from an idle anecdote), "that if You-Know-Who had
      <em class="calibre8">actually</em> been smart, he would have won instantly. He
      wouldn't have pottered around for ten years with standard terrorist
      tactics, he would cast <em class="calibre8">Imperius</em> on a House Elf to sneak
      transfigured toxin into the cups of his enemies or something like
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I daresay he wasn't inclined to use any Muggle knowledge, but
      otherwise, I concede your point." A grim smile crossed his face.
      "If I were bored, I could probably take over the Ministry in a few
      weeks at most."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So if he was <em class="calibre8">actually</em> intelligent," Harry pushed. He
      was a bit nervous, but he didn't let it show, as it <em class="calibre8">was</em> a
      perfectly reasonable question. "Then he wasn't really trying. So
      what would his ulterior motive have been?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defense Professor sighed, and stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will leave you to figure that out for yourself, Mr.
      Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let us dispense with games. We both know what you are really
      trying to ask. I must confess I had expected you to figure it out
      earlier, although I certainly did not mind. But very well. I shall
      update my plans accordingly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He grabbed some powder from a little box on his desk, and strode
      towards the fireplace, where green flames erupted as Harry sat
      stock-still in confusion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Quirrell looked around, and nodded formally to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Goodbye, Mr. Potter. I daresay we shall meet again." And then
      he stepped into the fire and disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The penny dropped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Aw crap.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
