<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 91: Updating Beliefs, Aftermath, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s11" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 91: Updating Beliefs, Pt 3 – Aftermath</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so you are telling me that I actually employed Lord
      Voldemort to teach Defense Against the Dark Arts."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore had his head buried in his hands, and was looking
      very old. Harry thought he had never seen the man look so
      broken.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well... yes," he said. There was no milder way of putting
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I suppose it would be too much to ask that this broke the
      curse he put on the Defense position in the first place."
      Dumbledore sighed deeply, pushed himself out behind his desk, and
      stepped over to a faded shield on the wall. After several
      incantations, he returned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have fired him," he answered Harry's unasked question. "The
      wards will no longer permit him access without giving alarm.
      Hogwarts will be safe once more. Safer, at least, than anywhere
      else in the country."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you bring my parents here?" There hadn't been much time for
      thinking during his mad run towards the Headmaster's office, just
      for a few wordless concepts to pop into his head, but that had been
      enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not believe that is necessary, although they are of course
      invited to visit you for the Easter holidays. As I have told you
      before, Voldemort and his allies have learned, during the last war,
      not to attack the Order's families."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, you taught them by burning Narcissa Malfoy to death,
      right?" Dumbledore didn't respond.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry continued, not quite managing to keep the edge from his
      voice: "I am not <em class="calibre8">in</em> the Order of the Phoenix, nor do I
      think that Quirrell is using his old Death Eaters at the moment –
      certainly not Malfoy, at any rate. Besides... I think I might have
      undone some of that work when I was prepared to pay a hundred
      thousand Galleons for Hermione Granger's life. He won't be fighting
      <em class="calibre8">you</em>, he will be fighting <em class="calibre8">me</em>, and he knows
      perfectly well that it would affect me a lot if he took my parents.
      So can we <em class="calibre8">please</em> not go from guesses, and just <em class="calibre8">keep
      them safe</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed. "Very well. I shall send Minerva, Alastor and
      some others to guard them invisibly, and then bring them here
      tomorrow to visit you. That, we can do without even giving them any
      alarm. And while they are here, I can strengthen the protections on
      them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That just seems <em class="calibre8">nowhere near enough</em>, Professor!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How much do you think Voldemort expects to gain from attacking
      your parents? If he has to fight his way through several members of
      the Order, it doesn't seem like the effort would be worth it. If I
      put my strongest protections on them, which it would take a full
      day of work to tear through, it also doesn't seem worth it. You
      <em class="calibre8">can</em> uproot their lives and ask them to stay here while
      your father loses his job and your mother is terrified – I
      <em class="calibre8">know</em> she fears magic and would not appreciate being
      trapped here – but you must ask yourself whether it would be in
      their best interest to do so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry almost roared in frustration. "Inconveniences don't
      compare to <em class="calibre8">dying</em>! Quirrell is <em class="calibre8">insanely powerful</em>.
      I... I saw him fight an Auror who looked pretty old and very tough,
      and it was just <em class="calibre8">no match</em>. He could take down several of
      your precious Order members at once while standing on his head with
      one hand tied behind his back! Bring my parents here <em class="calibre8">now</em>,
      and then we can talk about what else to do with them later."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that is the way it must be." The Phoenix Patronus blazed
      into existence. "Tell Minerva to take what help she can from the
      Order, and bring Mr. Potter's parents to Hogwarts immediately. Be
      quick, but do not give them undue alarm." The Patronus disappeared,
      and he turned his eyes back to Harry, looking severe. "And now, Mr.
      Potter, tell me." The usual warmth had gone from his voice. "When
      did you see the Defense Professor fight an Auror?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "I guess at this point it would be completely
      stupid if I didn't tell you about the Azkaban breakout."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So basically," Harry summarized. "Quirrell planned the whole
      thing, and I screwed it up. But I ended up getting out anyway,
      learning a lot about myself in the process. And I <em class="calibre8">do</em> think
      Quirrell probably told the truth, that she was originally innocent,
      because everything she said matched with what he had told me – at
      least she <em class="calibre8">did</em> love him, and did not expect to be loved in
      return. Even if she was never innocent, I'm still glad that she's
      no longer suffering there, because <em class="calibre8">no one</em> deserves that."
      He paused for a moment. "On the other hand, this whole thing was a
      huge mess-up with terrible consequences, and now she will end up
      serving You-Know-Who again and doing horrible things for him... I'm
      not so happy about that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see." Dumbledore was frowning, although he no longer looked
      threatening like he had at the beginning of this talk. "You have
      made an enormous mistake, Harry, and I wish you had decided to
      trust me, then. Death would have been the merciful way out for
      Bellatrix, and that much, I could have offered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think I would have been happy with that," Harry said,
      looking at the floor. It <em class="calibre8">would</em> have been the sensible
      thing to do, but that was just hindsight. And if Bellatrix could
      have <em class="calibre8">lived</em>, not as a slave to some Dark Lord but actually
      get therapy and be <em class="calibre8">free</em>... That would have been worth the
      other costs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least my understanding of that day is now improved," the
      Headmaster sighed. "Thank you for that, Mr. Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you going to turn me in?" He didn't <em class="calibre8">think</em> the
      Headmaster would, but it wouldn't hurt to check.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. This crime was Voldemort's, even if he misled you into
      participating. Besides, we shall need you, now more than ever. I
      will speak to Amelia and inform her of matters regarding our
      Defense Professor, and I shall say that other magic than the
      Animagus transformation was used to break out of Azkaban, but leave
      it at that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor... I think I should warn you. You think you and the
      Order have held off You-Know-Who for years. But that's just... he
      wasn't <em class="calibre8">fighting</em> you, he was <em class="calibre8">playing</em> with you. If
      he had fought all-out, he would have <em class="calibre8">won</em>, if not instantly
      then at least within the first year. I've known him since
      September, and I've known you, and I am... absolutely convinced of
      that, Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's brow creased into a deep frown, but he didn't
      outright reject the statement. "If that is the case, then what do
      you propose he <em class="calibre8">was</em> doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know." Certainly Voldemort's lack of effort made sense
      in the first two years, when Monroe was gaining prestige and
      followers from fighting him, but what about the eight years of
      terror afterwards?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's smarter than I am. I don't <em class="calibre8">know</em> what he was
      doing, he never dropped a hint, or if he did, I didn't understand
      it. I could make up many random guesses, but it would be like...
      like the old Greek philosophers saying stuff like 'all is fire'.
      I'd have no way of knowing that the hypothesis was actually
      true."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am glad that you at least acknowledge Lord Voldemort as a
      threat now. So let me ask you another question. What was he doing
      this year? The thing that was hidden in this school is still
      hidden; if he made an attempt on it, I would have known."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you <em class="calibre8">sure</em> of that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Absolutely. Merlin himself might have broken through the
      defenses, but even he would not have been able to do so without
      alarm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right." Harry decided to accept that as plausible for now.
      So what <em class="calibre8">else</em> could Voldemort, coming to teach at Hogwarts
      disguised as Professor Quirrell, achieve?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He said he always wanted to teach Defense Against the Dark
      Arts,</em> Hufflepuff pointed out. <em class="calibre8">And that might be true.
      Voldemort applied to the position years ago, which is how it got
      cursed in the first place.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">It seems unlikely to the extreme,</em> his Slytherin side
      said, <em class="calibre8">that he would go to the effort of possessing a victim's
      body and hiding right under Albus Dumbledore's nose just for the
      pleasure of teaching. There has to have been an ulterior
      motive.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So what has happened this year?</em> Ravenclaw asked.
      <em class="calibre8">Did anything out of the ordinary happen that could be best
      explained by an evil genius executing some kind of plot?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was the baffling thing. As far as Harry could see,
      nothing dark had happened this year, except for the Azkaban
      breakout, which Quirrell could not have been planning from the
      beginning (as Harry only discovered the required power in February)
      and the attack on Draco and Hermione. <em class="calibre8">That</em> had almost
      certainly been Quirrell, trying to push Harry into following his
      plan to "defeat Voldemort", and conveniently taking away the two
      people who caused Harry to think before doing stupid things. He
      might also have been involved in protecting Hermione and the other
      heroines, and sending her those messages, but to what purpose? And
      other than that, what had Quirrell done, or potentially done, other
      than just teaching? What had he even shown an interest in?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Me.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's been mentoring me," Harry said, his mouth dry, his voice
      sounding hollow even to himself. "He... had plans for me. He said
      he wanted me to rule, and every thing he did when interacting with
      me, publicly and privately, seemed to be pointing in that
      direction."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I may have been around Alastor for too long," the old wizard
      responded, "but the obvious rebuttal that comes to mind is that he
      might just want you to think that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what would the point of that be? To stop me from seeking
      power, because it might be playing into his hands?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head. "There are some things I need to do
      whether or not there is a Dark Lord I need to fight. And he
      <em class="calibre8">knows</em> that. He knows perfectly well that I will want to
      take down Azkaban no matter what – in fact, he made sure of that,
      by taking me there. He knows me through and through, Professor.
      It's pointless to conjecture him planning things which involve me
      acting unlike I normally would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you think he wanted to make his prophesied enemy stronger?
      To get you to rule, so you will have followers at your back and
      call to destroy him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, about that prophecy... Can you please make preparations
      to take me to the Department of Mysteries? I <em class="calibre8">need</em> to hear
      it for myself. It couldn't possibly be a false memory planted by
      You-Know-Who so everyone would <em class="calibre8">think</em> I was his destined
      enemy, while really I was just some random kid?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There <em class="calibre8">is</em> a prophecy, for I saw the orb float to your
      parents' hand. And if it said something different, I expect they
      would have told me. But very well. I shall make plans to let you
      visit that place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Would it take eight years to break into the Department of
      Mysteries, and insert a fake prophecy?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think I also want to know... what happened the night my
      parents died? How do we know that he tried to cast the Killing
      Curse on me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard shrugged helplessly. "It was the one spell he
      used above all. Why should he use something else?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's <em class="calibre8">all</em>? I'm known as the only person ever to
      survive the Killing Curse, and we don't even know for sure whether
      he in fact cast the Killing Curse on me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, there's another piece of evidence. There is a spell,
      <em class="calibre8">priori incantatem</em>, which forces a wand to reveal the last
      magic performed with it. I cast it on Voldemort's wand, just in
      case, and can confirm that his final spell was the Killing
      Curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait." Harry's head was buzzing. "You found You-Know-Who's
      wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course. It was left by his corpse. When Hagrid alerted me
      that the house was in ruins, I came instantly, and took all three
      wands. I have destroyed Voldemort's wand afterwards, of course." He
      didn't mention what had happened to Lily and James's wands, but
      Harry had a distinct feeling that he already knew.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The thing is... Bellatrix told me where to find my wand, when
      she believed I was her master. I thought she had visited the house
      and taken it from his body."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If she had, she would hardly have left you alive. But no, no
      Death Eater has been in your house. Even after their deaths, the
      Fidelius Charm on the Potters' house was still active. It seems
      unlikely that Sirius Black also passed the secret to her. Why would
      he, unless the Dark Lord was planning to take her with him? I have
      no guess of what she could have meant." <strong class="calibre7">[In case of
      confusion, see Footnote]</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He left his real wand with her." Harry was staring into space.
      "And he took a spare wand himself. He was <em class="calibre8">planning</em> to die,
      or to leave his wand behind, or for <em class="calibre8">something</em> unusual to
      happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster gave him a piercing stare. "What on earth could
      be his motive for dying? It doesn't seem like the kind of thing he
      would be overly fond of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are convinced he was already immortal, aren't you? So
      leaving the burnt husk of his body behind wouldn't hurt him as much
      as it would most other people. I don't know <em class="calibre8">why</em> he would
      do that, but that might just mean I'm not creative enough. And in
      fact, what if he never did cast the Killing Curse on me, but cast
      it on <em class="calibre8">himself</em>? It doesn't make sense that a small baby
      would be the first to survive the Killing Curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That would require a rather extraordinary amount of
      self-loathing." There was no twinkle in Dumbledore's eyes, only
      sadness and exhaustion. "And I can think of several reasons why the
      Killing Curse might have bounced."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quirked his eyebrows. "Like what? The harmonizing of our
      magics?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That could certainly have caused unexpected problems," the old
      wizard nodded, "although I have never heard of such an effect and
      cannot imagine why you would have been born with it. I suspect the
      reason is rather the other way around."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you care to elaborate?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would have preferred to wait longer, but... I know there is
      little point in treating you as a child." He stood up, and took an
      ancient-looking book from a shelf. The pages were grayed and
      brittle, and it shed paperdust as Dumblefore carefully opened
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I found this old grimoire in the ruins of an ancient structure
      of what was once the capital city of magical Italy. I have made
      copies, of course, but with magical books, the original often has a
      kind of integrity that copying cannot preserve. So too with this
      one. There is a lot of knowledge contained in its pages, even if
      most of it is half-faded, but what is most relevant to you is found
      in chapter nine." The pages rustled, and turned themselves towards
      somewhere around the middle of the book.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Here," he pointed to the left page, which featured a faded
      picture of a girl, somewhere between six and fifteen years old, but
      it was hard to tell, "the author, a werewolf who lived some nine
      hundred years ago, describes a child, who seemed to be possessed by
      a dark wizard that was terrorizing the country at the time. She did
      his bidding, remembered things that only the dark wizard would
      know, and even had the same kind of walk and peculiar facial
      expressions. Sometimes, very rarely, the child acted differently,
      more child-like, and did not remember what it had been doing. The
      author says he believes that there were two spirits in the child,
      one the original, and one the possessor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The interesting thing, the <em class="calibre8">extremely</em> interesting
      thing, was that the dark wizard in question was alive, and
      functioning, at the same time. This is the only tale I have ever
      found of a possession which did not require the possessor to be
      dead or unconscious. I do not know how he managed the feat, but I
      have not read all the ancient works that still exist, and Lord
      Voldemort might well have found different stories. Since learning
      of your dark side I have come back to this tale, and while the
      explanation I have pieced together is far from complete, it seems
      likely that there is some kind of connection. I suspect that,
      unlike what we might normally expect, he did not try to kill you
      <em class="calibre8">immediately</em>. If he knew the dark magic to take over
      another's body, he might have used that on you. Your dark side is
      really the remainder of his spirit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "That doesn't make sense. One, why would he do
      that, rather than killing me? Two, we <em class="calibre8">know</em> that his last
      spell was the Killing Curse, why would he go to that effort and
      then try to kill me afterwards? Three, my dark side is not a
      separate entity, it is a way I sometimes <em class="calibre8">am</em>. I asked the
      sorting hat, and it did say that there was only one person under
      its brim. So it seems that this has little to do with
      <em class="calibre8">me</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do not forget the words of the prophecy, Harry. <em class="calibre8">Either must
      destroy all but a remnant of the other.</em> That, I think, might
      have been what motivated him. Should one seek to prevent a prophecy
      in the obvious way, the invariable outcome is that they end up
      fulfilling it regardless. Voldemort might have realized that the
      prophecy would not have been fulfilled if he killed you, and fate
      would intercede to have <em class="calibre8">something</em> go wrong. Something that
      would <em class="calibre8">mark you as his equal</em>, which might refer to a
      transfer of power. When I learned of your dark side, I realized
      that it was obvious that Voldemort would not have made that
      mistake. <em class="calibre8">Preventing</em> a prophecy is hard;
      <em class="calibre8">fulfilling</em> it is easier. If he used this dark ritual on
      you, it <em class="calibre8">would</em> mark you as his equal, as you would
      essentially share a part of his magic. And he might then be able to
      use the Killing Curse, which strikes directly at the soul, but is
      known to leave the body intact... That would leave only a remnant
      of you behind, your body, preserved by the possession."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems... extremely convoluted. And rather
      far-fetched."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it were <em class="calibre8">only</em> intended to leave a remnant of you
      behind, the process would certainly be unnecessarily complicated.
      However, there are other advantages to this course of action. He
      would have a child in his power – a child believed by others to be
      harmless, and moreover a herald of the light – and could use the
      body to come close enough to his enemies to strike. He might have
      been contemplating such a possession before, and simply taken an
      opportunity to win two battles in a single move. It seems unwise to
      use the body of such a young child, but perhaps the method only
      works on children? I do not know, but I must beg you not to
      disregard the possibility merely for my lack of knowledge – I
      cannot provide details, but what I do know is that your dark side
      seems like a reflection of Voldemort's personality, and this is the
      best hint I could find to a process which might have caused such an
      effect. Undoubtedly there is far more to this tale that I simply do
      not yet comprehend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right. But that still doesn't address the problem that my dark
      side simply <em class="calibre8">does not behave like that</em>. Nor does it explain
      why You-Know-Who died."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It might. The Killing Curse is not an easy spell, and I am not
      certain how it behaves in situations outside the obvious. If he was
      possessing your body at the time, it is conceivable that he
      accidentally hit that part of himself. Even the most powerful
      wizards can make mistakes, especially when they attempt magic that
      has never been done before. An accident like this could well make
      the spell backfire. And while we have exceedingly little data as to
      what a botched Killing Curse might do, it does not seem
      inconceivable that it caused a part of his personality to be blown
      into you – his personality only, not his consciousness, so the
      sorting hat would not see it. Perhaps, when his spirit was flung
      from his and your body, it passed through your soul, leaving part
      of itself behind? Or the possession itself warped what had already
      developed of your own personality? You were very young at the time,
      your mind and soul still growing, so that might be why you subsumed
      this part of him inside yourself. However it may be, it is still
      obviously a somewhat separate part of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was there any chance that this insane story was really true?
      Leaving aside all the guesswork and unstated assumptions about
      souls in the explanation, could Voldemort have caused some kind of
      spell effect that blasted his own personality in a part of Harry's
      brain?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dumbledore is generally hailed as wise,</em> his Gryffindor
      side pointed out. <em class="calibre8">He is also probably insane, but he has read
      many ancient texts, knows of many dark rituals. In matters of myth
      and legend he is certainly schooled. I would not disregard his
      theory just because it seems somewhat wild – if he takes the
      possibility seriously, things like this might have happened before.
      Even disregarding the rest, his words suggest that there are
      multiple sources referring to</em> possession <em class="calibre8">– what would
      something like that do to the developing brain of a baby?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But if it is true, how could we</em> know <em class="calibre8">that?</em>
      Ravenclaw asked. <em class="calibre8">It does fit the data somewhat, but</em>
      <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore</em> had <em class="calibre8">most of this data when he constructed
      the hypothesis, so we cannot really use the fact that it seems to
      fit as proof. Is there an additional experiment that could confirm
      some of these ideas?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">We do not need to believe it to acknowledge the</em>
      possibility <em class="calibre8">that our dark side was originally a part of
      Voldemort</em>, Slytherin pointed out. <em class="calibre8">And act
      accordingly.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Act how?</em> Ravenclaw rebutted. <em class="calibre8">If we do not know the
      extent or the method of the possession, the possibilities to
      account for are endless. If even half of this story is true, it
      could mean that something</em> more <em class="calibre8">than his personality is
      still there – what if he is still possessing us? What if he can
      take us over any time he likes, read our mind, or perhaps even have
      us drop dead on command?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I don't think he read our thoughts...</em> Hufflepuff
      pointed out timidly. <em class="calibre8">He didn't really seem to know about
      Draco's Patronus, or about the fake spell we gave Tracey.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Or that's just what he wants you to think,</em> said the
      voice of Moody.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief pause as the other imaginary personalities
      stared at the newcomer, but then Ravenclaw gave a mental shrug, and
      added: <em class="calibre8">This is Quirrell we're talking about. There's really no
      telling with him. But it</em> would <em class="calibre8">explain why he so often
      seems to know exactly what we aren't telling him, and manages to
      deduce the right conclusion even when there is no way he could</em>
      possibly <em class="calibre8">figure that out from just the information he
      has.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right. I guess it is <em class="calibre8">possible</em>, or parts of it are.
      I'll think about it some more."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded. "Then I guess I shall go and inform Amelia,
      and the Order now." He sighed. "And I suppose you would like me to
      formally introduce you into the Order, and keep you involved in its
      activities?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well..." Harry shifted awkwardly. "Please don't take this the
      wrong way, Professor, but I don't think I really want to be part of
      the Order of the Phoenix –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore gazed at him tiredly. "Oh? That seems
      uncharacteristic of you. Would you not normally ask to be included
      and kept in the loop for such activities? I have been trying to
      treat you less like a child."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, yes, and I appreciate it, but that's not it..." There was
      no tactful way of putting this. He wasn't quite ready to take
      Dumbledore as his enemy – the old man didn't seem <em class="calibre8">evil.</em> In
      fact, he was obviously well-intentioned, or Fawkes would leave him;
      what little he knew about phoenixes at least agreed on that. Nor
      was it <em class="calibre8">certain</em> that he had tortured Narcissa Malfoy to
      death. But still... "I just don't like your methods,
      Professor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah." The old wizard looked very ancient indeed, as he stared
      sadly at Harry. "And you believe that you can do better? That you
      can fight your war without making sacrifices, without taking
      losses?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know. But at least I want to try."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard sighed. "Very well. I cannot say that this is
      entirely unexpected. Even so, however, as I told you on the first
      day we spoke, I do believe that you and I are game-pieces of the
      same color, Harry. You <em class="calibre8">do</em> oppose Voldemort, do you not,
      even if he is the wizard who mentored you, and you have come to
      think of him as a friend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. There was no way he could even consider taking
      Albus Dumbledore as his enemy without being <em class="calibre8">slightly more
      offended</em> about a dark wizard who nailed the skins of Yermy
      Wibble and his family to a wall, or who had made Hermione believe
      that she would turn to cold-blooded murder, or who had bound
      Bellatrix Black to him with dark magic, or who had mocked Lily in
      her final moments, or who had done all those other acts of torture,
      murder and general terrorism by comparison with which merely
      murdering Harry's parents was not even worth mentioning... It was
      painful to think that it would have been <em class="calibre8">Professor
      Quirrell</em> behind all that, and some part of him still didn't
      believe that he and the late Dark Lord were the same person, but
      regardless of that, Lord Voldemort was his enemy, plain and simple.
      Whether that meant he had to <em class="calibre8">die</em> was a different question,
      but should he stand in the way of Dumbledore killing him if there
      was an opening? Could he be that sure of himself?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He is my enemy," Harry simply replied.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you like me to relinquish command of the Order to
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked, taken aback. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Minerva has already shown that, when pressed on the point, her
      first loyalty is with you rather than me. Others might make the
      same choice. You are our symbol of hope, Harry, and if anyone can
      defeat him, it is you. You might turn out to be a better leader
      than I was, or have become now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I... I don't think I'm ready for... no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well." The old wizard stood up, and was suddenly dressed
      in formal black robes. Despite the look of sadness his face was
      still wearing, he seemed formidable. "Then I shall continue to
      oppose Voldemort in any way I can, until you tell me to back off
      and get out of your way. I expect that you shall form your own
      plans, but do not hesitate to call on me when you need me for any
      purpose. You may have lost faith in me, Harry, and you may even be
      right in that. However, my loyalty will always be with you."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">-o-o-o-o-o-</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Footnote:</strong> this text may seem to
      contradict chapter 53, where Bellatrix says she got the wand from
      the Potters' house. In fact, it was based on an earlier version of
      the text, where Bellatrix said this instead:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Your wand," murmured Bellatrix, "I hid it in the graveyard,
      my lord, before I left... under the tombstone to the right of your
      father's grave... will you kill me, now, if that was all you wished
      of me... I think I must have always wanted you to be the one to
      kill me... but I can't remember now, it must have been a happy
      thought..."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">This paragraph was altered afterwards, probably to clarify the
      question where she would have got the wand. Which is unfortunate
      for me, as I took the different interpretation for this spin-off.
      :) So, please pretend that Bellatrix left ambiguous where she got
      the wand!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As for the Fidelius Charm: this charm is not the same as in the
      original Harry Potter books, where its use is somewhat inconsistent
      (and would be overpowered if used rationally). Most importantly,
      you cannot be your own secret-keeper, the protection simply breaks
      when the secret-keeper dies, and the spell can only be used on a
      location, not on other secrets. I've written up some musings below
      of how I roughly envision it could work (and still be mostly
      consistent with all but the last Harry Potter book), but these
      details will not be important.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Fidelius Charm is actually not a charm, but rather a piece
      of ritual magic (hence why it gets to be so powerful). The ritual
      is performed by a witch or wizard of great power (the caster),
      targeting a not-too-large location (the secret), and using one or
      more volunteers (the secret-keepers). The key to the ritual is
      <em class="calibre8">trust</em>: the location stays safe as long as a trusted person
      (or multiple trusted people) chooses to jeopardize their own safety
      over betraying the secret location (and presumably the people
      within).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Once performed, the location is hidden from sight, plotting,
      charms, divinations or any other magical or mundane means. There
      are no known ways to get around the protection. Even if you know
      for a fact that there are people hidden in 12 Grimmauld Place, you
      have no way of reaching the place unless you are explicitly told
      about the location by a secret-keeper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Only the secret-keepers can tell other people about the
      secret. The people who are told do NOT become secret-keepers, so
      they cannot give other parties access. Secret-keepers must be
      witches or wizards, and cannot be added after the completion of the
      ritual. Sharing the secret can only be done willingly: if it is
      spoken under Veritaserum or Imperius, or plucked from their mind
      using Legilimency, the person in question will still not be able to
      find the location. This does not preclude torture, however, as a
      tortured secret-keeper still has a <em class="calibre8">choice</em> whether or not
      to reveal the secret of the location. To stay in keeping with the
      novels, let us say that the caster does not need to identify the
      secret-keepers by name, but they are for instance identified as the
      people inside the location at the time of the ritual; if anyone
      wanted extra safety by deceiving the caster about the identity of
      the secret-keepers, the volunteer could use polyjuice potion. Or,
      say, carry a certain rat in their pocket to get multiple
      secret-keepers. :)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* If a secret-keeper is inside a location under the Fidelius
      Charm – any location, not just their own – their secret-keeper
      magic starts stressing until it reaches breaking point after one
      hour and they are removed as a secret-keeper (see next point). When
      they leave the Fideliused locations, this stress starts slowly
      decreasing again. So they can visit the people whose location they
      are keeping secret, but never for more than an hour, and afterwards
      they have to stay away for a day or so before it's safe to visit
      for an hour again; they cannot just step out for a second to reset
      the timer.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* A person is removed as a secret-keeper if they are (a) dead,
      (b) inside a location hidden by the Fidelius Charm for too long,
      (c) unable to share the secret willingly for too long (with a
      similar "stress" timer as above) – where "unable" could for
      instance be because they are insane, in a coma, under Imperius, in
      a magical sleep or imprisoned, or if they have sworn an unbreakable
      vow that would interfere with having a choice in the matter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* The spell breaks if the location has been abandoned by humans
      for over a day, if the caster dies, or if there are no
      secret-keepers left. When the protection starts fading, everyone
      inside the location will be aware of this, and they will have
      several minutes before they are exposed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Temporary sacrifices (for as long as the protection is active
      – note that for the unbreakable vow, as described in chapter 74,
      two out of three sacrifices are of this temporary nature): the
      location sacrifices accessibility. The secret-keepers sacrifice
      their own safety (they run a severe risk of getting captured and
      tortured while they're keeping the secret) and cannot strongly
      protect themselves from magical tests to verify whether or not they
      are a secret-keeper. Finally, the caster sacrifices a small portion
      of their magic to keep the protection active.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Permanent sacrifices: the caster sacrifices three months of
      their life (sacrificing "life" will be explained in later
      chapters). The secret-keepers permanently sacrifice a portion of
      safety, in that they lose the power to be subjected to powerful
      personal wards (e.g. blood wards or wards that stop you from
      getting traced by name). Since this must be an actual sacrifice,
      this implies that you can only be a secret-keeper for one place in
      your life. For someone in Dumbledore's position, this sacrifice is
      simply too dangerous, which is why he could never be a
      secret-keeper.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So, you can have multiple secret-keepers, but you'd better trust
      every single one of them not to betray you even under torture.
      There's no point being your own secret-keeper; if you stay inside
      the hidden location for more than an hour (for example to sleep),
      the spell breaks. It makes sense for an enemy to kill a
      secret-keeper in the hope to break the spell, but then the people
      in the hidden location will have warning (and it won't work if
      there are other secret-keepers), so persuading them to speak would
      be preferable. You could hide a family by persuading a good person
      completely unrelated to them to be a secret-keeper (without telling
      them who's in the location they're hiding), which mitigates the
      risk to the secret-keeper, but then they will have little reason to
      suffer and/or die for you if their secret-keeperness should be
      discovered (plus, since the secret-keeper can access the location,
      they can probably check who's inside it without being noticed, and
      then they might just choose to betray you for money or other
      gains).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(I hope I made this watertight. However, I have little doubt
      that the munchkins among you will figure out further ways to break
      this. :) <em class="calibre8">Edit:</em> thanks to reviewers for pointing out the
      "step outside for a second" loophole.)</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
