<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 95: Nihil Supernum, Pt 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s15" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 95: Nihil Supernum, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Herimone's eyes opened, and she saw the gray air with a
      tiny bit of sunlight filtering through, her first emotion was
      surprise.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I'm... alive?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she registered what else was in the limit of her
      vision. Six Aurors in their purple robes, surrounding her. All of
      them were looking very grim. And all had their wands pointed at
      her, ready to fire.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh no...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione Granger," the foremost one spoke. "You are under
      arrest for jailbreak, attempted assisted mass-jailbreak, and
      destruction of national weapons."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was tied up, she realized. And of course they had taken her
      wand. But on her shoulder, bright and warm, the phoenix still
      sat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will be taken in custody in the Aurors' rooms in Azkaban,"
      the man continued. "Where you will be interrogated under three
      drops of Veritaserum."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">No!</em>" she gasped in horror. Of <em class="calibre8">course</em> this
      would happen. "Not veritaserum! It's dangerous!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man smirked, obviously unimpressed. "For your helpers,
      certainly. For yourself I daresay it will hardly matter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No! It's..." she searched her mind for something to say,
      remembered Professor Quirrell's formulation in the special lecture.
      "I used magics not to be spoken of with those who cannot cast
      them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man just smirked. "Nice try. Take her up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They levitated her from their brooms, onto the roof and toward
      the door to the Auror Headquarters. Hermione desperately tried to
      think of ways to <em class="calibre8">make them not do this</em>. But what could she
      say that they would listen to? She was a convicted
      attempted-murderess who had just broken out of prison, she didn't
      <em class="calibre8">get</em> to frame the conversation or pose any conditions. And
      ten days of Occlumency training from a book would be nowhere near
      enough to resist Veritaserum.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then they took her through the door, and she saw the ancient
      wizard, standing among several men and women in Auror garb, as he
      gazed at her with a look of concern in his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor!" she yelled. "Help! Please tell them they <em class="calibre8">must
      not</em> make me explain what I did!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Auror guiding her pushed her in a chair roughly, and the
      ropes binding her shifted to include the chair. "Give it up," he
      sneered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's this?" A woman stepped forward. Hermione recognized her
      from the trial. She had been one of the few to vote against
      imprisonment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The girl obviously doesn't want to reveal her helpers, Madam
      Bones," the leading Auror said. "She claims she has dangerous
      knowledge, so we shouldn't interrogate her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is easy to test, Auror Gutierrez. When a witch or wizard
      tells you they know of magic that is not to be spoken of, you do
      not force them to, unless you <em class="calibre8">know</em> they are lying. A
      single drop of Veritaserum will be enough to confirm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The bottle was brought forth. "Open your mouth, girl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She did so. <em class="calibre8">One</em> drop would be fine. She could at least
      still refuse to answer, then. She tasted the slightly-bitter liquid
      on her tongue, and swallowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, Miss Granger," the woman asked, in a crisp voice. "Would
      it be hazardous for me, personally, if I were to give you a second
      drop?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could the woman cast a Patronus? It was likely, if she had come
      to Azkaban at all, that this was the case. "I think so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman – Madam Bones, Susan's "auntie", she knew – turned to
      the other Aurors. "We will keep it to the single drop. I will
      perform the interrogation myself, just in case. Do you have any
      cell blocks free? Without holes in the wall, that is?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A block, third level," the one-handed Auror Hermione had only
      met once before answered. The woman nodded, and Hermione floated
      loose from the chair at a flick of her wand. "Let's go." She turned
      to the bird, then. "And I suppose you may fly along. Not that your
      kind cares about permission."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry quietly cursed the situation as he sped away from Azkaban
      in a random direction. <em class="calibre8">Why now?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd known the plan to help Hermione was dangerous from the
      start. He'd seen half a dozen ways for it to go wrong: they could
      have been caught going to Azkaban, the Aurors might have suspected
      something was up because Hermione wasn't going insane, they could
      have caught her reading when she wasn't expecting it, she could
      lose control of her Patronus... but it hadn't occurred to him that
      she might do something like this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You really should have seen it coming,</em> Gryffindor
      pointed out. <em class="calibre8">You told</em> Hermione Granger <em class="calibre8">how to destroy
      Dementors, and then left her inside Azkaban. If anything, we should
      be surprised that it took her so long</em><em class="calibre8">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione had done the right thing, the thing Harry should have
      done a long time ago. The frustrating part was how close his
      careful planning had come. Just yesterday, Padma had managed to
      perform the True Patronus Charm, and they had spent the rest of the
      evening considering their options. In a week, he could have bought
      Hermione out of Azkaban; with the promise of asking Hermione's
      parents for the money, Dumbledore would likely have consented. And
      then, with three True Patronus casters and Lesath helping out with
      sleeping hexes, they could have attacked Azkaban without dying.
      Today, Padma had started brewing Polyjuice Potion. In a month, when
      the potion would be ready, they could launch their attack together.
      The plan wasn't complete, but they'd have a month to refine it,
      prepare, and look up relevant spells. Four children, polyjuiced as
      toddlers, would fit together under the cloak. If they got caught,
      Harry could take all the blame – Padma had found an old spell,
      binding people in servitude to a Noble House, which would legally
      exonerate them from anything Harry ordered them to do. And if
      anyone could deal with the political fallout that would undoubtedly
      follow, it was the Boy-Who-Lived, scion of a Noble House, who just
      so happened to be in debt to Lord Malfoy by such a significant
      amount that the man would have a powerful motivation <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      to press for his execution or life-long imprisonment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione did not have those protections.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But she seems to have a phoenix now, which is a rather
      powerful symbol in itself,</em> Ravenclaw pointed out. <em class="calibre8">And we
      only had half-hearted plans. How sure are you that you could have
      kept the others out of trouble? How sure that three Patronuses
      could have taken down Azkaban without anyone dying, or without the
      Aurors stopping us too early? How sure that Lesath would have been
      prepared to come willingly, not just because we asked? And if we
      truly consider Hermione our equal, isn't it better to have a 100%
      chance of trouble for Hermione than a 20% chance for each of
      Hermione, Padma and Lesath and 80% for ourselves?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The prisoners are safe now,</em> Gryffindor added. <em class="calibre8">Would
      you really have preferred them suffering for another
      month?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Besides,</em> Slytherin spoke. <em class="calibre8">It will be significantly
      easier to achieve our political goals if we are not perceived as
      irresponsible. As it is, we will not need to go into debt, and in
      the aftermath of this, it should be easy to approach other
      countries and offer to get rid of their Dementors. Will that not be
      worth it?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry gritted his teeth, and his inner Hufflepuff spoke in one
      voice with the central Harry as they answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Not unless Hermione survives.</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones levitated the girl into the middle cell of the
      designated cell block, locked the grate, and cast <em class="calibre8">Bulbali</em>.
      Three bulbs of soft yellow-white light appeared in the air,
      illuminating the area. Then, she waved her wand, and the ropes
      binding the prisoner fell away.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am sorry for the harsh treatment, Miss Granger," she said, in
      a gentler tone than she had used before. Her niece had told her
      about Hermione Granger, who was a friend of hers, and it had
      sounded very much like, well, like the kind of girl to whom a
      phoenix would come to help other prisoners, and not like a crazy
      murderer. "I realize that you are not a bad person. But you have
      shown magics today that should have been impossible, and caution
      seems prudent, even when you are wandless. Would you see any way of
      escaping if I allowed your phoenix into the cell with you?
      Phoenixes cannot use their particular Apparition-like magic within
      the boundaries of Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl shook her head. "I don't think I can do anything
      without a wand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia nodded, and reopened the grate for a moment. The phoenix
      flew in and settled itself in the girl's lap. She'd have to check
      what the protocol said about prisoners with phoenixes – as fas as
      she knew, the question hadn't come up since Azkaban was first built
      – but for now, she didn't want to deal with the ruckus of keeping
      the creature away from its master.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now, there's a lot of questions I have for you." She took her
      notebook and ballpoint pen from her pocket. Muggle technology could
      sometimes be very <em class="calibre8">practical</em>, for example when you didn't
      want to carry around an ink well. "And while I won't give you any
      more Veritaserum, don't think you'll get away with not answering a
      question, we have procedures for that. First of all, what
      <em class="calibre8">was</em> that spell that you used to destroy all the Dementors
      here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a version of the Patronus Charm," the child whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you discover it yourself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who, then?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry Potter. He didn't want to tell me at first, because it
      was too dangerous, but he gave me a note to explain it in case I
      ever needed it. I read it when I was here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. So I guess you're not going to tell me how you did
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head again. "That would be a really bad idea."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. Will you tell me, then, how you got your hands on a
      wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl took a deep breath. "There was an otter –"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">A sick, twisting feeling, like a thousand wriggling worms, was
      squirming in Li's stomach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He knew what was going to happen next. He'd known from the
      beginning that they couldn't keep protecting the child forever.
      Sooner of later, the massive breach of protocol would be
      discovered. And then heads would roll, starting with his. They had
      all been part of it, but Li had started the whole thing and he
      would step up and take all the blame. He'd planned that from the
      first day, when he found the others joining in, and they had all
      known that he would. He had counted on getting a dishonorable
      discharge, even though he quietly suspected that Madam Bones would
      be understanding; the others would not have much more to fear than
      a formal warning. And that was worth it, to be able to look into
      the mirror and see a man with some shred of honor left.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But <em class="calibre8">this</em>... This was rather more severe. Someone had
      smuggled a wand to the girl, and she had used it to break out and
      somehow <em class="calibre8">destroy all Dementors</em> and nearly allowed other
      prisoners – dangerous ones – to escape, and the fact that that was
      supposed to be completely impossible didn't do anything about the
      point that she would not have been able to do it if there hadn't
      been a Patronus in her cell day and night.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Leela glanced at him briefly, an unreadable look on her face.
      Every once in a while one of his colleagues would look over.
      Guilty, pitying looks, which nevertheless admitted of no doubt: he
      would still take all the blame. One target would be enough to take
      Lucius Malfoy's anger at hearing about the events surrounding his
      prisoner. One Auror who would stand trial alongside the child.
      <em class="calibre8">She</em> would undoubtedly receive the Dementor's Kiss, phoenix
      and obviously good intentions or not. Was the same fate reserved
      for him, for unwittingly accommodating the outbreak? Or would he be
      sent back to Azkaban, to serve as a prisoner instead of a guard? It
      was scant comfort that there were no Dementors around the place
      anymore. He knew that it would not last long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The six of them – the Aurors who had been in their waking period
      at the time of the Event – were sitting together in the Aurors'
      Headquarters, keeping a studious look at the screens showing the
      Azkaban surroundings, which had just been extended to also show
      Disillusioned objects. So insufficient were the wards of the
      prison, now that its Dementors were gone, that to see what was
      happening, they had little better to rely on than their eyes. The
      Ministry's best casters were strengthening the wards, but it would
      still take <em class="calibre8">days</em> to get something resembling actual
      security again. Other Aurors were patrolling the halls, or flying
      around the building. But the Azkaban Aurors were kept here,
      together, undoubtedly by design. It would not be long, now, until
      Director Bones returned, and placed them all under arrest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li waited.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The child finished explaining about the mysterious memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Amelia said slowly. And she did. The memory-plant was
      well-done. Not only did it completely hide the identity of the
      girl's benefactor, it <em class="calibre8">also</em> reinforced the idea in her mind
      that someone might have memory-charmed her before. If required to
      state again under Veritaserum whether she had tried to kill Draco
      Malfoy, Amelia suspected the girl would say no. Not that this was
      important enough to warrant testing, right now. There were more
      pressing matters, little though she liked them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What concerns me is how you managed to cast your Patronus. Even
      with a wand, your magic should have been drained in your sleep, and
      you look <em class="calibre8">far</em> too mentally healthy for a first-year child
      who has spent the last week and a half exposed to Dementors, even
      only during the nights. You had Auror protection, didn't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl fidgeted. But she had to answer, just like Amelia had
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> to ask, even if she completely understood why some
      Azkaban Aurors would have sent a Patronus to guard the child during
      their hours. She might have done the same in their place, but the
      Minister of Magic, Lucius Malfoy and other important officials
      would never accept a non-prosecution in this case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't <em class="calibre8">need</em> Auror protection," the child said
      eventually, weighing her words exactly. "I could sleep in the
      cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia's hand paused on the paper. "Cloak?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry couldn't check his watch, not without getting out from
      under the cloak, and that would just be stupid. But he was pretty
      sure he'd flown for twenty minutes at <em class="calibre8">least</em>, more likely
      half an hour. So he halted the broomstick in mid-air, put his hand
      in his pouch and whispered "deck of cards".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh. Right. This was going to be tricky without seeing them. He
      carefully removed the cards from their carton, and then put both
      the cards and the carton back into the pouch. Then he whispered
      "King of Hearts".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A playing card shot into his hand. Taking a deep breath, he tore
      it in half.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl had been given the Cloak of Invisibility, which had
      shielded her from the Dementors' gaze. She had left it in her cell,
      wrapping it around the pouch. Which was <em class="calibre8">interesting</em>, as
      the cell had been searched while the girl was brought in for
      questioning, and only the pouch had been found. It was a moderately
      powerful device, but her best spellcheckers had nevertheless been
      able to find the secret enchantment on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was quite obvious that the girl was hiding something, and
      Amelia had a pretty good idea what that was. But she made very sure
      not to ask questions that couldn't be dodged. The girl's tone and
      little hesitations might give the truth away, but the
      <em class="calibre8">words</em> were innocent enough, and those were the only ones
      she needed to transcribe. It might not be entirely proper, but she
      would honestly be able to say that she had written Granger's exact
      words down, and the girl would be able to confirm that much under
      Veritaserum.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So," she summarized in the end. "You have told me what you know
      of the night of your arrival, and I have a pretty good idea of how
      you managed to resist the Dementors' drain. Now, tell me about
      today."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I just couldn't bear it anymore," Hermione Granger answered.
      She looked Amelia straight in the eyes. "People should not be fed
      to Dementors, no matter what they've done." Her voice had grown
      stronger, commanding, like you wouldn't normally expect to hear
      from a twelve-year old child. "And I realized that there was
      something I could do about it. I thought it would kill me, but that
      would be worth it. And then there was suddenly a phoenix in my
      cell."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia nodded. She had heard a little of phoenix-lore, although
      no phoenix had ever come to her. "And I bet the creature encouraged
      you. But a phoenix could not get you out of the building. How did
      you make that hole?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl bit her lip. "I'm not sure I can say."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're <em class="calibre8">not sure</em>? Would it be dangerous for me to
      hear?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know! I had to promise not to tell anyone, but I don't
      know why not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. Who did you promise?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hesitated, but then lowered her eyes. "Professor
      McGonagall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Interesting.</em> Albus Dumbledore was sure to know more
      about this. "Very well. What happened after you created the
      hole?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The phoenix took me outside, carried me down to the pit, and I
      cast my spell. I was <em class="calibre8">sure</em> it would kill me. I was
      <em class="calibre8">supposed</em> to die, so I wouldn't... Anyway, it flew me down
      so I would be as close to the Dementors as possible. I
      <em class="calibre8">felt</em> myself fading, but somehow my strength kept coming
      back, but the Patronus only got larger and I couldn't control it
      anymore even when I stopped feeling the Dementors, and... And then
      I must have passed out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia nodded again. "I suspect the phoenix sustained you,
      crying on you from above, and thereby stopped you from passing out
      earlier or dying." <em class="calibre8">For a while, at least</em>, she mentally
      added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't know it would do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Few people do, beforehand. When did you contact Harry
      Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She started, at that. "Just before I finished the hole. I wanted
      to say goodbye."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia noted that down, too. "I think I've got a pretty good
      overview of the events now. Did anything else happen that you think
      I would like to know about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She stated the question very deliberately, hoping that the girl
      would pick up the hint.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I also sent my Patronus to the other prisoners in my corridor
      and the corridor below a few times," Hermione confessed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another note. "Anything else?" The girl shook her head. "I don't
      think anything else happened that you would want to know." She
      smiled very weakly at that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then I suppose we are down to the question of your anonymous
      benefactor. I know you must hate telling me, but do you know who it
      was?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hesitated, for a moment. "I don't <em class="calibre8">know</em> who it
      was."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Nice try.</em> "Who do you <em class="calibre8">think</em> it was?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The girl bit her lip and rocked back and forth, but she knew she
      couldn't escape answering the question. "Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones sat back. "Harry Potter is a first-year child. He
      does not have the sheer power to break through the walls of the
      fortress and restore them afterwards, never mind making a pouch
      like yours. I imagine he'd have trouble even getting out of the
      school." But Hermione Granger was intelligent, wasn't she? She
      would have known this. "Tell me <em class="calibre8">why</em> you suspect him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He would do anything to save me. He always does. Unless I tell
      him not to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As you did in the trial." She had had her doubts, from the
      beginning, whether that was really a bluff like Albus Dumbledore
      had claimed. Obviously this child had fully believed the boy. And
      the threat had just been a little <em class="calibre8">too</em> mad to expect to be
      taken seriously, even for an 11-year-old who had just promised
      House Malfoy his enmity. Too mad, unless he fully expected to be
      able to follow up on it. "Any other reasons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The otter knew about the Patronus Charm, it warned me about the
      dangers, and Harry never told <em class="calibre8">anyone</em>, he only gave me that
      piece of paper."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you also knew about the Patronus Charm, and you do not
      remember putting the books and the wand into the pouch in the first
      place. So, you were obviously Obliviated. It could simply be that
      you tried casting the Patronus Charm before you were Obliviated,
      almost died, and then left this as a warning to yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's possible," Hermione conceded. But she didn't seem to
      believe it. "Any further reasons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The science books. Harry has <em class="calibre8">lots</em> of those. And one of
      them was on timeless physics, and – and Harry uses that, in a
      special magic of his that I shouldn't talk about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Which might have something to do with the hole in the
      wall</em> or <em class="calibre8">the Patronus,</em> she thought. <em class="calibre8">Or something
      else. Just how many things has the boy discovered?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did you ever see him with any of those books?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones nodded slowly. It was a reason for
      <em class="calibre8">suspicion</em>, but it wasn't evidence, it would never stand up
      for the Wizengamot. If the girl was right, and the Boy-Who-Lived
      had played a part in her rescue, then he was certainly very cunning
      for a first-year child. That, or his helpers had been.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any other reasons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He has an invisibility cloak. I used to think that it was the
      Deathly Hallow, but then, the one I got felt differently."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you think it was the same one after all?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't <em class="calibre8">know</em> what I should think!" the child
      exclaimed. "How do I even know whether my memories are real?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would be checkable, at least, whether the boy still had his
      cloak. Two weeks might be too brief to buy a new one, as rare as
      they were. Although, given the pouch, a fairly powerful witch or
      wizard must have been involved anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A name came to her mind then. <em class="calibre8">Albus Dumbledore.</em> The
      weak-hearted old fool might well have cared enough about the
      innocent child to come to her aid. Would he have taken that kind of
      risk? It seemed a bit foolhardy, even for him, to risk everything
      for a Muggleborn child, bright and sweet and brave, but ultimately
      not <em class="calibre8">important</em>, not even a pawn in the war that was lying
      before them. But then, would it be a risk to him? Nothing in all
      that Hermione knew could possibly identify the witch or wizard who
      had helped her. Indeed, if it was Dumbledore, he had even cast the
      pouch's protections weaker than he could have.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Any other reasons?" The girl obviously wasn't going to
      volunteer the most incriminating parts while there were other
      answers she could give. Three drops of Veritaserum were a lot more
      <em class="calibre8">convenient</em> when interrogating suspects, but then, there
      were some upsides to not having the girl forced to blurt out any
      relevant details she could think of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Hermione whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Bones stood up. "Thank you for your explanation. I shall
      now go back and discuss what must happen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And she stood up and left the cell block, locking the metal door
      behind herself.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who's there? Show yourself!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked in disorientation as he arrived in a different
      place. A weathered-looking room, but serviceable, with a fire
      crackling merrily in the fireplace. And in front of a chair, his
      wand drawn, stood –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry drew off his cloak. "Mr. Lupin?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Harry?</em>" the faintly scarred man in the old clothes
      asked with a start. "What are you doing here? Did you run away from
      Hogwarts?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I – it's complicated. I need to get <em class="calibre8">back</em> to
      Hogwarts. Are you the one who sent me the cards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Cards?" Mr. Lupin asked, confused. "No, I never sent you
      anything. But I can send back you to Hogwarts, after I make a few
      checks that it's really you." He started speaking incantations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry wasn't just going to leave it at that. "Where am I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Polyfluis Reverso!</em>" said the man. "This is the
      Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix.
      <em class="calibre8">Metamorphido!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The headquarters of Dumbledore's allies? But... Santa Claus had
      always seemed <em class="calibre8">opposed</em> to Dumbledore. And Professor Snape
      had said that the portkey just led to an empty house. But he was
      <em class="calibre8">in</em> the order of the phoenix, so he must have known
      more...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could <em class="calibre8">Snape</em> have been his anonymous ally? But Snape was
      supposedly loyal to Professor Dumbledore, or at least had been so
      at the start of the year, when Harry had been sent his father's
      cloak with the first note from Santa Claus. And why would
      <em class="calibre8">he</em> have James's invisibility cloak? He had hated James,
      and Lily had not spoken to him since they were in school. Besides,
      Dumbledore had told Harry to use this portkey. He must have known,
      too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">If you see a plot, look at who ends up benefiting, and
      assume it was the intended result.</em> That was one of Draco's
      lessons. He had never really used it, but, he realized now, he
      should have. The note with the Invisibility Cloak had told him to
      be suspicious of Dumbledore. The later note had repeated those
      warnings – for strange reasons, Dumbledore was not the kind of man
      who would take a child's heirloom away, no phoenix would accept
      that. If Dumbledore did evil, then it was because the war had
      driven him to weigh his actions in logical, heartless calculations.
      And so, the only effect of the vain warning with the cloak was that
      Harry had ended up trusting Dumbledore <em class="calibre8">more</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Veritas Occulum!</em> And that's the last one, you really
      are who you seem to be. Would you like to go back now or is there
      anything you want to discuss first?" The man's face showed concern.
      Of course, he would not have expected Dumbledore's pet hero, who
      was supposed to be carefully guarded in the school, to pop in all
      of a sudden.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He really should go, if he wanted to meet Dumbledore half an
      hour before his departure of Azkaban and still have five hours of
      his Time-Turner remaining just in case. But he also wanted to
      know.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You were a friend of my father's, right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you recognize this cloak?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Mr. Lupin said. "I've been under it quite a few
      times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know whether Professor Dumbledore had it in his
      possession when my father died?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Lupin frowned. "Yes, he did. Didn't he say so when he gave
      it to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Why me?</em> Harry thought with a mental groan. But instead
      he just shrugged, and said: "The Headmaster asked me to meet him in
      his office. Do you think you could send me there?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why am I not surprised to see you here, old meddler?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus Dumbledore had been waiting for her in the corridor. "I
      care for the child. And it seems that your Aurors have the
      situation well under control."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That remains to be seen." Amelia moved her wand. "<em class="calibre8">Expecto
      Patronum.</em> Tell Scrimgeour to pass the warning to all
      patrolling crews that an intruder might still be in Azkaban. Make
      sure <em class="calibre8">no one</em> goes in or out without permission."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You believe that she had help?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She had an invisibility cloak. A special one, apparently, that
      kept Dementors from affecting her. It disappeared from her cell in
      the five minutes between her escape and the cell being
      searched."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah. Do you mean <em class="calibre8">the</em> Cloak of Invisibility? For that is
      the only one I know of which might have any such power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gave him a searching look. <em class="calibre8">That was quite an
      inference.</em> "What do you know about that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Invisibility Cloak of Ignotus Peverell, long-since lost
      track of, is one of the three Deathly Hallows. Many properties are
      ascribed to it, although few confirmed. Depending on the source you
      read, it hides the wearer even from Death's gaze, provides
      impenetrable shields and stops aging in whoever wears it. I would
      not believe those so lightly, but almost certain is that it does
      not degenerate with time, cannot be directly targeted by magic,
      knows its owner, and, some way or other, always finds a way back to
      him or her. I have not heard anything about Dementors, but such an
      ability would certainly not be incongruent with the various tales
      of its powers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If <em class="calibre8">that</em> were true... Could the cloak have somehow taken
      itself back to its owner? Or was Dumbledore just trying to sell her
      onto some idea to hide the far more obvious truth?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You suspect me?" the old wizard asked at her searching
      look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would not put it past you to help an innocent child, no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I appreciate the sentiment, Amelia, but in this instance I am
      quite guiltless. Please, feel free to search me. I do not have the
      Cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would not ask –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you think. I do not mind it, and it might be better to
      clear this up immediately. I realize that I <em class="calibre8">am</em> an
      uninvited intruder in this place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, and started her incantations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So tell me," the old wizard asked carefully. "Is there any
      chance, for the girl?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know the law, Albus. <em class="calibre8">Any</em> escape from Azkaban is
      punished with the Dementor's Kiss. <em class="calibre8">No excuses.</em> There won't
      even be a trial. The only reason not to do it on the spot is that
      we may need to interrogate her further, and that the only Dementor
      left in Britain is the one we keep in the Ministry. The certainty
      of the Kiss for any escape is one of the most important things that
      keeps the prisoners and their friends from ever contemplating
      escape: the knowledge that worse is possible, and likely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She did not mean to escape, I think. Harry Potter seemed
      convinced that she was going to die."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Intent is not the point. She left her cell, so she <em class="calibre8">did</em>
      escape." She sighed. "I want the girl to lose her soul as little as
      you do, Albus. I don't think we have ever done that to someone with
      a phoenix, let alone a child who shouldn't have been here to begin
      with. But unless the honor of a Noble House is involved, my hands
      are tied. I don't suppose you have kept any Noble connections
      hidden?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None. I am certain that the young scion of Potter would accept
      her service if she were to swear to him, but –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– the Wizengamot will not accept that if the contract was not
      in place at the time of the crime," she finished his line. "But
      speaking of Harry Potter, young Miss Granger <em class="calibre8">did</em> seem to
      believe that he was the one who gave her the wand and the
      cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would have him executed too?" the old wizard spoke with a
      pained voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No. In fact, I don't think we can prove anything against him.
      And since the Boy-Who-Lived enjoys a certain popularity, a mere
      accusation before the Wizengamot will not lead to a conviction, no
      matter how much pressure Lord Malfoy might apply. But if he were
      indeed involved, if we could <em class="calibre8">prove</em> that, then he could ask
      to have his case brought before the Wizengamot. And in that case, I
      suppose that I, as the Head of the Department of Magical Law
      Enforcement, could judge the girl's crime to be inextricably linked
      to the boy's, and relinquish the right of judging her to them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They walked in silence through the last corridor. The old wizard
      looked conflicted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You consider asking him for a confession?" She wasn't sure
      whether she wanted it. The hope of seeing the girl released, or at
      least saved from the gruesome fate of the Dementor's Kiss, was
      enough to make her wish for it. But what would the two children's
      chances be? If they involved the boy, the most likely path would
      lead to <em class="calibre8">two</em> innocent souls being lost.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It would be foolish to the extreme," the Hogwarts Headmaster
      bit. "We need him; if anything the last week has made that clear.
      Lord Voldemort has returned, and he has started lashing out, for
      purposes unknown. Harry Potter is the only one who has a chance of
      defeating him for good." He sighed. "But he has made it clear that
      he does not wish to follow my command, and he cares about the
      Granger girl more than anything in the world. Who am I to make the
      choice for him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He gestured with his wand, and the silver phoenix sprang into
      existence. "Go to Harry Potter," he instructed, "and say this:
      Harry. As you feared, Miss Granger has attacked Azkaban, and
      destroyed all its Dementors. She has survived, given testimony, and
      will likely be executed before the weekend is over. There will be
      no trial, as she is no part of a Noble House. Tell me, Mr. Potter.
      Were you involved in this?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
