<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 99: Day of the Dementors, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s19" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 99: Day of the Dementors</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry? You must wake up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry groggily opened his eyes, and looked at the aged face of
      the Headmaster. It felt like he'd hardly gone to bed at all. "Wazza
      time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Quarter past six in the morning. Get up, and get dressed.
      Hurry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Six?" Indignation rose, together with a slight headache.
      "Professor, I need at <em class="calibre8">least</em> four more hours of sleep."
      After the trial, the Aurors had returned his pouch, cloak and wand,
      but not his Time-Turner. Time-Turners were a privilege, not a
      right, and it would probably require some negotiation before they
      returned one to a boy who had confessed as blatant a disregard for
      the law as Harry had. So Harry, exhausted though he was after all
      the events of the day, hadn't managed to fall asleep until one in
      the morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You do not have that luxury today. I already gave you as long
      as I could."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The words hardly penetrated his muddled consciousness, but there
      was something in the old wizard's tone... "What happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will know soon. But tell me this, if you would: whom did
      you teach your Patronus spell to besides Miss Granger? Was there
      more than one other? Many lives may depend on this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sleep fell off him and was replaced by terror. <em class="calibre8">What is
      going on?</em> He registered, now, that the old wizard was looking
      extremely serious this morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Padma Patil and Lesath Lestrange," he whispered. He couldn't
      think of what else to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Lestrange?" The Headmaster looked briefly surprised, but almost
      immediately regained his composure. "That's good news. I shall wake
      the others now, and then come back to bring you to my office."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ancient wizard waited until Harry had pushed away the
      blankets and started to move – probably to see that he wasn't going
      to fall asleep again – and then disappeared in a burst of
      flame.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Five minutes later, the four of them stood together in the
      Headmaster's Office. Sleepy, worried faces gazed around. Lesath
      looked very out of place. At least the headache was gone, after
      Xare had chirped a few notes of phoenix song.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a wave of the Headmaster's wand, two large sofas appeared.
      "Sit," he suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In a bit over an hour time," he spoke gravely, once they had
      obeyed, "the man you know as Professor Quirrell will strike again."
      He glanced at Lesath as he said this, perhaps wondering how the boy
      would react if he knew that Professor Quirrell was the same man
      whom his parents had sworn their lives to. "Almost every single
      person on earth will hear an announcement in their own language,
      revealing the true nature of Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gasped. She had been there, so she understood. Harry
      felt his heart sinking deeply. <em class="calibre8">How many Dementors exist in the
      world?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait, how do you know that?" Padma asked. The Headmaster nodded
      to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This," he said, taking a Time-Turner from his pocket and
      showing them all, "is a Time-Turner. Every turn allows you to go
      back in time one hour, but there are limitations. No person, object
      or even information can go back further than six hours, no matter
      how many Time-Turners are used. A single Time-Turner cannot be used
      more than six times in any twenty-four hour period, and a single
      person cannot go back more than six times in such a period. And
      most importantly, you <em class="calibre8">cannot</em> change the past. Doing
      anything that would cause a contradiction will have great and
      terrible consequences. Time has Laws, even if we do not fully
      comprehend how they work."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't understand," Lesath said. "Why are you telling us this?
      What's the problem?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you know the truth about Dementors, you cannot cast the
      normal Patronus Charm anymore, even if you could do it before,"
      Harry explained.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," he said, eyes widening. "Gotcha."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So I guess..." Padma said. "You want <em class="calibre8">us</em> to cast our
      Patronuses?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed. With ordinary wizards no longer able to protect
      themselves and others from their power, Dementors are without a
      doubt the most dangerous and uncontainable creatures in existence.
      They need to be destroyed as quickly as possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you only telling us this <em class="calibre8">now</em>?" Hermione
      demanded. "If you have time travel... we could have been destroying
      Dementors five hours ago!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard sighed wearily. "You could not. As I said, time
      has Laws, and it seems that our former Defense Professor has taken
      some precautions to back us into a corner. Madam Bones, when she
      heard the message, instantly resolved to warn you and Mr. Potter
      before it happened, but she found that it would create a
      contradiction. She couldn't go back further than four hours at all,
      which suggests that Quirrell has acquired a Time-Turner of his own
      somehow, or at least gathered information from the future before
      sending his message. It took her almost fifteen minutes to
      formulate a plan that allowed her to go back in time at all, as
      most of the preparations she considered were blocked. She
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> shield her Aurors from hearing the message, but
      another note from the future has already informed us that those
      protections will fail. The main thing she could do was to rally a
      number of people, who have been working through the night to
      prepare for the moments <em class="calibre8">after</em> the message is given.
      Hopefully, our precautions will make the inevitable less of a
      disaster, though disaster it will certainly be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione swallowed. "People are going to die, aren't they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster bowed his head. "Thousands, if we are
      <em class="calibre8">very</em> lucky. Billions, if we are not."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Billions?</em>" Hermione gasped, sounding horrified.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No way," Harry said flatly. "Quirrell would never orchestrate
      an extinction event. There is no conceivable benefit to him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard raised an eyebrow. "Are you quite sure of
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well... no."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster nodded. "We don't know what he wants, so we
      cannot count on anything. I suspects he went into it with future
      knowledge, knowing that whatever goal he aims to achieve will be
      furthered, or at least not harmed, by today's events. But that will
      most likely not prevent massive casualties. Children, I must ask...
      Will you help? I do not pretend it will be easy – in fact, despite
      our precautions this will almost certainly put your lives in danger
      – but can I ask you to fight today for the sake of the world?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Hermione promptly answered. Harry also nodded,
      although a sick knot of fear twisted in his stomach. <em class="calibre8">How many
      Dementors are there on earth?</em> Would four of them be enough?
      Just the Dementors around Azkaban had nearly killed Hermione, and
      that was with a phoenix to help her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course I'll do what I can..." Padma was saying with a
      tremble in her voice. "But I've only done the spell when there
      weren't any Dementors around, I don't know whether I can..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can," Harry assured her. He radiated confidence for her
      sake, even if he did not feel it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath shifted awkwardly and glanced at Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh, right. He thinks I'm his Lord.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's your choice, Lesath," he said gently. The others might
      draw strange conclusions from this particular exchange, but that
      could be dealt with later. Like, <em class="calibre8">after</em> they had stopped
      half the world civilization from getting killed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Are you mad?</em> His Slytherin side hissed at him. <em class="calibre8">Why
      should you leave him the choice? His freedom and even life are</em>
      not <em class="calibre8">worth the death of, say, a million strangers. And if it's
      going to be hard with four people, it's going to be pretty damn
      near impossible to do this with three.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This might well kill all of us,</em> Gryffindor pointed out.
      <em class="calibre8">The choice to sacrifice his life should be his own.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Just as long as you're prepared to override his decision
      after all if he refuses,</em> Slytherin said coldly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I <em class="calibre8">want</em> to destroy Dementors," Lesath said, with an
      urgency to his voice. "But I also want... Could I ask... Can I
      visit my father, after this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard look down on him with a gaze of sympathy.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He will not recognize you," he pointed out quietly. "But if you
      want it regardless, I am sure that it can be arranged. In fact,
      Azkaban will have to be redesigned anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About that –" Harry began, but Dumbledore shot him a quick,
      sharp look.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You cannot make demands for doing what I know perfectly well
      you will do anyway. Besides, we cannot gather the Wizengamot in the
      next hour to settle on any kind of binding deal. So shall we have
      this discussion later?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, just don't think I'll forget about that. But on
      behalf of Lesath... Could I ask that his mother's life is spared,
      should she be caught? I'm not asking that she goes free, I know
      that she's a bit too dangerous to just let go. But unless
      <em class="calibre8">she</em> desires otherwise, she should be left alive, free from
      mental or physical torture, and her son allowed to visit."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lesath perked up. The old wizard frowned. "That is a rather
      large request, Mr. Potter. I sympathize with your viewpoint, but I
      am not sure that Amelia is going to agree to that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are asking Lesath to risk his life," Harry patiently
      pointed out. "He is going to save thousands of people today, isn't
      he? The least you can do is grant him this one life in exchange.
      Besides, Bellatrix might not in fact have been given much choice
      about leaving her cell, so punishing her for the escape would be
      unfair."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard gave him a long, hard look, then glanced at
      Lesath, who was looking very hopeful all of a sudden. Finally, he
      nodded slowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can make no promises. But if that is indeed your wish,
      Lesath, I shall see what I can do. Now, can we move on to the day's
      planning?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia Bones, apparently, had got some of her Aurors to send
      Patronuses to known phoenix owners and inform them of the impending
      disaster. Of course they had all been willing to help (those who
      understood the message, anyway – she had had little luck
      communicating with the Swahili witch), and several had immediately
      come over to the DLME. Those, she had quietly told about the nature
      of Dementors and Hermione's now-unlocked explanation of how to cast
      the True Patronus Charm, but none had been able to do it. She had
      also worked on getting the cooperation of several major
      governments, and Aurors and Healers in all countries had been
      prepared for duty, although they had not been told what for.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were pockets of Dementors in most countries in the world.
      In some places, like France, they were contained by constant
      Patronuses and never given any victims to drain of life. Likely,
      these Dementors would be very, very aggressive when their guardians
      were no longer able to contain them. In some places, like Azkaban,
      they were controlled but <em class="calibre8">used</em>. Some governments or
      organizations employed them as weapons against each other; in other
      places they were deliberately given an area of land with Muggles to
      use as they wished, with neither Dementors nor humans allowed to
      leave. These Dementors were the only ones who regularly got to use
      the Kiss, but they might still turn on their guardians given the
      opportunity. In yet other places, they were allowed to dwell in
      dark, filthy places, but kept under control with promises not to
      interfere with their feeding on passersby, provided they did not
      use the Kiss. There were also loose Dementors, not under anyone's
      control, in more abandoned areas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had ten minutes, at most, to deal with the most urgent
      threats. Maybe half an hour more, if they were lucky, before some
      of the Dementors kept at bay with promises would realize the change
      in their situation. It was entirely possible that Quirrell had also
      put motions into place to inform the Dementors, in which case they
      wouldn't even have that. For many of the smaller pockets of
      Dementors, their exact location was unknown; those were most likely
      to be found by following the trail of their victims.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In discussion with Albus Dumbledore, Amelia had made a complete
      plan of action. Each of the True Patronus casters would be matched
      with a phoenix owner (except Hermione, who would just be matched
      with a powerful wizard), and given a Time-Turner whose chain was
      large enough to transport two people. The phoenix would keep them
      alive while vanquishing Dementors; the owner could knock them out
      if they seemed to lose control. Seven special rooms had been
      arranged in the DMLE where they could come back after each
      assignment; at the end of an hour, they could go to the next room
      and loop back in time. If other True Patronus casters could be
      found, they would go back in time to the second or later rooms and
      join the four. The door to each room would indicate how many
      Patronus casters were in there, and Amelia Bones would coordinate
      all warnings that came in. She would give assignments to whoever
      was chronologically first, passing them as notes without knowing
      who the assignment was going to. By keeping the plan unchangeable
      and limiting information flow to the strictly necessary, the risks
      of messing with time were contained, at least, even if they were
      still significant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have twenty-four of you for one hour," Dumbledore reminded
      them all. "Assuming you survive, and nothing goes wrong.
      Unfortunately, we cannot count on either, and we <em class="calibre8">must</em>
      avoid risking a contradiction that would block you from going back
      in time at all. We are already violating the standard procedures
      for dealing with time significantly: you will be interacting with
      your future selves by following your assignments, since if your
      future self had not handled the more urgent assignments, you would
      be receiving those instead. Avoid <em class="calibre8">any</em> further interaction
      with yourself. If you are wounded or otherwise in trouble, you must
      go to one of the assigned rooms in St. Mungo's, the Great Hall of
      Hogwarts, or whichever place makes sense to you as long as no
      younger version of you has been to the same place. If you find that
      going back to the second room would cause a contradiction, go to
      the third, and so on. If you cannot go back at all, go to the
      seventh room, where Amelia will give you instructions to deal with
      the remaining Dementors. Your assigned helper will take charge, but
      you must be prepared to help yourself – and them – if things go
      wrong. If your phoenix owner dies or becomes incapacitated, or if
      your phoenix needs to be reborn, send for help from me or anyone at
      Hogwarts; we will come for you, and you will be assigned a new
      assistant."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not coming?" Padma asked, looking meaningfully at
      Fawkes. The old wizard shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot. I have gone back in time the full six hours
      yesterday, and no twenty-four hours have passed since. I shall do
      what I can from here, for whichever situations might arise. Do you
      have any further questions?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They shook their heads.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster waved his hand, and a table filled with all the
      best breakfast foods appeared. The House Elves, apparently, had
      been in on the preparations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then, eat. Your day shall be wearying; you will need all your
      strength."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Monday, April 20th 1992, 07:29am.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall was overlooking the four House tables at
      breakfast. Children chattered, ate, and showed each other holiday
      pictures. Newspapers with the (heavily censored) story of
      yesterday's trial were passed around. The atmosphere was relaxed.
      Even most of the staff had no idea of what was about to happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She waited, tensely, as the seconds ticked by. These children
      were her responsibility now; Albus would be busy in the Ministry.
      He had urged her to do whatever she could to maintain the peace and
      stop panic from breaking out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even expecting it as she was, the voice still managed to take
      her by surprise. Dry, humorless, and with crystal clarity, the
      words formed in her head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">DEMENTORS ARE A PHYSICAL EMBODIMENT OF DEATH. YOU CANNOT
      FIGHT THEM ANYMORE. YOU CANNOT RUN. TODAY, THEY WILL ATTACK.
      PREPARE TO DIE.</strong></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cutlery, cups and photographs fell clattering to the table or
      the floor. Students gasped. Some were jumping up, others sat rooted
      to the benches. Even she was trembling. Albus hadn't <em class="calibre8">quite</em>
      given the details of what the message would entail, but of course
      the less you knew about the future the better.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the Gryffindor table, Dean Thomas shouted "<em class="calibre8">Expecto
      Patronum</em>." He had been among the few first-year students who
      had managed to produce a corporeal Patronus before, both with and
      without a Dementor present. But no light sprang forward this time.
      He stared at his wand in horror, even as all eyes in the Great Hall
      had turned to look at him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then it really started to sink in. There was shouting.
      People jumped up from their places. Some students even started
      screaming. Others tried to cast the Patronus Charm, but failed.
      Some of the Muggleborns fell on their knees and started to
      pray.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With three loud blasts of her wand, some semblance of order was
      restored.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Stay calm, everyone," she ordered crisply, appearing perfectly
      calm. (She was good at that, and the students needed it now.) "You
      are in no immediate danger. Remember, there are no Dementors in the
      British Isles anymore. Miss Granger took care of that." She
      couldn't say that sensible people were already working on the
      situation, because there was no way that she could <em class="calibre8">know</em>
      that without Time-Turners, but... "And I am certain that Dementors
      in other countries cannot just get to people and attack everyone
      immediately. They take time to move too, and most are kept away
      from busy areas. This should give the government plenty of time to
      do something about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does it mean?" second-year Marietta yelled. "What was that
      voice?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It seems," she answered, her voice raised over the cries that
      were starting up again, "that our Defense Professor has some dark
      motive involving Dementors. He pulled a similar stunt yesterday,
      but Mr. Potter dealt with the situation." She let that hang in the
      air for a moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Heads swiveled towards the Ravenclaw table. "Where is he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter and Miss Granger have been summoned to a meeting
      with Madam Bones, to discuss some of yesterday's events before
      class." It was the story Albus had told her to use, should anyone
      ask where the two famous children were. "Given Madam Bones's
      reputation for efficiency, I suspect both of them have already been
      recruited into a DMLE team dealing with the situation. But do
      please recall that Miss Granger has a phoenix, and in the extremely
      unlikely event that a Dementor should come here, she could be on
      the spot within seconds."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It helped, she guessed, but there was still a lot of muttering
      and fidgeting, still worried looks everywhere. The children didn't
      seem very comfortable with these reassurances. And they shouldn't
      be – even if <em class="calibre8">they</em> were not in any real danger, their
      families <em class="calibre8">were</em>, especially those with relatives abroad, or
      in the DMLE. In the wider world, disaster was happening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What they needed, besides promises of protection, was something
      to do. Something <em class="calibre8">they</em> could do to make it better.
      Something to not feel completely helpless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In fact," she stated clearly, and waited for the worst of the
      noises to die down again. "There are many omitted details in the
      news coverage of yesterday's events. One of the things that hasn't
      been mentioned was Hermione Granger's explanation of how the spell
      to destroy Dementors is cast. It is harder than the normal Patronus
      Charm, but perhaps it is still worth trying to learn it." This,
      too, was her task today. Passing the children the True Patronus
      Charm was unlikely to help: even Padma had taken a week, Harry had
      said before Dumbledore took the children off to the Ministry, and
      he wasn't here now to guide them. The Ministry and Albus would be
      focusing their efforts on people like Nicolas Flamel, who had a
      demonstrated affinity for this kind of spell. But there were
      hundreds of young people in the school, and they would be fools
      indeed not to give the children a chance to learn. At the very
      least it would distract them from worrying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took a deep breath as the Hall fell completely silent to
      listen to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The spell is called the True Patronus Charm..."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
