<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 101: Knowing the Enemy, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s21" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 101: Knowing the Enemy</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Tuesday noon. Harry and Hermione were seated in twin chairs in
      the Headmaster's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why did you call us here, Professor?" Hermione asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I need your advice on how to deal with the consequences
      of yesterday's events."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She still looked tired, Harry thought. "Why aren't Padma and
      Lesath here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is some hope that they might yet be saved from being
      heroes," Professor Dumbledore replied with a slight smile. "For you
      two, I'm afraid, it is entirely too late."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione snorted sadly. Harry, however, fixed him with a cold
      glare. "Have you told all concerned parties that they are to stop
      murdering the remaining Dementor-victims?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard nodded, no longer smiling. "I have passed on your
      request to leave them for Muggle doctors to examine, and most
      Ministries have agreed. As the majority of the remaining victims
      are now in the care of their relatives or hospitals, there is
      little to be won by forcing the issue regardless. Given the scale
      of the situation, covering up their state is as impossible as it is
      futile."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How many..." Hermione began, trailing off as she didn't seem to
      dare finish the question.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Worldwide, a little more than half a million people have died,"
      the old wizard answered sadly. "And yet more are severely wounded.
      The brunt of the death toll did not come directly from Dementors,
      but rather was a result of the panic and chaos they caused. Even
      Britain was not spared, for, while there were no Dementors here,
      Voldemort has used the distraction to strike directly. It seems
      that in most cases, his damage was done with very little effort:
      emotional spells to cause panic, blasting curses, a few well-placed
      Confundus Charms... Although there have been some direct attacks
      with the Killing Curse as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">What?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster grimaced bitterly. "It appears that he did not
      want those living in our country to feel secure while their foreign
      peers were in danger, a motive in which he has succeeded quite
      thoroughly. Muggles in Britain were hit <em class="calibre8">harder</em> than those
      elsewhere in the world, at least in the total number of casualties
      and destroyed property. And yet, even now, the Ministry will not
      accept that Voldemort has returned. At least they have started
      taking my admonitions about our Defense Professor seriously. I
      suppose it doesn't signify much how they choose to name him, as
      long as they are equally on their guard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. 'Quirrell' was easier than 'You-Know-Who'
      anyway.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Meanwhile," the Headmaster continued. "The representatives of
      major Muggle governments who were aware of the existence of magic –
      that is, most of them – have stepped forward and told the world
      what they know. There is video footage of Dementor attacks and
      wizards casting spells. This is far beyond what Memory Charms can
      clean up. The International Statute of Secrecy is at an end."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Good</em>," Harry bit. "Getting rid of that was long
      overdue, and now maybe we can help the thousands of wounded of
      yesterday's disaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard just looked at him sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are young in the ways of the world, Harry. Do you really
      believe that life would be better for Muggles if they knew of
      us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you know how many people die of cancer each year?" Harry
      threw back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard sighed. "Too many. Too many to be conscionable,
      yet also too many for us to help. Do you realize how large the
      Muggle world is compared to ours? And how many things they would
      ask of us? Most forms of cancer can be cured by magic, but the
      operation is far from trivial, and the handful of qualified Healers
      we could spare would suffice only to serve a fraction of those in
      need, even assuming their services are not required for other
      diseases at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's still better to cure some people than none!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard shook his head. "In the short term, perhaps, but
      you fail to consider the next generation. Magical healing will
      naturally gravitate towards the richest part of the population.
      With a magical cure available to those who can pay for it, far less
      effort will be expended into finding non-magical treatments. In the
      long run, new development stalls, and almost everyone is worse off
      than they could have been without our help. Do you think the
      vaccines whose praise your father sang yesterday could ever have
      been invented while witches and wizards were still providing
      healing for the royalty and nobility?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're saying," Harry summarized angrily, "that you want to
      let people die when they can easily be saved, just to give the big
      pharmaceutical corporations a greater incentive to keep developing
      medicines?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Actually, he has a point,</em> Slytherin pointed out.
      <em class="calibre8">Those corporations invest in medical research because they
      expect a huge pay-off in the end. Whittling away on that might
      cause all kinds of issues. Can we get an economist in
      here?<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sounds so harsh," Hermione said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It <em class="calibre8">is</em> harsh," the old wizard agreed. "But this is the
      lesson history has taught us over and over. You might not have
      covered it in History of Magic yet, but the International Statute
      of Secrecy was actually preceded by many smaller, local pacts, in
      times when Muggles did not travel much. Thus, we have seen the same
      pattern many times over. Within a hundred years of the secrecy pact
      – when all those who have seen magic with their own eyes have
      either gone to their graves or been sworn to secrecy – Muggle
      society flourishes. With the loss of faith in the supernatural,
      Muggles start attempting to control the world they live in, the
      grasp of religion weakens, and equality between the social classes
      rises. The rich remain privileged, of course, but without wizards
      backing their claims on lands and people, they are no longer seen
      as <em class="calibre8">inherently</em> better than the poor. Of course some places
      have grown faster than others, and even now, there are still many
      countries left behind, but I also understand that Muggle
      politicians and organizations are working on that. In two
      centuries, perhaps, all humans might come to live a reasonable
      life. Or so it would have been, but for yesterday's events."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sighed again, piercing Harry with his eyes. "Now do you see
      what we risk losing? What it might <em class="calibre8">do</em>, to the fabric of
      society, if the magical and non-magical worlds are to merge again?
      Because the same is known to happen in reverse. There are other
      tales, although fewer and older, of wizards joining a Muggle
      community, and invariably poverty grows over the next
      generations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That <em class="calibre8">has</em> to be avoidable," Harry argued. "We have
      science now, and science doesn't just turn off when you know about
      magic. I'm sure if we plan this and organize properly, we can avoid
      wrecking the Muggle world and maybe also drag the wizarding world
      into the twentieth century."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster shrugged helplessly. "I'm not sure how much
      opportunity we will have to do that, with tensions being as they
      are. With the casualties we saw yesterday... It will take all our
      efforts to avoid descending into war. Especially here in Britain,
      where the people's feelings have been primed by the magical attacks
      last week, and where no saving grace exists in Muggle perceptions.
      Abroad, their opinions are mixed. There is understandable anger;
      Professor Snape has told me that the television shows many videos
      of the Dementor-attacks themselves, of the aftermaths, and,
      unfortunately, also of wizards killing the Dementor-victims, which
      the Muggles naturally do not perceive as the act of kindness it was
      intended to be. But even as many Muggles are giving in to fear
      mongering and yelling for retribution, there is also coverage of
      wizards doing emergency healing, and of you children casting your
      Patronuses. There are interviews with some of those who experienced
      the feeling first hand, and they mostly express the belief that you
      were helping them. Here in Britain, however, we do not have that
      counter. As all our efforts were focused abroad, the news here is
      almost exclusively repeating the few images of a witch or wizard
      doing destructive magic, along with images of the aftermath of
      Voldemort's attacks: the body counts, fallen buildings and heavily
      wounded eyewitnesses. Add to that last week's row between the prime
      minister and the Minister of Magic over the way we dealt with those
      first two attacks..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "How <em class="calibre8">did</em> we deal with those
      attacks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard looked pained. "After the Inferi attack, an
      enormous fire was staged to destroy what evidence there was. Most
      of Easingwold was burned to the ground, officially by a pyromaniac
      who contracted the 'virus' and went crazy. All corpses were burnt,
      of course, regardless of the preferences of the families. The
      Muggle government sent help in the rebuilding when we left, but the
      damage is vast, and Cornelius has been unwilling to contribute to
      the rebuilding, saying we have done enough. Nor could he do much to
      help with the backlash against the Muggle government for the rather
      implausible story – certainly the prime minister was not pleased
      with the inevitable political fallout for being forced to speak
      such transparent lies. In the school, over my protests, the
      Obliviators staged a gas leak where all the children and teachers
      died. I barely managed to keep them from being killed; as it is,
      the children and teachers in question are being kept apart under
      Ministry custody for the moment, and are planned to be
      Memory-Charmed and, in the children's case, given up for adoption
      in the coming years. We can return them to their parents now, but I
      fear irrevocable damage to our reputation has been done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry said, his eyes hard. <em class="calibre8">Just what kind of
      unspeakable, evil morons are running our government?</em> "So there
      is no time to lose. You must step forward, apologize, return those
      children, offer what help we can with the wounded people and
      damaged property, and explain just what the hell is going on. And
      you'd better do it now!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I cannot speak for all of magical Britain," the old wizard
      sighed. "Much less the entire world, and I would be breaking
      several international treaties by providing an explanation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ask for forgiveness, not permission," Harry suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I do that," the Headmaster said gravely, "my political
      opponents will perceive it as me making a grab for more power by
      setting myself up as the spokesman for our world, without even
      their consent. They will never stand for it, and will deliberately
      go against what I say. As such, it would be worse than useless: it
      would be destructive. And thus we bicker rather than stepping
      forward as I agree we absolutely must. I suppose this is one point
      where Voldemort was right, little though I like saying it. We
      suffer from not being united."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And that is what he wanted us to conclude," Harry nodded. "He
      wants Britain to be united under a strong leader, and he wants me
      to be that leader. That's at least a part of why he did it. It's
      not like I hadn't seen <em class="calibre8">something</em> like this coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione, who had been staring open-mouthedly at the two of
      them, spluttered at this. "Seen this coming? What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You didn't tell her?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster shook his head. "Not that part."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What part?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned to Hermione. "You know he's been mentoring me. I'm
      pretty sure, from all he said and did, that he wants me to lead the
      country. He tried to convince me to set up this scenario where
      You-Know-Who returns and I defeat him, which would make me a great
      hero in the eyes of the magical world. Don't look at me like that,
      I told him I didn't want to do it. So that's why he got you sent to
      Azkaban, to force me to play along so I would be able to manipulate
      Lucius Malfoy. I still refused, so I've been expecting him to set
      up another scenario where I <em class="calibre8">couldn't</em> refuse to be the
      hero. And that seems to be pretty much what happened
      yesterday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She frowned, thinking about it. "But then why would he attack in
      person? He could have known that you were too busy saving people on
      the other side of the world."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why indeed," asked Dumbledore, raising his eyebrows.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," Harry confessed. "I wondered at first whether he
      was just setting himself up as terrifying, but then it doesn't make
      sense that he's mostly attacking Muggle settlements, which most
      people in the magical world aren't even going to care about. And
      yesterday, too, the casualties were almost entirely among
      Muggles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't think he ever liked Muggles much," Hermione said
      timidly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry agreed. "He fears them. He told me about the atomic
      bomb and how scientists came close to destroying the world. And
      then there was his Christmas... speech..." He fell silent, as he
      suddenly understood what Riddle was planning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But if he fears them, then why is he antagonizing them?"
      Dumbledore wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He <em class="calibre8">wants</em> war," Harry breathed. "He thinks we can
      win."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The pieces of the puzzle fell into place with crystal clarity.
      "He's terrified of what Muggles might do, intentional or not. With
      nuclear weapons, there's too much power in the hands of a few
      people, people who have never proved themselves responsible. If
      another world war breaks out, wizards will be annihilated along
      with everyone else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This does not explain why he would push for war," the old
      wizard pointed out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's pushing for war <em class="calibre8">in one country</em>. The Muggle world
      is not united in itself, it never has been, and as you just said,
      all the worst aggravation has been here. There's no way a 'war of
      extermination' initiated by the British government, or even the
      European Union, would actually work: we could hide out, or flee to
      other countries. What's more, they couldn't really use their worst
      weapons against us, because magical people tend to live among
      Muggles – for example, the Ministry of Magic is located in London,
      they're not exactly going to throw a bomb on it. No, that's never
      what he was afraid of. What he fears is far more realistic: Muggle
      countries fighting each other. Several nations have been on the
      brink of war for decades. The cold war has pretty much ended, but
      all those weapons are still out there, it might be as simple as one
      crazy person getting elected into the wrong position to start it
      all off again!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The others were staring at him, but he ignored it, and went on
      thinking aloud. "He's been planning this for over twenty years. Set
      up an evil dark lord, create a hero to fight him, have everyone
      swear loyalty to this hero, cause the Muggles to declare war, and
      then use the hero to win that war. It would really be the war to
      end all wars, because it would end with an eternal magical
      dictatorship – perhaps even a benevolent dictatorship, Muggles
      wouldn't need to be oppressed <em class="calibre8">very</em> much to stop them from
      destroying the earth; you'd just want to destroy all weapons of
      mass destruction and keep some oversight over military activities
      and potentially destructive research. Monroe was meant to be the
      leader whose 'light mark' everyone would take. But it didn't work
      out, he wasn't <em class="calibre8">enough</em> of a storybook hero, so people
      preferred to stand back over actively following him. And he
      couldn't make the Dark Lord <em class="calibre8">worse</em>, because if Monroe was
      seen to be the weaker party even briefly, he would lose favor in
      the eyes of the world. So he retired Monroe, and made the Dark Lord
      the most terrible dark wizard to have ever lived. He didn't make
      him win, but <em class="calibre8">barely</em>, so that when he set up a new hero who
      defeated this dark lord without any help, it would seem to everyone
      like a great miracle."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You?" Hermione whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Me," Harry nodded. "I don't know whether there actually was a
      prophecy that he conveniently used, or whether he set that up too –
      he might have figured out how to manipulate the Department of
      Mysteries, or otherwise he deliberately had me 'defeat' him,
      leaving only a remnant of himself behind. But either way, he
      created a new hero, one who would defeat the greatest dark wizard
      who ever lived at <em class="calibre8">one years old</em>, who would become an icon
      before he ever did anything of his own, and who would then go on to
      do even greater things. Such a hero could gain the loyalty of
      Gryffindor and Slytherin alike, and might be able to unite the
      country if Muggles should become a real threat. He intended to be
      able to manipulate me, perhaps through possessing me as you hinted,
      Professor, or otherwise more directly, as he has done by teaching
      me. It is no coincidence that he came to Hogwarts this year."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This all sounds really dark and scary," Hermione piped up,
      after the silence had stretched a bit, "but this is Professor
      Quirrell we're talking about, right? He knows that you were raised
      by Muggles. He probably knew that your mother was Muggleborn, too,
      and there was always a pretty high chance that her family would be
      the ones to adopt you. Why would he think you'd be willing to fight
      a war against Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was a good point, but Harry immediately realized the
      answer. He looked at Professor Dumbledore. "You told me once that
      it was your fault that I had abusive parents. Did you
      <em class="calibre8">actually</em> plan for that to be the case?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster shifted uncomfortably. "I knew already that you
      had a loving family at the time, or I would not have brought it up.
      But when I sent you to live with your aunt, I did not know for
      certain what the outcome would be. I hadn't seen Petunia in many
      years, and Lily rarely spoke of her sister. The simple truth was
      that I feared for your life and your future. The remaining Death
      Eaters might well seek revenge on you for the fall of their leader.
      What is more, powerful, wealthy pureblood families were already
      filing for your adoption, either to use your fame for their own
      ends, or for yet darker purposes. The claim of a direct family
      member, even a Muggle, would supersede theirs, especially because
      it would offer the possibility for blood wards, which provide the
      best possible protection from harm. As Lord Voldemort had killed
      most of those family members in the months leading up to your
      parents' death, that left me with only one option."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah. So that's why Mum's parents are dead, too.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you assigned me to a sister who you knew to have always been
      unhappy, and who had been envious and hateful of Lily during her
      school years," he summarized flatly. "A sister who had every reason
      to hate magic because it had alienated her sister from her, and had
      been the cause of her parents' death very recently. You thought she
      would mistreat me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard looked grave. "I would not have allowed you to
      come to harm, for certain – the wards would stop any significant
      physical damage, and an old friend of mine, Mrs. Figg, agreed to
      move into the neighborhood to keep an additional eye on your
      well-being and your development. I confess that I considered it
      entirely possible that she would not love you, at least not from
      the start. I had planned to bribe or force her to take you, should
      it be necessary, but she did not at all protest at the request. I
      <em class="calibre8">am</em> really glad for how it turned out, Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And Professor Snape said that he never knew that Lily had
      made peace with her sister. If</em> he <em class="calibre8">was Voldemort's main
      source about the Potters, then Voldemort would not have known
      either.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you really have forced her?" Harry asked. It probably
      wasn't important, in the large scheme of things, but he couldn't
      just let this go. "I mean, that would not only be wildly immoral
      towards her, but would also have put me in a not exactly nurturing
      environment. Don't you have any idea what neglect and resentment in
      guardians can do to a child, even if they never <em class="calibre8">physically</em>
      hurt him?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster shook his head. "You might have had a rough
      childhood, but it would have been preferable over being given to
      the Jugsons, Notts, or even the Crouch or Fudge families. I could
      never have adopted you myself, being old and unmarried, and the
      Ministry does give preference to the older families in such
      matters."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess I can sort of see why you'd do that," Harry
      acknowledged. He would probably have been more upset if Mum and Dad
      had not, in actual fact, been wonderful parents. As it was, he
      could imagine why Dumbledore would have preferred him being
      neglected over being raised like Draco, or having a convenient
      childhood 'accident'. "But let's look at this from the point of
      view of an outsider, who didn't know Mum, only the relationship she
      and Lily <em class="calibre8">used</em> to have. She had every reason in the world
      to hate and fear magic. If that hadn't been resolved, being forced
      to take a young wizard in the house would have been very stressful
      for her, and it would be entirely reasonable if she couldn't bring
      herself to care for, or even bare to look at me. And for what you
      just said, You-Know-Who killed every near relative <em class="calibre8">except</em>
      for Mum. That has to have been deliberate. He knew that, given the
      choice between having me adopted by blood purists or mistreated,
      you'd choose the latter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore's eyes widened as Harry spoke, his face showing
      shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which tells us something about his original plan," Harry
      concluded. "I was meant to come to hate Muggles, and more. Even if
      nothing <em class="calibre8">truly</em> bad happened, he expected that I would be
      neglected, mistrusted, never been cared for, nor had any role
      models to show me normal human relations. I haven't really studied
      developmental psychology very well, but I'm pretty sure that that
      could have messed me up in all <em class="calibre8">kinds</em> of ways. Hating
      Muggles is just the first, I might have ended up hating other
      people altogether. Or being so morally and emotionally deprived
      that I ended up... well, like him, I guess, never caring for anyone
      at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster trembled a little. "Oh Merlin, what have I done?
      I didn't see, I didn't realize –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione shot Harry a look and carefully touched the old,
      gnarled hand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I didn't end up like that, though," Harry continued, following
      her cue to reassure the old man, although he wasn't entirely sure
      whether it was deserved. Something Quirrell had said came back to
      him. <em class="calibre8">Heroes and villains are just different sides of the same
      coin.</em> Growing up neglected and isolated was the best
      environment to nurture a hero, but it would also create severely
      broken people, maybe even psychopaths. Dumbledore might have
      understood the former, but he had missed the latter. "This was just
      what You-Know-Who <em class="calibre8">expected</em>, but in the end, everything
      actually turned out in the best possible way. I have wonderful
      parents, who willingly chose they have me, and they taught me
      plenty of empathy and respect for what Muggles have achieved. So,
      while in the future I think you really should discuss this sort of
      decision with someone like Professor McGonagall, there was no harm
      done."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man shook his head, looking pained. Finally, he
      recovered some of his composure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This time, perhaps, all turned out for the best, but there was
      another time, another child. I did not send him there, but I failed
      to recognize the signs..." He took a deep breath. "More than fifty
      years ago, I went to bring young Tom Riddle his Hogwarts acceptance
      letter. He lived in a Muggle orphanage. From what little I could
      gather at the time, it was a harsh place to grow up – not abusive,
      but quite devoid of love. There were simply too few staff members
      to bond with the children. He was also isolated from the other
      children, since they considered him, in their words, a 'freak'. He,
      I thought, deemed himself to be above them, but perhaps that was
      merely a response to their treatment of him." He sighed deeply. "It
      never occurred to me that he might simply never have learned to
      care for people. If it had, perhaps I would have acted differently.
      It might not have been too late, then, to find help for him. But
      instead, I merely kept his secrets, and never revealed to anyone
      what I learned of his home environment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom Riddle?" Harry asked, suspicion starting to dawn.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tom Marvolo Riddle," Dumbledore nodded. "He who would later
      become Lord Voldemort."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione looked startled. "That name wasn't in any of the
      books!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is not common knowledge," the old wizard replied. "Voldemort
      would not want it generally known that he is a half-blood – witch
      mother, Muggle father – a fact which, I believe, may be part of the
      reason why he distanced himself from his given name. I suspected
      the connection when I learned that Voldemort was a Parselmouth, a
      very rare talent which Tom had let slip he possessed the first time
      we met, before he knew just how rare it was. I managed to confirm
      the connection when Tom Riddle returned to Hogwarts to ask me for a
      teaching position, using a combination of blood magic and the
      Hogwarts wards. I did not dare reveal his identity in public,
      however,, as I did not have enough proof to convince any but those
      who would believe my word. It <em class="calibre8">might</em> damage Voldemort if I
      did so, but only a little; it certainly would strengthen the
      cultural prejudice against half-bloods and by extension
      Muggleborns."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered this. "Okay, I'll assume it accurate for now."
      <em class="calibre8">Well. Plausible at least.</em> "I'm not sure how important this
      could be, but I would like a full briefing on everything you know
      about this Tom Riddle at some point in the near future. For what
      you tell me, it certainly sounds like he intended for me to grow up
      exactly like he did, though. He must have noticed that this part of
      the plan hadn't worked out when he got to know me, but he works
      with what he has. So he's been training me, and playing on my
      affections to push me in the desired direction instead. Perhaps the
      original plan was to turn me into a small version of himself,
      backed by all sides of the political spectrum, leading the
      wizarding world through the war and then setting up a magical
      dictatorship because I would consider it the most sensible
      solution. With that not working out, the idea might be that I will
      have to win the war quickly in order to minimize casualties."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This sounds like a very risky plot," Dumbledore said with a
      frown. "There are many assumptions, many things which could go
      wrong. I would not expect the Ministry to lightly give you power,
      for instance. You are only eleven, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't pretend to have the full picture here," Harry argued.
      "Just the rough outline. He probably has plans for all kinds of
      eventualities, and he'll be working in the background to steer the
      war into the direction he wants. Perhaps the plot spans several
      years, and he's trained the Hogwarts children in Battle Magic to
      prepare for some final battle once the magical government gets
      desperate enough to pass military command to me. Or he's setting
      magical Britain up to <em class="calibre8">lose</em>, which will set the tone for a
      future war in other countries. That future war will probably happen
      anyway, come to think of it, even if we win here. Basically, I
      don't know exactly what he's doing, not the details. I really have
      to go and think about this properly for a few hours to see whether
      I can figure it out. I'm just fairly sure that it involves starting
      a war and having me win it one way or another, and that the end
      point is meant to be a global magical dictatorship, where Muggle
      scientists are no longer a threat – quite possibly because there is
      a lasting peace that means there won't be a need for further
      wars."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The endpoint, at least, sounds remarkably familiar," the old
      wizard said with a weak smile. "If what you say is true, then he is
      not so different from Grindelwald after all, or from those dark
      lords seeking to subjugate Muggles before him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Except that he does not necessarily seek to rule himself,"
      Harry pointed out. "And his motivation is born from fear rather
      than contempt. He wants to keep Muggles from dragging the magical
      world along in their fall as they destroy the planet. For that
      purpose, he needs the control over great destructive powers – like
      nuclear weapons – to be out of the hands of people who have never
      learned to be responsible with that sort of thing. Which, given
      their nature, probably means destroying them all, along with the
      facilities where they're made."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he intends for a wizard to rule the Muggle world, for their
      own good and ours," Dumbledore nodded. "He is <em class="calibre8">not</em> killing
      wantonly, he does not seek the destruction of all Muggles or even
      those politically opposed, he merely wishes for a magical
      dictatorship underneath a benevolent and powerful ruler. There was
      a time when I would have agreed with such a goal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione gasped in shock. The old man smiled at her. "Don't
      worry. I got wiser. And I daresay Harry is already much better than
      that." He pierced Harry with his deep blue eyes. "You do seem to
      understand him very well indeed, Harry Potter. Much like I
      understood Grindelwald, once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Yes. You thought he was my dark mirror, didn't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And is he?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess I see the point." Harry <em class="calibre8">had</em> thought about that
      a few times in the last week. "We think alike in many ways.
      Except... he's just <em class="calibre8">empty</em>. He doesn't care about other
      people at all. Like, he doesn't hurt people for fun, but if it
      helps him in some way, he doesn't mind what pain he causes either.
      And if he sees people doing stupid things, he just gets cynical
      about it, rather than trying to fix them. Or he suggests 'fixing'
      them with the Kiling Curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Whereas your Patronus spell is, as I gather it, almost its
      exact opposite," the old wizard suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry agreed. "I guess in the end, that's what makes the
      crucial difference between us. I put great value on other people's
      lives. He cares only about his own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The difference, in short, is your capacity for love?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. He had the feeling the Headmaster had suggested
      something like this months ago, and that Harry hadn't taken him
      very seriously at the time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well played, Professor. Well played."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster just smiled and winked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what do we do about this?" Hermione asked. (Harry noticed
      that she said <em class="calibre8">we</em>, which was good, even if she still seemed
      to want to rely on Dumbledore.) "It sounds like we can't win
      whatever we do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Little though I like suggesting it after what Harry just said,"
      the old wizard said heavily. "I think we'll have to figure out how
      to kill Voldemort. Even if there may be alternative options now
      that we have some idea of what he's planning, we would want to have
      the possibility if the opportunity should arise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione paled. Harry just turned to business.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For that, you'll have to tell us a bit more about how he's
      immortal in the first place. So far, you haven't exactly been
      forthcoming with information. From what little you told me, I
      <em class="calibre8">still</em> have hardly any idea what is going on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster shifted uncomfortably. "As I have told you
      before, my knowledge on that subject is woefully limited –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Harry growled. "But even that little bit, you still
      haven't told me completely. For example, you mentioned some Myrtle
      person dying for his immortality before. That's something you
      didn't mention when we talked about this the last time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore frowned, seeming to fight with himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't want to say," Hermione said quietly. "Is it that
      bad?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard looked grave. "Yes, Hermione, it is the darkest
      kind of magic. But," he turned to Harry, "I confess that the main
      source for my reluctance is concern over your response, Harry. I
      know that you seek immortal life, for yourself and others, but I
      would not have you try this road to immortality, for that way
      darkness lies. You might be able to talk yourself into it, if you
      were to find a willing victim perhaps. You do not believe in the
      existence of souls, so you might fool yourself into thinking that
      this ritual holds no risks for you. But I am certain that it will
      destroy the goodness in your heart, and I fear to the utmost the
      consequences for the world if you go down this path."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I promise you, Professor, I will use my best moral judgment.
      No, let's make that stronger. If <em class="calibre8">Hermione</em> thinks it's a
      bad idea for me to use whatever you're going to tell me, I won't do
      it, and I'm not going to do any irreversible magics without being
      entirely sure what effect they will have. Can you be okay with
      that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Caw?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione fondled Xare as Professor Dumbledore gazed at her
      intently. Then, he reluctantly nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well, then. I shall tell you two all that I know, although
      I must ask that what we discuss today does not leave this room." He
      paused, waiting until they had both nodded in agreement, before
      resuming. "I have spoken to you before of a dark and terrible
      ritual, by which a fragment of the soul is torn off and chained to
      a worldly device. Such a device is called a <em class="calibre8">horcrux</em>. I do
      not know, precisely, of the arts involved in the creation of this
      foul thing, but I am almost certain that part of the process
      requires a murder. While the horcrux persists, that part of the
      soul will prevent the part that resides in your body from passing
      on. Even if the body is killed, the soul is tied to this realm by
      the part in the horcrux, although it is greatly weakened and will
      take years before regaining the strength to take possession of a
      host body or, with sufficient help, even to acquire a new body of
      its own. Voldemort has dropped hints to his servants about his
      immortality before, and I am quite certain that he killed Abigail
      Myrtle when he was still in school. As no apparent motive existed
      for that murder, I suspect he made a horcrux even then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Just because you don't know of a motive doesn't mean there
      wasn't one," Harry pointed out. "And if you actually knew for
      certain that a schoolboy had killed a fellow student, I imagine he
      would be in Azkaban, so could you please just give us the raw
      facts, and then maybe inferences afterwards?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Most of what I know is based on inference and guesswork, I'm
      afraid," the old wizard replied. "What little I know of horcruxes
      comes from a book I remember reading briefly during my student
      years before putting it away in disgust, and otherwise a collection
      of suggestive book passages, half-disintegrated scrolls and ancient
      tales passed on from parent to child. To become a powerful wizard,
      you have to learn to read between the lines, and this is what I
      have done for want of a better option. But, I shall try to do as
      you ask."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So... Myrtle?" Harry pressed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She herself knew of no motive," Dumbledore said. "Her ghost
      told me as much. It took me a while to coax her into speaking of
      her death, however – at first she was quite preoccupied with
      haunting the girl who had bullied her in school. Her testimony
      suggested that her killer was a boy, speaking in hisses, although
      she never saw his face. Given how exceedingly rare the Parseltongue
      ability is, I am certain that the boy in question was Tom Riddle.
      Yet, she didn't even know him besides being aware of him as a
      Prefect in a different House. I suspect that, due to her isolation,
      she was merely a convenient target..." He trailed off, and looked
      grave. "Unfortunately, a ghost's testimony in court is not
      accepted, as ghosts can neither take Veritaserum nor be punished
      for lying in court, so Riddle was never even questioned over her
      death. At the time, I do believe he had already learned Occlumency,
      however, so it would not have been enough regardless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Harry said. It wasn't very convincing evidence, but it
      was <em class="calibre8">plausible</em> that Riddle had used a random student as a
      victim in some sacrificial ritual. It didn't follow that this was
      an immortality ritual, but it was still worth filing away for
      future reference.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What does a horcrux look like?" Hermione asked in the
      silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not know of any distinguishing features. The object to be
      turned into a horcrux could be anything, although it might need to
      be something of emotional value to the owner. I suspect, given that
      Voldemort put a part of his soul on it, it will be something grand,
      but I can guess no more than that. There <em class="calibre8">are</em> certain
      spells to recognize a horcrux when it is nearby, but unfortunately
      I have no clue what they are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned. "And the trick to undoing the caster's
      immortality is to destroy the horcrux?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," the old wizard nodded. "All my sources agree on that:
      when the device is destroyed, the caster is once again truly
      mortal. To destroy them is not easy, however; neither mundane
      methods nor any but the most powerful of magics will be able to
      penetrate a horcrux's protections. I once heard a tale of a dark
      wizard whose possessions were all burned after his death, yet a
      single painting remained untouched by the flames, a painting that
      exhibited a remarkable intelligence and personality. Neither
      swords, cutting curses, dedicated charms to remove the magic from
      paintings or anything else worked, until the painting was finally
      destroyed using fiendfyre. That, and basilisk venom, are the only
      two feasible ways of destruction I learned of."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "But to destroy this horcrux, I presume, we need
      to find it. Does he need to keep it close to himself?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard shook his head. "The only purpose of a horcrux is
      to bind a soul to this realm; I do not believe that there is any
      reason its creator would ever need to come back to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Great. So it could be anywhere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard smiled sadly. "Yes. I was hoping you might have
      some ideas where he could have hidden it, as you are so familiar
      with the way he thinks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry frowned, thinking. Where <em class="calibre8">would I hide something I
      wouldn't want anyone to find?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something inside him shriveled up and died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do. Sorry, there is <em class="calibre8">no way</em> you're ever going to find
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He actually asked me this before, where I would hide something,
      and the answer amused him for some reason. I don't know exactly
      what I came up with, but I'm pretty sure dropping it at the bottom
      of a non-descript piece of ocean, getting it at a random spot in
      the earth's core and sending it out into space were some of them.
      If <em class="calibre8">I</em> can think of that, then so did he. In fact –" He
      trailed off as another realization hit him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Crap.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, what's wrong?" Hermione asked. "You look very white all
      of a sudden."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have you ever heard of the Pioneer Probes?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're telling me," Dumbledore summarized, looking
      <em class="calibre8">very</em> tired now, "that Voldemort's horcrux is probably on a
      trajectory out of the Solar System."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes." Harry shrugged helplessly. "I think we could probably
      calculate its exact location, but... well, you may want to see how
      much wizards can help the space program."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But when did that happen? They launched a probe to outer space
      <em class="calibre8">before</em> the moon landing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." Harry shook his head. "Both pioneer probes were launched
      in the seventies."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But that doesn't match up! He killed Myrtle far earlier than
      that, and the books on horcruxes were already missing in 1960."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry considered. "Are we sure that there's only one?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster was staring at him in horrified silence. Hermione
      looked from one to the other as though she, too, had no idea what
      was going to happen next.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If it was <em class="calibre8">me</em>," Harry continued, "I wouldn't trust my
      immortality to a single object that could be damaged or found or
      <em class="calibre8">whatever</em>. No matter how many precautions you put on your
      phylactery, it's never enough. But if this is the kind of thing
      that you can do more than once – and from your expression I gather
      that you don't have any knowledge indicating that it is
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> possible – then that seems like a pretty good idea to
      do, really. If you don't mind killing people, that is," he added as
      an afterthought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ancient wizard buried his face in his hands. "We are all
      doomed."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not necessarily. There might be other options than killing him,
      right?" Harry reminded him. "I don't <em class="calibre8">know</em> whether he has a
      large number of horcruxes in impossible locations. I do know that
      if he has found a road to immortality, that he will have done
      everything in his considerable power to ensure that it doesn't get
      destroyed. So I think we can pretty much give up on this line of
      thinking, and should consider something else. I guess in the worst
      case, we could even give him what he wants, because his ulterior
      goal doesn't seem to be <em class="calibre8">that</em> dark."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Would you really do that?" Hermione whispered. "After
      yesterday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes to shut out the memories. "No. I guess I'd
      rather not do it. But it's an option to consider."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster smiled wryly. "I see you have at last learned of
      the Phoenix's Price."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked down at his feet. If continuing to fight would cost
      another few million innocent lives, should he, really? Was a
      magical dictatorship with himself at the helm so bad as to make
      such sacrifices worth it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">He</em> taught you to lose," Hermione said quietly into the
      silence. "You're thinking of losing now, aren't you? Of giving up
      in the face of a superior foe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up. She was right.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not yet," he said grimly. "We'll see how it plays out. His
      goals are <em class="calibre8">somewhat</em> aligned with mine, but I don't like his
      methods, and I have no intention of conquering the Muggle world.
      Let's not stop thinking after one setback. Perhaps we cannot
      <em class="calibre8">kill</em> him, but can we <em class="calibre8">imprison</em> him? If he is
      possessing a body, can we bind him to it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster shook his head. "Everything I know of possession
      says you cannot. If he creates another body for himself, perhaps
      that would work, if he had no way of committing suicide."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Okay. You say the horcrux is about souls. Now, I don't believe
      in souls, and as far as I can tell, neither does Quirrell. Are
      there other explanations about what it does?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster shrugged helplessly. "If there are, I do not know
      of them. But that is saying very little, since, as you know, my
      knowledge of horcruxes is limited."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, so let's focus on the world 'soul' for now. Do we know
      any other magic that is said to have something to do with souls?
      Can you bind or... destroy..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They stared at each other in sudden understanding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well," the old wizard broke the silence eventually. "I suppose
      Dementors <em class="calibre8">did</em> have some purpose after all. It's a shame
      you just destroyed all of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which was one of his plans, of course," Harry grumbled. He
      began to understand what Moody had meant when he said you always
      ended up doing or thinking exactly what he wanted you to do or
      think. "I don't suppose we know where Dementors originally came
      from? Can we make new ones?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore shook his head. "They breed, when they are given
      enough souls. But where they originally came from, no one
      knows."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right, if we <em class="calibre8">do</em> find another Dementor, it may be
      an idea to keep it rather than straight-out destroy it, but
      otherwise, let's shelve that idea for now. Do we know of other ways
      to bind a soul? Or other magics, creatures or devices that somehow
      have 'soul' or 'spirit' in their description?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Possession, mainly, which is done by briefly moving your soul
      and magic out of your body and into someone else's – although there
      is some academical disagreement on that point – but this does not
      seem useful to our situation. Exorcism rituals cast out the
      possessing soul, which is contrary to what you are looking for.
      Otherwise, there are the resurrection stone and ghosts, but these
      only provide a way to interact with specific people who have
      already died. Killing, in particular the Killing Curse, is said to
      crack the soul, but I believe that this merely helps in creating
      more horcruxes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hrmz. Well, it's worth thinking about, and I'll keep reading
      about possession, frustrating though all the contradictions are.
      I'll try to come up with other formulations that might be
      relevant." His stomach rumbled audibly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," the Headmaster nodded. "But come to my office whenever
      you have any new ideas you wish to discuss. You are always
      welcome."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">As they trudged back towards the Great Hall together (Hermione
      didn't want to use Xare for <em class="calibre8">everything</em>), Hermione looked a
      little bit subdued.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you okay?" Harry asked. "I know it probably takes some
      getting used to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not sure there was much point in me being there at all,"
      she muttered. "All I could do was sit and listen and be completely
      horrified by everything the two of you were discussing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, we've been having several of these sessions. Dumbledore
      is used to fighting a war, so he can be very hard when he needs to
      be, and, well, I'm creative, you know me. But note that just
      because I <em class="calibre8">think</em> of stuff doesn't mean I'm going to
      <em class="calibre8">do</em> it. It's all about getting into a habit of coming up
      with good ideas, and then you can disregard the more immoral and
      impractical ones later. If I disregarded ideas because my brain
      shut off when going into that direction, then I'd miss a lot of
      good and perfectly ethical possibilities, <em class="calibre8">and</em> I'd be less
      good at figuring out what the bad guys want to do. You shouldn't
      blame yourself for not thinking like that, you're just not that
      kind of person. And you <em class="calibre8">did</em> bring up some pretty good
      points, actually."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, and walked on in silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's this with you being possessed?" she asked eventually.
      "You said something about that earlier, but I didn't really know
      what you were talking about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, that. Well, Professor Dumbledore thinks my dark side is
      actually a possession by You-Know-Who gone wrong. Apparently dark
      wizards can take over other people's bodies, but <em class="calibre8">normally</em>
      that requires them to 'leave their own' and be fully concentrated
      on dominating you. But he found a story about this child who got
      dominated by a dark wizard who was also active at the same time. So
      he thinks that You-Know-Who tried to possess me by only putting a
      <em class="calibre8">part</em> of himself in me, and that he then accidentally
      killed himself, was kept alive by the horcrux, and the part of him
      that was possessing me sort of grew into me and became a separate
      part, but with no real control unless I get very angry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She frowned. "A part of him? Like, a part of his soul?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stood stock still. That hypothesis made an awful lot of
      sense. Of course Riddle had multiple horcruxes. He didn't give a
      damn about human sacrifice. He had so many that he could afford to
      take some risks with one of them, and turn a vulnerable object like
      a human into a horcrux as well. A horcrux could be something as
      simple as a full backup of your mind at the time of making it;
      Harry's dark side had no will of its own, but it <em class="calibre8">did</em> seem
      to have intelligence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should we go back to Dumbledore?" Hermione asked in a high
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shook his head, and started walking again. "Not now. I
      want to think about it first. If he realizes that I'm a horcrux he
      might just decide that I need destroying."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wouldn't do that!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed wearily and pulled her along. "What do you think
      you know, Hermione, and how do you think you know it?"</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
