<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 102: The Muggle War, Pt 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s22" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 102: The Muggle War, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Wednesday morning, in Westminster Palace. Thomas Johnson sat in
      the packed audience benches. Yesterday evening, the Minister of
      Magic Cornelius Fudge had visited the Prime Minister, and in a rare
      show of consideration offered to address the House of Commons.
      Thomas had barely managed to secure a seat, but as a high-ranking
      official in the Ministry of Defense, he had some leverage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps it was unfair. He already knew all about magic, and had
      even been reading the Daily Prophet every evening for the last
      three years. Being married to a witch had many perks, even if it
      meant lying to his friends and family because of the silence vows.
      But Sarissa had told him that the Minister of Magic was a
      blustering fool, a puppet controlled by the more powerful players
      on the political field, and he wanted to see this for himself. The
      live broadcast might not work for long, as too much magic disturbed
      electronic devices, a problem which he had encountered far too
      often in their household. (Fortunately, Sarissa didn't have much
      need for magic at home, her day job researching spells in the
      <em class="calibre8">Nimbus</em> company giving her an outlet for her witchy
      urges.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minister Fudge was supposed to deliver a speech at ten in the
      morning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was now 10:02.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">People were shifting uncomfortably, the Prime Minister looking
      livid. The supposed Minister of Magic was nowhere to be seen near
      the palace, and if the man didn't show up, it would reflect badly
      on <em class="calibre8">him</em>. Even if he did, the lateness was a sure sign of
      disrespect towards the governmental body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, at six minutes past ten, a man suddenly appeared in the
      center of the room with a loud *pop*. All conversation ceased
      amidst gasps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard drew himself up with a pompous look on his face. A
      portly man wearing a pinstriped suit and a lime green bowler hat,
      he looked positively ridiculous. The man cast a surprised look
      around the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, good morning, Minister Fudge," the Prime Minister
      spoke.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister of Magic nodded briefly. "What's with all these
      people, Prime Minister? I expected to speak just with you and your
      ministers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Prime Minister's face briefly flashed in consternation, but
      then quickly smoothed itself again. "These are the elected
      representatives of the lower House of parliament, sir." He wisely
      forgot to mention the spectators on the Strangers' Gallery, Thomas
      thought. Not to mention the cameras.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, well," the wizard grumbled. "I'm already breaking the
      Statute of Secrecy as it is, just by being here. It needn't get any
      worse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I assure you, sir, all the people in this room are aware of
      magic. It's been rather hard to miss, these past few days." His
      voice held just a hint of reproach.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, I suppose." The man flicked his hand dismissively before
      turning to face the Assembly, and cleared his throat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've been asked to inform you of the current situation. Well
      then. The attacks on Monday and earlier this month were done by a
      dark wizard, Quirius Quirrell or something like that. Don't ask me
      why, he probably just has it in for Muggles. You may rest assured
      that we are taking the matter very seriously, and the Department of
      Magical Law Enforcement is doing all in its power to apprehend the
      man." After a pause he added, in tones as though he were bestowing
      a great favor upon his listeners: "I can also offer you a thousand
      doses of bone, muscle and tissue regeneration potion to help with
      the aftermath of Monday's... of Monday."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence, then the Minister of Public Health
      cleared his throat. "There are over five thousand heavily wounded,
      sir. Perhaps a little more ...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard started, and stared at the man who had spoken. "This
      is an extremely generous offer! A thousand such potions would take
      a Master Potioneer over half a year to make, you know."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thomas groaned silently. <em class="calibre8">Just point out that most of those
      people don't need limb regrowth, you fool.</em> A thousand potions
      seemed to be about the right figure to help the people who had
      third-degree burns in public places, needed amputations, or had
      ruptured internal organs beyond repair. The offer must have been
      designed to cure those people who were beyond the abilities of
      Muggle medicine to help. Unfortunately, it didn't seem like Fudge
      was about to explain this reasoning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister of Public Health seemed lost for words for some
      moments, but quickly recovered. "<em class="calibre8">Thousands</em> of people will
      suffer for much longer than half a year without the help, sir.
      Perhaps you might consider...?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard snorted. "We are already giving you more than half
      the current supply of St. Mungo's! I'd think you'd be
      grateful!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We do appreciate it, sir," the man answered, with a definite
      edge to his voice. "But one of <em class="calibre8">your</em> citizens hurt our
      people, and your offer of assistance only accounts for a fraction
      of the wounded!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's hardly our problem, is it?" The portly man
      blustered. "It's not like <em class="calibre8">we</em> sent the man after you!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a buzz of indignant muttering and several angry
      exclamations at that. The Speaker called for order, and the
      Minister of Defense stood up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before we continue this... discussion," he spoke in a deep
      voice, "I was wondering. What is currently being done to apprehend
      this dark wizard? I see little point in haggling over healing
      potions if this man is just going to pull a similar stunt next
      week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As I said," Fudge said haughtily, "we are working on it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, sure, I understand," the man continued. "But that is a
      phrase we have heard many times in these chambers, and it may carry
      many different meanings. Would you be able to tell us how you are
      progressing? Do you know his residence? Where he will strike next?
      His methods? Whether he is acting alone or is part of a larger
      network?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He wasn't even sure of the man's name," a woman interjected
      bitterly. "Or what he wants."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm the Minister of Magic, not the Head of Magical Law
      Enforcement! It's not my job to concern myself with details like
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If a criminal from my country killed and wounded over a million
      people in one day," the Minister of Defense spoke harshly, "I would
      damn well hope that the Prime Minister knew his name, at least! And
      from your response, it sounds like you either have very little clue
      what's going on in your own Ministry, which would speak volumes
      about the quality of your magical 'government' if true, by the way,
      or you simply don't want to admit that you have absolutely no leads
      on this dangerous individual who seems to be targeting non-magical
      people in particular."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me?" Fudge exclaimed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look," the man continued. "We can help. This is obviously an
      urgent matter of national and international importance. If you or
      someone else can illuminate what your people know about this...
      this terrorist, his motives and especially his abilities, we can
      dedicate several teams of our best police force and army groups to
      his capture."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard snorted. "You seriously think <em class="calibre8">Muggles</em> have a
      chance at finding and defeating a <em class="calibre8">wizard</em>? That's
      preposterous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Defense Minister ground his teeth. "<em class="calibre8">Muggles</em>, as you
      call us, are not so helpless as you seem to think. Send us someone
      to explain, or even better, demonstrate magical abilities, and
      we'll employ our most advanced spying and engagement technology.
      With an understanding of what magic can do, we may be able to
      develop both defenses and weapons. Even if it turns out we truly
      cannot take him down ourselves, it is sheer arrogance to believe
      that our help could not be useful at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister of Magic bristled. "Now see here, I'm not going to
      teach a bunch of Muggles what magic spells look like! The very
      idea! If I had know you would be so demanding I wouldn't have come
      here!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You expected us to say 'yes sir, no sir' and lap up everything
      you said, didn't you?" The woman who had spoken up before asked.
      "Do you really expect us to sit and wait while you get your act
      around and handle this terrorist? And for that matter, I find it
      really hard to believe that a single terrorist could wreak such
      damage. He cannot possibly be working alone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Believe what you will," the Minister of Magic answered
      coolly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well then, I shall tell you what I believe," the Muggle
      woman answered back. "I believe that there's a group of highly
      dangerous individuals out to wage a magical war of terror on normal
      people. I believe that you and your magical Ministry are either on
      their side, or covering for them because you're too afraid of what
      we might be able to do to you if, heaven forbid, we should come to
      learn how magic works. I believe you are not going to expend any
      more than a token effort at uncovering this group, because you
      don't give a toss about what happens to <em class="calibre8">Muggles</em>. You don't
      feel anything but contempt for us, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard glared at her. "I see no reason to respond to
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Is it true?" Another asked. "Are you just planning to stand by
      and let us get killed?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I hardly expect it to make a difference," another man, Lee
      White, sneered. "If the rest of his people share the incompetence
      of their leader, we might as well be on our own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thomas flinched. Lee White was an idiot, a troublesome back
      bencher with little political experience and no sense of diplomacy.
      His attention-seeking and "plain speaking" antics were bad enough
      normally, but the leader of the magical side of the country was not
      someone whom it seemed wise to insult.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Cornelius Fudge stared at the man. "How dare you speak to your
      superiors in such a way?" He demanded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Superiors?!" Someone else shouted, shocked. "Are you mad? Who
      made you –" and then cut off as the Prime Minister frantically
      signaled for him to shut up, as the pompous little wizard turned
      red hot in anger.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see that I have given the wrong impression by coming here
      tonight," the man finally said in what was probably supposed to be
      a cool tone, but quite failed to hide his loss of composure. "Just
      because I <em class="calibre8">deign</em> to explain a few things to you doesn't
      mean that you have the right to question and judge me!" He briefly
      tipped his hat in a gesture of goodbye.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait!" One of the women stood up and yelled to him. "Wait,
      please, sir! Please, what about the children?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister of Magic turned to her. "Children?" He
      repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The school children from the Saint Mary's primary school. The
      Prime Minister has informed us that they might still be alive?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, them," the wizard said. "Yes, I forgot to mention that. I
      suppose we might as well send them home now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, sir. And... are they all right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They're all missing a leg," the man shrugged, looking somewhat
      calmer now that he was being addressed in properly deferential
      tones. "But otherwise they're unharmed, last I heard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you do to them?" A man asked, and then added,
      grudgingly, "sir?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">I</em> did nothing," the Minister of Magic replied in a
      prickly tone. "This Quirrell guy apparently went and cursed their
      legs off. We've just moved them to the Ministry for the time
      being."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But why did you take them away in the first place?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, they were all missing a leg! We could hardly leave them
      there. The International Confederation would never stand for such a
      breach of the Statute of Secrecy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you kidnapped three hundred and twelve children," a woman
      said hollowly. "Made their parents believe they died in a horrible
      explosion, and now hold them prisoner against their will in this
      Ministry of yours, presumably never to return home. And you did all
      this just to keep the public from discovering the truth?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What else would you have me do?" Fudge blustered. "We can't
      just violate our most sacred law for a bunch of Muggle
      children!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about <em class="calibre8">our</em> laws?" Another man shot. "The laws of
      this country? And no," he added loudly to the person sitting next
      to him, who had nudged him and shot him a warning look, "I'm not
      going to be all 'yes sir' and 'please sir' and 'thank you sir', and
      pretend that this man who didn't even get elected by the public is
      somehow above me, just to stroke his ego."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And <em class="calibre8">I</em> am not going to let some uppity Muggle lecture
      me!" Cornelius Fudge almost shouted. "You will hold your tongue,
      mister, if you like it where it is!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you <em class="calibre8">threatening</em> me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please remain calm, sir," The Speaker requested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you live on British soil," the man continued after a brief
      pause, cold dripping from his voice, "you should follow British
      law, and not hide behind ungoverned institutions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a little presumptuous, sir," the wizard answered in
      similar tones. "Perhaps <em class="calibre8">you</em> should follow <em class="calibre8">our</em>
      laws instead."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would seek to rule us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I wasn't going to bring it up, but if you insist on
      pushing the point, then yes, we just might!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lee White jumped up. "You realize this means war, don't
      you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. White, you forget yourself!" The Speaker barked. "You do
      not speak for this assembly!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, it's fine," Cornelius Fudge said, his cheeks red with
      anger, his voice shaking. "I see now that Lord Malfoy had the right
      idea all along. I should never have come here. The only proper way
      to treat the lower sorts is to kill or subjugate them!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He nodded firmly, and disappeared with a crack of
      Apparition.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The Minister of Magic appeared in the Wizengamot Hall, where
      those of them who had bothered to show up were waiting.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah, Cornelius," the Chief Warlock boomed. "How did it go?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, I'll say! Those arrogant... Those presumptuous..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia's heart sank. <em class="calibre8">Just how badly has it gone
      wrong?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What happened, Cornelius?" Albus Dumbledore asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those arrogant Muggles had the audacity to declare war on us.
      On <em class="calibre8">us</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What made them do so?" Dumbledore demanded, over the gasps of
      surprise. "What did you <em class="calibre8">say</em>?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I delivered the message, just like you asked me to! And then
      they got all unreasonable, saying they didn't believe me and
      demanding <em class="calibre8">more</em>! The very idea!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Chief Warlock frowned. "Muggles have every reason to tread
      carefully in our presence, and little reason to take offense to an
      explanation, a gift and an apology for not being able to do more.
      Did you say something that could have provoked them, Cornelius?
      Perhaps a misunderstanding?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"More likely," Lucius Malfoy cut in, "the Muggles perceived him
      to act weakly, and saw it as an invitation." He smiled wryly. "This
      is what I've been saying over and over again. We cannot live
      <em class="calibre8">peacefully side by side</em> with Muggles. Either we establish
      our superiority, or <em class="calibre8">they</em> will try to dominate <em class="calibre8">us</em>!
      Today we have seen where trying to reach out a friendly hand leads
      us, will you listen to me now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia sighed in frustration as the arguments flared up
      again.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Thursday afternoon found the House of Commons in uproar
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look, I'm just saying," Zack Scott spoke elaborately, "it is
      obvious that we cannot fight these people. They have magic, for
      God's sake! If we want to survive, the only thing we can do is
      submit. The next time they come to us, we apologize, show them the
      respect they want, and accept whatever demands they make."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't even know that they are going to <em class="calibre8">make</em> any
      demands," Rita Reham pointed out wearily once again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we must agree on the response if they do!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Prime Minister looked ponderously at Zack Scott while people
      argued around him. The usually calm, manipulative man was behaving
      uncharacteristic of himself. Of course it was possible that the
      shock of the revelation of magic, and then the superior attitude of
      the Minister of Magic had caused his current behavior, but,
      well...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Could magic be used to take over someone's mind, or impersonate
      them down to the very fingerprints?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He'd been wondering for the last hour. During a break in the
      discussions, he had approached Zack and asked him a personal
      question about his wife, and Zack had looked him squarely in the
      eyes and given him an answer only the real Zack Scott would have
      known. So it had to be him, and yet... something felt off.
      Unfortunately, despite knowing about magic for several years now,
      he'd never seen many hints of what it was capable of.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A loud cough in the doorway; his personal secretary stood there,
      looking disturbed. He nodded his apologies and left his place,
      quickly stepping over to her as curious glances followed him. The
      woman silently passed him a note.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Zack Scott's wife on the telephone just now. He was found
      bound and comatose half an hour ago. Currently in
      hospital.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a jolt he looked up from the paper, staring at the man who
      had been addressing the assembly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The impostor met his eyes, raised an eyebrow, and sneered. Then
      he whirled around, and disappeared with a soft *pop*.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On Thursday night, the Palace of Westminster went up in
      flames.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Life went on. Despite the nation-wide panic, you couldn't just
      drop all your responsibilities and take to the streets – and what
      would that accomplish, anyway? So, after reading the morning paper,
      and worrying quite a bit about all the recent developments, Mary
      drank the last of her coffee and went to the hospital to start her
      shift. She wondered idly whether Zack Scott would wake up today.
      The politician who had been found naked and unconscious in the
      cellar of an abandoned building while to all appearances he was
      speaking in parliament at the time was in one of <em class="calibre8">her</em>
      wards, and it was intriguing, even if more than a little scary, to
      be so close to the events that were shaking the country.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mary clocked in and walked to the ward to inspect the patients,
      but she stopped in her tracks right before the entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blood was seeping out from underneath the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Shaking, fearful of the sight that might meet her eyes but
      knowing that <em class="calibre8">someone</em> would have to do it, she opened the
      door and gasped at the blood, and the body of her colleague lying
      mutilated on the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Were you the one who sounded the alarm?" A creepy voice
      whispered in her ears. She whirled around, but there was no one
      there, no one still alive. Panic rising, she tried to run, but then
      realized she couldn't move.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think you might have been," the creepy voice decided.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"N-no," she whispered, only to be met with a throaty laugh from
      the same invisible source.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Crucio.</em>"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On Friday afternoon, a group of rioters broke into old Tom's
      antique store, accused him of being a wizard, and set the place on
      fire.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"What the –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Marco jumped back in shock as he entered his garden shed to put
      away his tools and found it already taken. A writhing mass of
      tendrils and vines covered every inch of the floor, wall and
      ceiling, and most of the space in between as well. What was more,
      the moment he opened the door, it almost seemed like the plant was
      turning to face them, absurd though that idea was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He hesitated only a second, then turned on his heel and ran. Or
      he tried to, but the move only made him fall over, his left foot
      already ensnared by a thick green vine.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He struggled and screamed as the plant drew him inside and
      wrapped itself around his torso, but all his efforts only seemed to
      make it worse. The last thing he heard before darkness claimed him
      were the shocked yells of his neighbors.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On Friday night, when the pubs closed, large groups of drunken
      people took to the streets, terrified and very, very angry.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Patrick stood on the pavement between houses 19 and 23, laying
      out a large pile of wood and tinder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The people in the neighborhood had always assumed that it was a
      mistake that the houses on the odd-numbered side of the street
      skipped number 21. Someone had brought up the suggestion to
      renumber the houses, a few years back, but it would simply be too
      impractical for the people living in the later houses to change
      their addresses. So it had been left, a strangeness everyone
      overlooked for convenience.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But with the recent developments, Patrick figured there might
      just be something more going on. There was magic in the world,
      wizards attacking the government, and didn't wizards have to live
      somewhere too? Why would a street engineer just miss a number, and
      then not correct it before people moved in? Sure, there were
      explanations, but perhaps the most natural one was that the house
      wasn't missing at all. If wizards could impersonate a secretary of
      state to the point of knowing irrelevant personal details, might
      they not also be able to hide a house?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His mother thought he was crazy when he brought up this theory
      in the morning, but he wasn't just going to spend his weekend
      staying at home and doing homework like everything was fine. He was
      going to get to the bottom of this.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He poured oil on the wood, and threw a match. With a large
      <em class="calibre8">woompf</em> the fire flared up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patrick waited. The bane of invisible items, he had learned from
      his regular D&amp;D group, was smoke. An invisible person standing
      in smoke would leave a gap. Other people could see that. And a
      house might be a slightly different thing, but it was worth
      trying.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stared at the divide between houses 19 and 23 as smoke from
      the slightly wet wood wafted by. Absolutely nothing weird showed
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Wait, no</em>. The smoke was moving a lot more towards the
      23 door than towards 19; it hardly seemed to move in that direction
      at all. Yet there was no wind. Even though his mind insisted that
      nothing <em class="calibre8">looked</em> strange at all, when he considered the
      movement of the smoke there was evidently <em class="calibre8">something</em> going
      on<em class="calibre8">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"What do you think you're doing, you little vandal, lighting
      fires in the street?"</em> An angry voice demanded behind him.
      Patrick jumped, and turned. A middle-aged man stood there, arms
      crossed, eyes flashing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patrick stamped down on his reflex to run, and instead smiled
      brightly. "It's all for a good purpose, sir. I've just confirmed
      the presence of wizards in our street."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Paul? What's wrong?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Paul stared up at his co-pilot. "All the instruments have gone
      haywire all of a sudden!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The woman blanched. "Well. I guess this is where we put our
      training to the test."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Around dinnertime, Patrick was no longer alone. A crowd had
      gathered around him, and the more people were there, the more ideas
      got brought up and accommodated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They had tried to determine the exact divide between houses 19
      and 23, and got a headache for their efforts. They could mark two
      places on the walls which seemed quite close to each other, but
      they couldn't manage to stand exactly between them, even though
      they could walk from one to the other in a single step.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Now, some people had created a good hundred Molotov cocktails.
      The inhabitants from houses 19 and 23 were not at all pleased with
      the plans, even despite their discomfort with the idea of living
      next to a wizard, but they didn't get much of a say in the
      situation. The police was wisely staying well away, and a number of
      people had brought fire extinguishers to stop any fire from
      spreading, just in case. A journalist with camera crew stood a bit
      to the side, capturing every moment. Other neighbors had reviled
      Patrick and the others for their stupidity, and fled their houses
      for safer ground, far away from where magic might be happening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patrick smiled broadly. This was <em class="calibre8">his</em> moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a flick of his arm, he hurled the first bottle right at the
      center between the two markers they had been able to place. It
      exploded, not <em class="calibre8">quite</em> at the wall although he wouldn't have
      been able to say exactly at what point it did, and then the fire
      almost instantly died out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The crowd roared – if they had still needed any more
      confirmation, they had it now. Patrick was pushed aside as the
      others joined in, and bottle after bottle was flung at the divide.
      Every time a bottle hit there was a brief explosion, and then the
      fire quickly died (except twice, when the thrower missed and hit
      one of the houses on either side, but these fires were both
      extinguished before any harm could be done). The wall on the
      outside of the markers became more and more charred, but the center
      remained perfectly clear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the thirtieth bottle, there was a sudden shimmering in the
      air, but nothing more than that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The next thirteen bottles had a similar effect. And then, at the
      forty-fourth bottle, there was a flash of light and the group
      suddenly found themselves standing in front of house 21. Patrick
      blinked. He had <em class="calibre8">suspected</em>, but to see it happen like that
      was... was something else entirely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a chuckle behind them. "Impressive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patrick spun around rapidly. Behind them stood a tall, muscular
      man, wearing gray robes, a piece of wood held loosely in his hand.
      <em class="calibre8">Wand</em>, Patrick mentally filled in. The air around the
      wizard was shimmering with a strange blue light – some kind of
      arcane shield?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This was my mother's old house," the wizard spoke softly. "The
      wards haven't been renewed in ten years. Still, I wouldn't have
      expected a bunch of Muggles to take them down so easily. So,
      congratulations on your achievement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mrs. Jones, who lived at number 41, didn't wait. She grabbed
      another bottle and hurled it right at the wizard. The man, however,
      merely waved his wand and the projectile was flicked to the side,
      falling harmlessly on the street. Then he pointed his wand at the
      woman. "<em class="calibre8">Sectumsempra</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blood spurted from Mrs. Jones's face and chest, as though she
      were slashed multiple times with a sharp sword. The woman collapsed
      in a pool of blood, the assorted people staring in shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patrick didn't want to look, but he couldn't tear his eyes away.
      <em class="calibre8">Holy shit.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you little fools. You haven't got a clue what you got
      yourself into, have you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man's left hand dipped into his pocket, and then he threw
      <em class="calibre8">something</em> to the right, then to the left. On either side
      of the crowd, a wall of dark red mist appeared in the street,
      blocking any escape they might have contemplated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's have some fun, shall we?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patrick glanced to the sides, suddenly frightened. There was no
      going back from what they had started; the mist was probably
      dangerous, they couldn't flee anymore. Yet the wizard didn't seem
      to have any fear at all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He made a snap decision and grabbed two bottles from one of the
      boxes even as William, who lived three streets over, was already
      flinging another bottle at the wizard. The man merely pushed it
      away again, right into another bystander. William roared, and
      tossed another bottle, and then a third from the box by his
      feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Too much was happening at once. The screams from the burning
      man, the whimpering from the slashed woman, and not too far away, a
      man yelling in some kind of agony after he had stepped into the
      mist. People were throwing Molotov cocktails at the wizard, staying
      as far away as they could, but he just flung them aside, until
      finally someone managed to hit him from behind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard merely stumbled as the explosive hit his shield, and
      he turned around and yelled "<em class="calibre8">Reducto!</em>" The man who had
      thrown the projectile just <em class="calibre8">exploded</em>, but Patrick, not one
      to miss an opportunity when it presented itself, threw his two
      bottles in quick succession at the back of the wizard, then ran to
      another part of the street to avoid being targeted immediately.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some of the others had seen it too, the weakness, and they
      scattered. <em class="calibre8">Can't stay too close to each other, he'll just fling
      our weapons back at us and set us on fire in groups.</em> But if
      they could surround him, he couldn't defend all sides at once. If
      enough explosives could bring down the protections of a house,
      wouldn't they be able to take on a person too?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizard snarled as blast after blast tore into his shields,
      and he aimed his wand and cast "<em class="calibre8">Reducto</em>" and then
      "<em class="calibre8">Reducto</em>" again, each time exploding one of his opponents.
      But he had made a crucial mistake, Patrick thought. He had given
      them no choice, hemming them in and blocking their escape. They
      would all fight to the death, even grumpy old Mrs. Wind who always
      complained about the loudness of his music.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was Patrick's friend Kim whose bottle hit the wizard's
      right-hand side, shattered the shield with a large flash and
      snapped his wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief moment of shock as the man stared in horror at
      the broken piece of wood, then looked at the people who were dying
      around them, half still alive, still standing. <em class="calibre8">This is it</em>,
      Patrick thought, wishing he still had explosives. <em class="calibre8">They can be
      beaten</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a scream of pain, the wizard was engulfed in flame as
      another bottle hit him from the back, and then he suddenly
      disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Patrick looked at the camera, the reporter and crew lying dead
      nearby. It was amazing how steady his voice was when he asked no
      one in particular: "do you think it's still running?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On Saturday night, all the news stations covered the near-defeat
      of an extremely murderous wizard at the hands of a group of
      civilians.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Lisa was looking at the repeat of the news when suddenly the
      television went black. The digital clock on the stereo went out,
      and from upstairs she heard a frustrated yell from her father.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">All the electrical devices in the house?</em> She tried the
      kitchen lights. Nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Standing in front of the kitchen window, however, she saw a
      large plume of billowing black smoke in the distance. That was
      probably related...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was still staring at the smoke as her father thundered down
      the stairs half a minute later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Pack some clothes honey, quickly! We're getting out of
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They blew up the power station! It's not safe to stay
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, the events on television seemed a lot less exciting,
      and a lot more frightening. "But where <em class="calibre8">is</em> it safe?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On Sunday afternoon, large protests were staged in the streets,
      while new crowds gathered around those places where mysterious
      hints – like missing house numbers or building sites that had been
      wrecked for as long as anyone could remember – suggested that
      perhaps magic might be at play. At the same time, innocent nature
      healers, gothic teenagers and people outside the common social
      structure were abused or even outright attacked. Three people were
      killed in fights, and the police had to break up many more.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Things are spinning out of control rapidly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia nodded grimly at the old wizard sitting across the table.
      "Yes. They are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I should never have agreed to let Cornelius deliver the
      message," Albus Dumbledore sighed bitterly. "Five thousand
      Galleons' worth of potions, paid from my own vault, and he manages
      to turn it into an insult. And then he bungles what we all agreed
      would be a simple explanation and honest question-answering by
      insisting on establishing his superiority. I suppose it was naive
      to think that the fool would do something quite so sophisticated as
      following instructions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia smirked. "Yes. You always were the optimist, Albus. But
      do not blame yourself too much." She sighed wearily. "I agreed to
      it, too. I do not believe there was much choice in the matter; the
      Wizengamot would not allow <em class="calibre8">you</em> to go, and once Cornelius
      offered there was no way to send me instead. You know the kind of
      offense he takes at people he believes are trying to usurp his
      position."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus stared into space. "I wonder whether I should go
      regardless. Explain things, extend a hand of friendship, without
      the Wizengamot's blessing if need be."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could have slapped the old fool. "No! You know they will
      never accept that! Once upon a time, perhaps, you might have got
      away with brashly flaunting the Wzengamot's will, but right now
      your public support is lower than it's ever been, especially with
      so many thinking that you're the kind of person who would send
      young children to die to your plots. If you defy its decisions now,
      you will be ousted from the Wizengamot, ousted even from Hogwarts.
      It will be the <em class="calibre8">end</em> of you, don't you see?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus just shook his head. "Perhaps it is worth the end of my
      political career, if I can only stop this war in its tracks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She rolled her eyes. "You <em class="calibre8">won't</em> stop the war in its
      tracks, at best you'll add a moderating influence for a while. But
      then what will we do? After your fall from grace, Lucius will hold
      the vote in the Wizengamot, and will be all but uncontested in his
      call for dominion over Muggles. How will your sacrifice stop the
      war, if that's exactly what Lucius will pursue?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He closed his eyes. "I know. I just... wonder, whether I
      couldn't do what is <em class="calibre8">right</em> for once, rather than merely
      what is <em class="calibre8">politically expedient</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at his face, old and weary. "What would you tell
      them, anyway?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That we're not all like that," Albus Dumbledore breathed. "That
      most of us want peace, just like they do. That we – some of us –
      will help them, when we can. That what they're seeing is merely the
      consequence of a single man we have no way of controlling, and a
      divided government fearful of change."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia snorted. "That would be lying – it isn't a single person
      anymore, not by far. There are various elements in our society who
      are taking every advantage of the current hostile atmosphere they
      can, to get away with being cruel towards Muggles. We've arrested
      Willy Widdershins this morning for enchanting whole streets full of
      Muggle doorknobs to bite off fingers, and I think he's only the tip
      of the iceberg. I don't know who was responsible for the Devil's
      Snare, or for the sudden infestation of flesh-eating slugs in York,
      but both of those bear the classical hallmarks of Muggle-baiting
      taken too far. And did you hear what Macnair did to the people who
      managed to break the wards to his mother's house?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus nodded. "Will he be punished for it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amelia shook her head sadly. "We've taken him in for
      questioning, but the law does state that a wizard has the right to
      defend his house. Perhaps you might say he used excessive force,
      but the fact is that they <em class="calibre8">were</em> attacking him, and actually
      managed to take down his shields and break his wand. He can argue
      any defense was justified, given the power they demonstrated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we cannot even tell them that the perpetrators are being
      punished."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she agreed, "we cannot. And Albus, surely you realize that
      such a message wouldn't do any good at all? Even if every Muggle
      heard you, if your message was heartening and loving and
      convincing, it would soon be forgotten amidst all the other things
      which are going on. A hand of friendship is easy to ignore when it
      stands among people hurling curses at you. And you know <em class="calibre8">he</em>
      will not stop. No matter <em class="calibre8">what</em> we try, it's never going to
      work unless we can stop <em class="calibre8">him</em>. So if you have any
      suggestions..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have no wisdom on how to kill Voldemort," Dumbledore spoke
      sadly, looking at his hands. "None at all, nor any clue how to even
      find him. I can think of only one thing to give him pause, that may
      at least still the bloodshed for now., and yet even that might not
      be achievable."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Might not</em> sounds better than <em class="calibre8">is not</em>," Amelia
      pointed out. She had little patience for mystery. "Tell me
      more."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">On Monday morning, the ferries to Calais and Dublin both sank at
      the same time.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good afternoon, Lieutenant General Darrens."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome, Brigadier Johnson. Please, have a seat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thomas did as he was bid, looking curiously at his companions.
      There were six men in the room so far, only four of whom he knew,
      all high-ranked officers in the British Army, Royal Marines and
      Royal Air Force.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened and two other men came in. The Lieutenant
      General bade them to sit down too, and locked the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're complete now," he said. "Thank you all for coming."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's this about, sir?" the last newcomer asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The wizard threat, of course," Darrens answered. "You are all
      men of a certain influence. Together, we can set a course of action
      to save our country."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Have we been commanded to act?" Major Meldon asked, surprised.
      "I have not received any notice. The government –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– is compromised," Lieutenant General Darrens cut in. "Didn't
      you hear what happened on Thursday? If they pulled that kind of
      stunt once, I won't believe for a second that they haven't tried it
      again, and without leaving a trace behind this time. And parliament
      <em class="calibre8">knows</em> it. Can't trust anyone anymore. Why do you think no
      orders have come from above, not even to disperse the riots in the
      streets? If they haven't yet been taken over completely, the
      atmosphere of distrust is making the government fully ineffective,
      that's why."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They probably got the Prime Minister," one of the men Thomas
      didn't know spoke up. "Seeing how he told everyone not to <em class="calibre8">risk
      their lives playing the hero</em> when that mob almost managed to
      kill a wizard in the weekend."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," the Lieutenant General nodded. "So we're on our own.
      Without the guidance of the government, the military has to be
      willing to take matters into its own hands. <em class="calibre8">Are</em> you
      willing, men? To do what it takes to defend our people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Major Meldon coughed. "How do you know <em class="calibre8">we</em> can all be
      trusted?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"None of us are important enough to warrant specific enemy
      attention," Lieutenant General Darrens explained calmly. "So I'm
      going to guess none of us have their minds controlled. It's a
      gamble, I know, but there's sufficient power in this group to make
      a real difference, even if one or two of us should be
      compromised."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm with you, sir," another of the men spoke firmly. "They've
      attacked our people. They've compromised our government. With all
      airports closed for fear of further interference, and now the
      boats, they've even taken away our chances to flee the country.
      They've started attacking our power plants – what if that was just
      a trial run, and they're taking down <em class="calibre8">all</em> of them next,
      including the nuclear plant over in Sellafield? We need to do what
      we can, while we can still do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what <em class="calibre8">can</em> we do?" Another asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, <em class="calibre8">I</em> am sure as hell not prepared to roll over and
      accept our new magical overlords." the first speaker asserted.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thomas looked concerned from one face to the next. His loyalties
      were divided, but he couldn't show that, here. "Are we really sure
      of who or what is the enemy, here? For what that supposed Minister
      said, this all might just be the work of a single terrorist."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Major Sandon snorted. "A single terrorist who systematically
      works on taking over control in the country? Bollocks. What if he
      succeeds, what's he planning to do, continue to wage war on
      <em class="calibre8">them</em>? No, if there is a single terrorist, he knows that
      they'll let him get away with it. Where are the good guys fighting
      this supposed bad guy? No one teleported into Westminster Palace to
      expose the impostor, no one stopped innocent hospital personnel
      from getting tortured, and no one came to arrest that madman when
      he exploded ten people on Saturday. So no, I'm not gonna give any
      credit to that bull."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agreed," Lieutenant General Darrens nodded. "So, men, are you
      willing to do what it takes, even without explicitly being given
      the order?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were nods around the table. Even Thomas slowly nodded. If
      he refused, they would think he was also "compromised", and do
      <em class="calibre8">who knew what</em> to him. At the very least, he would be asked
      to leave, if they dared to let him go, and he wouldn't learn what
      they were planning to do, and whether Sarissa might be in any
      danger. They had an international portkey to flee abroad if
      necessary, but he wouldn't be able to reach her until she got home
      from work in the evening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right," the Lieutenant General spoke. "We know our
      disadvantages, including that we don't actually <em class="calibre8">know</em> all
      the things they can do. But there is one large advantage which I am
      willing to bet we have over them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Numbers," Major General Smith said grimly. "If there's one
      thing I gathered from the glimpses we saw, it's that there really
      aren't that many wizards. Their Minister thought that a single
      potioneer working for half a year was a lot – you don't say that
      sort of thing when you've got thousands working under you. I'm
      going to hazard a guess that there's a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> more of us than
      there are of them. That's why they have to resort to subterfuge
      rather than outright attack."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Agreed," the Lieutenant General nodded. "I think we can safely
      say that the enemy controls our government – if they don't already
      do so, then they will doubtless succeed before the end of the week.
      But they could never control all the <em class="calibre8">people</em>. We have
      <em class="calibre8">anarchy</em>, gentlemen, but this doesn't have to be a
      disadvantage. We have seen this weekend that ordinary civilians
      <em class="calibre8">can</em> form a real threat to a wizard. Those people had only
      hand-made weapons – just think how much could be accomplished with
      proper explosives, grenades, dynamite, or even with handmade
      weapons designed to fight humans, like smoke bombs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hold on," one of the men who hadn't yet spoken piped up. "Do
      you want to arm the general population?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," the Lieutenant General said simply. "It's our best hope.
      We'll open up our military bases, hand out proper weapons to
      willing citizens, tell them that the government is likely
      compromised, and pass on the word how to make Molotov cocktails,
      smoke bombs and pepper bombs. No matter what the wizards pull,
      there will always be people left who can resist them unless they
      manage to wipe out sixty million people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But the consequences!" The man protested."Putting weapons in
      the hands of untrained people –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"– is better than having those same people completely
      defenseless," the Lieutenant General said authoritatively. "Yes,
      accidents can happen, but even if we lose ten of us for every one
      of them we can kill, that's a win."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But what about afterwards? If you give the people weapons, you
      can't just <em class="calibre8">undo</em> that, they'll always be out there,
      accidents or abuse waiting to happen!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can worry about the future <em class="calibre8">after</em> we reassure that
      we have one," Darrens bit. "It really isn't <em class="calibre8">that</em> big a
      deal. We'll still exercise some discretion as to what weapons are
      handed to who, I'm not proposing we hand a barrel of guns to the
      first lowlife who asks for it! The main thing is that we spread the
      power around the country, to allow enough people to give a good
      fight. If, in the future, anyone wants to run amok with heavy
      weapons in peacetime, they can already make explosives themselves
      anyway."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What you're suggesting is a complete civil war," Major Meldon
      spoke carefully. "With wizards controlling the government, but
      ordinary citizens forming militias... neither side is going to win
      that easily, it's going to be <em class="calibre8">long</em> and <em class="calibre8">bloody</em>. I
      suppose, compared to the alternative, it <em class="calibre8">may</em> be preferable
      because it allows a shred of hope of freedom, but... Unless you're
      counting on UN interference?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lieutenant General Darrens shook his head. "I don't expect the
      UN to intercede, no. There's wizards in other countries too, and
      somehow I don't think they'll be on our side. It's entirely
      possible that the UK is just a test run, that the end goal is
      wizard domination across the globe, so the other countries will
      have their own hands full. Also, the UN really doesn't have much to
      offer that we don't already have by ourselves. No, my suggestion
      was going to be a preemptive strike."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"With what target?" one of the other brigadiers asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Every target</em>," Darrens stated with fire in his eyes.
      "We'll take down every single magical place we can find in one big
      sweep. It'll devastate them enough to buy us time, and if we
      capture some of the enemy, we can use that time to experiment with
      their abilities. The teleporting makes it difficult, but maybe they
      can't do that if they're tied up? Or if we keep them drugged? I'm
      sure the scientists can figure something out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How will you find such targets of opportunity?" Major General
      Smith said sceptically. "Looking for missing house numbers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, I was thinking of somewhat larger targets." The Lieutenant
      General reached for his bag and drew forth a number of maps. "You
      must realize that magic <em class="calibre8">can</em> be detected. As that teenager
      over in Winsford figured out, it's all about noticing anomalies,
      like a missing house number. Over the years, many people have
      reported such anomalies. Strangely dressed people arriving and
      mysteriously disappearing on a London train station every year on
      the same day, to name an example. Or a pub that certain people can
      only see from the corner of their eyes. And then one of my computer
      experts got some <em class="calibre8">very</em> peculiar results when analyzing
      satellite images in Russia, and she wrote a little program to look
      for more such apparent errors before word came from above that it
      was 'known, and highly secret'. Then there's the fact that a number
      of people – maybe one in a hundred, or in a thousand, I never
      tested it properly – can <em class="calibre8">see</em> things in such places when
      they know there's something special there. Like a pub, or a weird
      monument, or an extra street."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you want to send in the soldiers who can see those places
      and abduct any wizards they come across?" Thomas asked with a
      frown. <em class="calibre8">Squibs</em>, he realized. They wouldn't be able to get
      into all the places, but they should at least be able to see Diagon
      Alley, and probably St. Mungo's too. But how did Darrens know that?
      There weren't <em class="calibre8">that</em> many Squibs. Had he actually been
      experimenting with this for years? To what end?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Where necessary," Darrens nodded. "Ideally, we try to use
      explosives to make those areas visible first, like the Winsford mob
      did. Unfortunately, quite a few of those places are in busy areas,
      so we're a bit limited in how much we want to do. Here, for
      example," he rifled through the maps and put one of London on top,
      "there is the pub I mentioned, and if I estimate correctly, there's
      something big behind it. These places over here –" he pointed at
      two other small circles "– are too close to normal people too. But
      where possible, we should send in the soldiers, or use heavier
      artillery. I've got the codes to launch nuclear missiles."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Woho!" One of the men Thomas didn't know jumped out. "Are you
      frigging <em class="calibre8">nuts</em>? Throw atomic bombs on your own
      country?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A few of these places are <em class="calibre8">far</em> from civilization," the
      Lieutenant General pointed out. "It would serve to make an
      excellent point and have relatively little ill consequence for our
      people."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I, too, would rather avoid nuclear missiles," Thomas said
      sharply. "I do not believe this is warranted, and if we actually go
      down that path we'll have nuclear radiation issues for years in the
      future!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That, or the wizards contain it," Smith suggested. "They have
      magic, don't they? And if they cannot handle that, we might just
      have something to use against them. I say it's a good idea, if we
      can keep the contamination in hand somewhat. One thing though, I
      think we shouldn't hit <em class="calibre8">all</em> the areas we know about,
      because then the survivors will just hide in the ones we
      <em class="calibre8">don't</em> know anything about. We don't want them feeling
      safe. Hit some areas hard, really hard, but leave a couple others
      open. Save those for later. Make them <em class="calibre8">paranoid</em>. That kind
      of atmosphere might help to create a route for negotiation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thomas looked helplessly around the table. He had one ally,
      maybe, one sane person. The others looked all too eager; they
      wanted revenge after the brutal killings, torture and a few days of
      tactical warfare. He could protest, but he wasn't going to be able
      to stop this insanity. Perhaps that was what Darrens had intended,
      when he invited exactly this group, to create legitimacy in numbers
      while remaining unopposed? None of the other men Thomas knew were
      of a cautious nature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">But then why am I here?</em> Had something – faith, perhaps
      – conspired to get someone on the side of the wizards invited to
      this meeting? Had Darrens mistaken him for a man as unrestrained as
      the others?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's a reasonable tactic," Major Meldon agreed, "but what
      targets <em class="calibre8">do</em> we hit? I see a lot of circles here, but it
      doesn't say what is there. I don't really want to hit a hospital or
      a school or something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">They</em> didn't care about burning a hospital with
      patients still in it," Sandon bit. "Why should <em class="calibre8">we</em>? I say
      go for it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Darrens was already grabbing another map, one of the whole
      island this time. "All right then. I'd propose <em class="calibre8">these</em> areas
      for nuclear and regular strikes."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thomas's heart skipped a beat when the man pointed at a small
      figure eight shaped spot in the Scottish Highlands.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">-o-o-o-o-o-</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong></strong> With regards to
      the session in the House of Commons: unfortunately, I know next to
      nothing about how such sessions normally go, so I apologize for any
      strangenesses that don't really fit the British system, and hope I
      got it roughly right. :)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Speaker (as some helpful readers explained) is a formal
      chairman-like position. While <em class="calibre8">normally</em> all conversation
      would go via the Speaker, I think that in this case it makes sense
      to simply have the members of parliament directly address Fudge, as
      he is an outsider giving an information session.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some readers brought up that it's strange that Fudge wouldn't
      know Quirrell's name. However, Quirrell was introduced to him as
      something on the lines of "the Hogwarts Defense Professor
      (<em class="calibre8">claiming</em> to be Quirinius Quirrell, although that's
      probably just an assumed identity) who seems to have gone rogue,
      supposedly the same person as David Monroe, although Albus
      Dumbledore is saying he was actually Lord Voldemort all along". As
      such, Fudge has a good reason not to remember the first name, but
      that isn't something he can easily explain to Muggles.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
