<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 104: The Muggle War, Pt 3, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s24" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 104: The Muggle War, Pt 3</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">With a *crack* of Apparition, Professor McGonagall reappeared on
      the forest ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not just Hogwarts," she said heavily. "I don't know
      exactly what is happening, but the Ministry is in complete chaos.
      Apparently there have been attacks just about everywhere. The
      visitor entrance to the Ministry has been closed and there was a
      group of Aurors in the Atrium, like they were expecting trouble
      there. I could hardly find anyone to even speak to; most of the
      competent people were either gone or completely swamped.
      Shacklebolt told me that if we weren't in any immediate danger,
      we'd better stay where we are, because that put us in better
      position than most people!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's crazy," Harry bit. "We're completely exposed here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were sitting in a small circle away from the others: the
      Hogwarts staff and Michael, Harry and Hermione. Some of the
      teachers had raised an eyebrow when Harry inserted himself and
      Hermione into the meeting, but Professor McGonagall had immediately
      included them, asking Hermione to send her Patronus to Professor
      Dumbledore. The Headmaster, it turned out, was still alive, but he
      was occupied and had little more to say than to put Professor
      McGonagall in charge of the student body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I spoke to a man on the magical maintenance team," Professor
      McGonagall continued. "For what he could tell me, there have been
      bombs on several major magical sites away from Muggle cities, at
      least some of them nuclear bombs. Muggles are also clearing the
      areas immediately around other places like the Ministry and St.
      Mungo's, so they might be planning to attack overnight. They even
      supposedly managed to get into Diagon Alley. The man only knew
      second-hand information, but what he said sounded plausible, and we
      already know several family houses have been attacked. If we're
      going to relocate, I have no idea where to. Nowhere in the
      wizarding world seems safe."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nowhere near Muggles either," Professor Sprout murmured sadly.
      "Present company excepted, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael just shrugged. Harry would have expected him to be more
      uncomfortable as the only Muggle in the group, but his one week of
      teaching at Hogwarts had made him more familiar with magic, and
      Professor McGonagall had explicitly invited him into this meeting.
      Petunia had also been invited, but she had preferred to stay with
      the younger children. "Of course. But why not take the children
      abroad? Hermione can take anyone anywhere at will, can she
      not?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tensions abroad are not as great as here," Professor Snape
      conceded. "But I wouldn't dare go anywhere near magical sites
      there, either. The risk that foreign Muggle governments will take
      the same view is too large. For that matter, as far as I could
      tell, the British Muggle government has been completely
      dysfunctional for some days. These attacks may well have been
      perpetrated by a foreign agency, and in that case we do
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> want to relocate to the seat of their own power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It might not have been any government at all," Michael
      contradicted him. "I'm not an expert in military security, but for
      what little I know, the command chain to fire nuclear weapons
      allows for several shortcuts in case of emergencies. I've even
      heard of an American facility where the launch codes were all set
      to a sequence of zeros, although I'm not sure whether that's true
      or just an urban legend. Regardless, I would guess that it was
      simply someone in our military."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps," Snape shrugged, "but I wouldn't gamble on it. Being
      near magical areas, whether here or abroad, is a greater risk than
      staying put."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What about abandoned areas abroad?" Hermione suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You forget Apparition!" Professor Flitwick squeaked. "It's
      important not to be completely dependent on a single phoenix, Miss
      Granger. If anything happens abroad, the children won't be able to
      Apparate home, or even Apparate at all, if they've never been
      anywhere close enough."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to mention," Snape added, "other magical governments might
      not be too pleased if we take our war to their borders. Consider
      this. We are in a random piece of forest in the middle of nowhere.
      No one even has a reason to <em class="calibre8">suspect</em> we're here, and the
      foliage stops notice from above. Even in the unlikely event that
      someone in an airplane would notice us, they would not be able to
      tell us from Muggles. We have complete obscurity, in short. Add to
      that the number of people – staff <em class="calibre8">and</em> students – who may
      contribute to warding the area, and I imagine we are safer here
      than we would be anywhere else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But we have no ward stones," Professor Sprout protested. "It
      would take at least a day to find a good set and adjust them to the
      location."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't need them, Pomona!" Professor Flitwick squeaked. "We
      can group-cast a large shield, and sleep in turns to keep it
      active. I'll get all the N.E.W.T. students in the Charms and
      Defense classes to join in! It will only be needed for one or two
      days at most, until things calm down enough that the children can
      safely go home. We'll put on some Notice-Me-Not, large-scale
      Protego, Muggle repelling, maybe Disillusionment..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wait," Harry cut in. "Would this be the kind of thing that
      causes an empty patch on a photograph, or not being able to look
      down from a plane, or maybe people arriving somewhere they weren't
      intending to go? Because I'm pretty sure that that will also draw
      the wrong kind of attention."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flitwick nodded. "You are right of course, we should avoid such
      issues. I'll take care of it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what about dark wizards? We're all focusing on Muggles
      right now, but should we be afraid for any Death Eater activity
      while we're here?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since many of the Death Eaters have children at Hogwarts,"
      Professor Snape said impatiently, "I expect they would prefer not
      to endanger them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right, I guess we have a plan then!" Flitwick got up, and
      started calling out for his N.E.W.T. students. With some final
      words, Professor McGonagall ended the meeting and the other
      teachers and Michael got up and dispersed. Harry, however, stayed
      put. There was little he could do to help, and he had a few things
      to think about.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What about Professor Quirr– Voldemort?</em> he wondered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I vote that we just call him Tom Riddle from now on,</em>
      Ravenclaw suggested. <em class="calibre8">It is more comfortable than the word
      'Voldemort', more convenient than 'You-Know-Who' and, unlike
      'Professor Quirrell', may actually refer to the original person
      rather than a front.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Fine, fine,</em> Harry thought, <em class="calibre8">Riddle. Shouldn't we be
      worrying about what he's doing?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I am going to put forward the opinion that he caused
      this,</em> Slytherin suggested. <em class="calibre8">It's a little too convenient
      that not only did the husband of a witch find out about the bomb in
      time to get a warning off, the attack also took place at
      dinnertime, when it was very easy to get everyone out of Hogwarts
      because almost the entire school was collected in the Great
      Hall.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">In that case,</em> Hufflepuff said ponderously, <em class="calibre8">he never
      wanted to kill any of us. He's just making a point about nuclear
      weapons.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And royally biasing everyone against Muggles in the
      process,</em> Slytherin added grimly. <em class="calibre8">The destruction of
      Hogwarts will be a powerful rallying point. And we already know he
      probably doesn't want to kill us – we're going to have to rule the
      country, remember?<br class="calibre4"/></em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">This may mean that we're in no danger from him, at the
      moment,</em> Ravenclaw said thoughtfully. <em class="calibre8">And by extension, the
      other students are safe because they're near us.</em> <em class="calibre8">But I
      would not assign this a greater than eighty percent probability.
      Then again, if he</em> wants <em class="calibre8">to harm the students, he could
      probably succeed no matter what we do.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry?" A voice to his side asked. "What are you thinking
      about?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry turned his head to see Hermione, still sitting next to
      him. "Just considering what might be going on. I'm not sure how
      much danger we're in, here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, is there anything we could do to be in less danger?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked grim. "That's what I'm trying to figure out."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"One of our cadets noticed something peculiar during a test
      flight," the voice emanating from the telephone explained. They
      were on speaker, with several of the officers listening in.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The captain, as the senior officer, was the first to speak.
      "<em class="calibre8">Peculiar</em>? Was magic involved somehow?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems extremely likely," said the RAF officer on the other
      side. "We found that the young pilot had diverged from his
      scheduled flight plan, yet he couldn't account for the divergence
      and was confused about his own decisions. Given his excellent track
      record, we suspected that something more might be at play, and sent
      in others to scout the area where he must have gone off target. We
      have pinpointed several locations, lying in a rough circle, where
      the planes seem to go off track. We have not been able to confirm
      anything beyond that, however."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The captain frowned. "Do you think you have been found out? A
      sudden large number of planes would surely be suspicious."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not that suspicious in the area, we regularly test our flights
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are pulling our people away from the place to avoid notice
      regardless," the voice continued. "But we will fax you the
      coordinates. As you are the nearest military base, you may have to
      make preparations to respond in case of enemy action. We are also
      notifying the major police stations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Understood. Thank you for the information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The call ended, and the captain looked around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are <em class="calibre8">not</em> engaging," she spoke firmly. "We will be on
      the alert in case specific action is warranted, but I have not the
      slightest intention of sending troops into magical territory
      without good reason. Despite what <em class="calibre8">some</em> would have us
      believe, we are not at war with these wizards." She glared sternly
      at the faces in the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"According to the Major –" one of the lieutenants started to
      protest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Major is acting on his own volition! His words made it very
      clear that there was no legal basis for his commands. I will not
      support this madness and throw us into something we have neither
      understanding of nor business interfering with. Am I clear?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Ma'am."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Randall didn't say a word that might reveal his true feelings,
      even as he inwardly seethed at the captain's cowardice. He kept his
      face calm as they debated briefly on the preparations to be done,
      before finally the lower officers were dismissed and filed out to
      their respective duties.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No engagement</em>. With barely a moment's thought, the
      captain had rejected all initiative towards the wizards, even
      further intelligence-gathering. How much more evidence did she need
      to see that they were at war? The government had gone silent –
      missing? – while power plants were destroyed, planes were crashed
      and civilians were attacked left, right and center. Their own high
      military command had recognized the reality of the situation and
      taken the unprecedented step of ordering the armature of the
      general population. Yet despite all this, the captain saw only
      strict rules, standardized protocols and risks. She didn't see the
      terror of the people. <em class="calibre8">She</em> hadn't seen the tears on the
      face of Randall's eight-year-old niece when she learned that she
      would most likely never have the use of her right hand again, after
      a doorknob had chewed on it. <em class="calibre8">She</em> hadn't spoken to the
      dozens of terrified people who'd joined them in the cafeteria of
      that hospital, many of whom had friends or relatives losing fingers
      or their whole hand, or who had got heavily injured just a week
      before. <em class="calibre8">She</em>, apparently, was happy to sit in a bubble of
      imagined safety, waiting until the world collapsed around her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It didn't matter. The captain would end her shift soon, and then
      <em class="calibre8">he</em> would be the commanding officer, as long as he didn't
      breathe a word of his plans. He would, naturally, have access to
      the coordinates for the wizardly presence. And then – well, they
      had been given explicit orders from the Major to arm responsible
      elements of the general population. The captain might not be happy
      with his insubordination to <em class="calibre8">her</em>, but once she woke up,
      she'd be too late to do anything about it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">In the end, Harry simply decided to keep watch. He could push
      himself to stay awake until 4am, go back in time six hours, sleep
      under the invisibility cloak Dumbledore had given him, and then
      stay awake for the rest of the night. If Tom Riddle came near,
      Harry would know by the feeling of Doom. It wasn't much of a
      protection, and he'd be a little sleep-deprived, but he felt better
      for guarding the students all the same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">First, however, he needed to discuss with his parents.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He found the both of them with a group of students playing
      <em class="calibre8">Hints</em>. "Mum, Dad, can I talk to you in private for a
      bit?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They immediately followed him. "What's wrong, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry cast a silencing barrier. "I don't know how safe the two
      of you are here. I had you brought to Hogwarts because it was
      pretty well protected, but what Flitwick and the older years are
      setting up here doesn't come anywhere close. It may be better if
      the two of you <em class="calibre8">actually</em> go to Canada."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." Surprisingly, it was Mum who answered. "We're needed here,
      Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. "How so? What can you do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can distract the children. Keep them from panicking – a lot
      of them were very restless before I got them all playing games.
      Most of your schoolmates are really upset, and your teachers don't
      have the time to comfort them, or to keep them busy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what is more," Dad added, "all these children have just
      been attacked by Muggles. Many have lost everything they had. Add
      that to the way we have been portrayed in that strange newspaper in
      the last few days... I would say the most important thing we can do
      right now is to stop that seed of hatred from taking root. Show
      them that Muggles are just like them, like your mother has been
      doing by being her usual loving self." He fondly wrapped an arm
      around his wife's waist.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry hesitated. His parents were right, they <em class="calibre8">could</em> do
      a lot of good here, but –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Staying here might <em class="calibre8">really</em> be dangerous, though. We're
      in the middle of a war where all three sides may have it in for
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dad frowned. "If that's really true, are you planning to come
      with us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry slumped. "I'm needed here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mum snorted. Dad nodded. "Then we're staying. Don't worry so
      much, Harry. I would say the adults have it in hand. Your teachers
      made a good case that it's safer here than anywhere else."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Only if you can Apparate.</em> But it <em class="calibre8">was</em> probably
      true that being near Harry was a protection in itself, and so was
      being near Hermione, as she would be able to take care of most
      emergency evacuations and would not discriminate against Muggles.
      "All right, then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He left his parents behind and went to find Hermione, and then
      to have some words with Professor Flitwick.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">With a burst of flame, Hermione appeared on Platform Nine and
      Three Quarters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked around. No evidence of Muggles nearby. Perfect.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The platform would certainly fit all the students, and since it
      existed in an extended magical space could not possibly be seen
      from satellite photos. There were weaknesses, certainly – most
      importantly, the barrier that separated the platform from the rest
      of King's Cross Station. The magic that allowed interaction with
      the mundane world was rooted in the barrier; it it should be
      destroyed, then at the very least the Air-Freshening Charms would
      cease working, meaning a slow suffocation for all within, while the
      space itself contracted until nothing remained. But that only made
      it a bad <em class="calibre8">long-term</em> solution. If another emergency
      evacuation should be necessary, the platform seemed like a pretty
      good bet to hide for a few hours, safely away from Muggle eyes and
      still inside the country, so Apparition would not be an issue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She gave herself a little nod, and went to check the home ground
      of a native (and now mostly dead) tribe in the Amazon as a second
      backup location.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Magical lanterns were conjured and hung between the trees, the
      last pieces of dinner eaten. The foliage overhead was enchanted to
      merely look thick and dark, so no passing airplanes would see
      anything unusual. Insects and small animals were dispelled to the
      edge of the ward line, which Flitwick himself drew up: a golden
      circle that surrounded the camp site, the basis to build heavier
      wards on top of. Most of the staff and the older students joined
      in, adding layer upon layer of protection to the wards, and setting
      a line of Muggle repelling charms ten meters away from the main
      wards. The group shielding was a work of art, with teachers
      awarding House points to those N.E.W.T. students adding the best
      protections to the shared project. Many of the younger students
      watched; others passed the time holding small duels or playing
      games with each other. The atmosphere grew a bit more relaxed;
      whatever may have happened to Hogwarts, everyone here was still
      alive, and safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally, sleeping bags were conjured, the lights extinguished,
      and students and staff prepared for the night. Harry sat himself
      down by the large tree he had selected for his later self to sleep
      underneath, and watched the older students who guarded the wards,
      staying awake to maintain the shield. Every half hour, he invisibly
      walked around the ward line, watching, listening.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was well past midnight when they came.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Defense Professor stared in surprise at the many
      hundreds before him, the Muggles who had touched the detection webs
      he had woven in a wide circle around the campsite. He had not done
      this. Somehow, some way, these people had come by their own
      initiative.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps it wasn't surprising; many things had happened these
      past days that he had not set into motion directly. Attacks from
      wizards on Muggles and Muggles on wizards alike... It was truly a
      marvel how easily people allowed themselves to be manipulated. A
      few nudges here and there, that was all it had taken for the whole
      thing to take off magnificently. But how had these Muggles known to
      come here?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Silently, he entered the mind of one of the men and searched for
      answers, but he found only anger, a thirst for revenge, and a large
      amount of alcohol. The next three were not much better. But the
      fifth, at last, had a plan, and knew the exact place they were
      going to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was his own circle. The Muggle- and machinery-repelling
      lines, spelled to be raised when a large object passed through his
      detection ward. He had placed it to protect the children of
      Hogwarts after their flight, as they were a little too exposed for
      his tastes, too vulnerable for sudden attack from the air. But
      apparently, the wards themselves had drawn attention. He silently
      smirked. Perhaps he <em class="calibre8">was</em> responsible after all.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Never mind, he could stop it easily; he could kill them all
      before they managed to get much further, or simply knock them out,
      or send them away without memories of their intentions. But should
      he? Here was a golden opportunity. The Muggles were many, but the
      children of Hogwarts were trained well; if it would come to a
      fight, they should be able to hold their own. With losses, perhaps,
      but that was not unacceptable. If the worst of the risks could be
      averted –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His hands already held the parchment, and with a flick of his
      wand, a list of conditions appeared on it. Another flick, and the
      paper disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In another place, his servant would receive the instructions,
      and wait for two hours without further awareness of the outside
      world. Then his servant would test the conditions and give the
      answer to the child with the Time-Turner, who would return to the
      present and read it. If the answer was YES, the child would send it
      to him before five minutes had passed. If it was anything else, or
      if she found that time travel would lead to a contradiction, he
      would simply not receive an answer. It was the safest precaution,
      the best way to guarantee that his actions would not ruin his
      goals. If he did intercede, choosing the safe course, the
      conditions would almost certainly be satisfied. However, if
      allowing the Muggles would not affect the conditions either, if
      every future path was safe, then there was nothing to prevent his
      servant from verifying the conditions; in that case, the most
      likely stable time loop was one where he received a YES. If the
      decision to allow the Muggles to pass through would have adverse
      effects, then there was no stable time loop where he received a
      YES; most likely the time travel would not be permitted, and he
      would never receive an answer. Either way, he knew what to do.
      There was a chance of false negatives – he might be prompted to
      interfere when there was no need to, if Time caused issues – but an
      answer that it was safe would always mean that it was safe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A new parchment appeared in his hands, with a large capitalized
      YES written on it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The former Defense Professor smiled a cold smile and lifted his
      wards.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius Flitwick was roused by a hand on his shoulder and a
      whispered voice. "Professor, I think there's people nearby."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You don't need to whisper," Harry Potter's voice spoke
      impatiently from not too far away. "We're behind a one-way
      silencing barrier, remember? And is there any reason why we
      wouldn't want to wake everyone up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius was already wide awake and casting a number of
      sense-improvement charms: augmented listening, dark vision, far
      sight. He shushed his students and turned his senses outwards.
      There were people there – many! They were dressed in dark clothes,
      many with hoods, and carrying items Filius did not recognize.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Where are they?" A man asked in a low voice.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Invisible no doubt," another voice sneered. "Try checking
      whether there's stuff you</em> don't <em class="calibre8">see."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Hey, look over there!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Squinting to see even with his magically improved eyesight,
      Filius found what the men had seen and his breath choked. Beneath
      the moonlight glinted a tiny fragment of silver, a fraction of a
      line; a small part of the foundation of the Muggle repelling wards
      which had not been cast carefully, and had been overlooked by the
      warding group.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Oh yes, we're at the right place all right!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius muted his extra senses and turned to his anxious
      students. "They're looking for us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was bad. The outer warding circle, since it was the largest
      and furthest away from the people maintaining its magic, was very
      light. It would have kept unsuspecting Muggles from coming too near
      the campsite, but unfortunately it did not seem like the word
      <em class="calibre8">unsuspecting</em> applied to these people.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"WAKE UP EVERYONE," Harry Potter's <em class="calibre8">Sonorus</em>-strengthened
      voice reverberated over the campsite. "HAVE YOUR WAND READY. BUT
      <em class="calibre8">STAY PUT."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you <em class="calibre8">want</em> everyone panicking?" A sixth-year student
      nearby snapped at him as people all around jolted awake and
      questions of "<em class="calibre8">what?</em>" and fearful crying sounded
      everywhere.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry Potter just shrugged. "I want them to be prepared."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius wasn't going to spend time on the argument. "Sixth and
      Seventh Years!" He shouted in a tone of command. "Reinforce the
      wards!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He focused his hearing outwards again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I... How did I... Where am I..."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"They've done something here to confuse you, and make you
      want to go away. Chill."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Whamm!</em> An explosive of some kind had been thrown and
      gone right through the Muggle repellers, landing on the forest
      ground and lighting up the area in a burst of flame. Filius yelped
      and canceled the hearing charms, then quickly healed his ears. The
      explosive hadn't hit the wards – the ten meter distance
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> been a very good idea, even if it did cost more
      magical energy to maintain it like that – but nearby, several young
      children started crying loudly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger," Professor McGonagall spoke clearly, over the
      terrified sounds from the students. "You have explored alternative
      areas for evacuation, haven't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes Professor," Hermione Granger said from somewhere nearby.
      "Platform Nine and Three Quarters should work pretty well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go check it out. Children, group up. Young children together, I
      want you out first. Older students, do <em class="calibre8">not</em> abandon the
      shield. We should have plenty of time to get everyone out of
      here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Boom!</em> <em class="calibre8">Crash!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The smell of petrol filled the air and smoke pricked his eyes,
      even as the fire sizzled out quickly. Some of the Muggles had
      managed to hit the shield with some kind of fireworks. They might
      not be able to look directly at their target due to the
      Notice-Me-Not enchantments, but they could figure out roughly what
      the line was that they couldn't pass, and simply aim right ahead
      from there. The campsite was large enough to be hit by such a
      strategy. But Minerva was right; their shield was powerful, the
      Muggle weapons nowhere near strong enough. With this many people
      pouring their strength into the wards, nothing that wouldn't also
      kill all the Muggles around them had a chance of penetrating it.
      Magical attackers might have tried other tricks, but Muggle
      abilities were too limited, in variation if not in power.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Filius smiled confidently as he fed more magic into the
      shield.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">With a burst of flame, Hermione appeared on Platform Nine and
      Three Quarters.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took her a moment to register the human figures all around
      the platform, the soldier uniforms, and then it was already too
      late to react. She heard the blasts of gunshots even as she felt a
      sharp pain in her stomach, side and chest, and then someone cursed
      and another voice shouted "<em class="calibre8">stop!</em>"–</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a faint feeling of longing to just go <em class="calibre8">home</em>, she
      fell down on the stone ground, the pain starting to numb as the
      blood streamed out of her body and all sounds turned to a distant
      buzz. She didn't even feel the flames engulf her as she sank into
      darkness.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Explosions were coming from all directions. More and more
      Muggles were collecting just outside the edges of the wards,
      hundreds of them.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was tensing up. <em class="calibre8">Where was Hermione?</em> She was
      supposed to have been back in about ten seconds, but she'd been
      gone for several minutes now. The younger. students had been neatly
      divided into year-groups, each year split into two or three. That
      was one comfort: at least his army was near him. But the greater
      situation was getting more and more worrying. Harry wasn't sure
      whether he should be more anxious about what might be happening
      that could hold up Hermione or about the rest of them, but the
      simple fact was that the evacuation plans were all centered on
      Hermione and Xare. If for whatever reason they were inconvenienced,
      the students would have to use side-along Apparition, which was
      difficult because most of the people capable of doing that were
      needed to maintain the shield. Nor could they go after Hermione
      without at least a few powerful wizards available, and the teachers
      would probably prioritize the many over the one right now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was one obvious solution. <em class="calibre8">End it quickly.</em> Then
      they could get the hell out of here and launch a rescue mission, if
      Hermione still hadn't come back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Be ready," he said out loud. "You only need one hand to hold
      your neighbor by the shoulder. Keep your wand in the other. Pass
      the word, make sure everyone's prepared for battle, as long as they
      keep holding on to each other."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Who died and made you the boss?" A second-year nearby
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No one did," Harry said calmly. "But I don't think any of the
      teachers has ever led a battle. Those who fought in the last war
      all followed Dumbledore, and he's not here right now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Eh, I wouldn't be so worried," Ron muttered from somewhere
      nearby. "That shield's going to hold for a while."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It costs you nothing to have your wand ready," Seamus snapped
      at him. "Are you thinking of something, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't just sit and wait while they whittle away at our
      wards," Harry answered. "They're bound to try something smarter
      sooner or later. We stop them before they do that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean, who was also standing near him, frowned. "Do you know
      whether the shield lets our spells through?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not right now," Harry shook his head. He had checked this with
      Flitwick some hours ago. The Charms Professor had explained that
      they were using a version of <em class="calibre8">Protego Maximus</em>, which
      protected from most kinds of attacks and spell fire, but was fully
      symmetric: anything that could go in, could go out. The students
      could make it so that <em class="calibre8">no</em> spells were blocked, but this
      would leave the group exposed to hostile wizards. So Harry had
      suggested to use <em class="calibre8">two</em> layers of <em class="calibre8">Protego</em>, one with
      protection from spells and the other without. "But Flitwick and the
      others can drop the layer that blocks spells, keeping us protected
      from anything Muggles can throw at us while we will be able to
      curse <em class="calibre8">them</em> at leisure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Or we just use Killing Curses," a nearby Slytherin suggested.
      "I bet <em class="calibre8">they</em> go through the shield."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That was, in fact, the first point Harry had thought about, but
      he wasn't going to mention that. "No. We don't want to give them an
      extra reason to start trying to kill us, and it would cost far more
      magical energy than a <em class="calibre8">Somnium</em>. I'm going to talk with the
      Professors. Just keep your wands out, okay? And see that everyone
      else knows that, too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He struggled away from the mass of bodies and looked around for
      Professor Flitwick.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potter! Why are you not holding hands?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked up in Professor McGonagall's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hermione hasn't returned, Professor," he said, ignoring the hot
      ball of fear in his chest at saying those words. "We have to end
      this, quickly. The attackers seem to be entirely non-magical; they
      have weapons but no defenses. We should be able to take them all
      down in five minutes without any casualties. We can drop the
      spell-ward and mass-<em class="calibre8">Somnium</em> the lot."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Flitwick came hurrying over, apparently having
      overheard the conversation. "I was just thinking it might be best
      to go on the offense, Mr. Potter! Massed spell fire will not hit
      all the attackers, but it will make them more hesitant to come
      close, I think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We don't even need to hit many," Harry shrugged. "Just leave
      them there long enough so their friends can see that they're still
      alive. Then summon some of the bodies. That should stop the others
      from throwing more explosives, as they would hit their friends
      before they would hurt us. And <em class="calibre8">then</em> we can
      nego..ti..ate..." He trailed off, suddenly realizing that the sound
      of explosions had stopped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In the distance, outside the wards, a single man had managed to
      pass through the Muggle-repelling barrier; thrown, apparently, by
      three tall men behind him. The man's frantic scream cut off as they
      turned to look at him, and he shook, but composed himself, and
      scrambled up from the ground. A tall, muscular man, he looked
      imposing as he spoke: "Come forward, then, if you're hiding
      there."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A complete silence was his only response. Even inside the wards,
      conversation stopped as everyone turned to listen to the man.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You murder our people," the man spoke with a passionate hatred
      in his voice. "You corrupt our leaders. You torture and mutilate
      our children. This is going to end <em class="calibre8">tonight</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Filius, if this goes wrong, you're in charge," Professor
      McGonagall said quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wha–"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a *crack* of Apparition, Professor McGonagall disappeared,
      and reappeared outside the wards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," the man sneered. "At last you dare to show your face."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your anger is misplaced, sir," Professor McGonagall said
      feelingly, "There is no one here but seven hundred school children
      and a handful of teachers. We were forced to evacuate when our
      school was bombed. We mean you no harm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Children?" The man repeated incredulously, even as a few of the
      distant shadows stirred. "So your kind starts young, too? What did
      they teach in that school of yours, murder and torture?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Disable the Disillusionment and the Notice-Me-Not," Professor
      Flitwick commanded. "They are managing to target us anyway. Try not
      to look too combat-ready, everyone."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a ripple in the air, the dome became visible. Several
      people behind the Muggle-repelling line jumped in shock.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Bulbali</em>", McGonagall cast, shooting three bulbs of
      light in the air, which stayed there. The bulbs lit up the area,
      casting Muggle and Magical in a yellow-white light so all could see
      the students clearly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Children</em>," she repeated. "No, we don't teach them to
      murder or torture. They learn to make healing draughts, for
      example, or transfiguring one object into another, or charms to
      move items they cannot carry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those are supposed to be <em class="calibre8">children</em>?" The man snorted.
      "They look like they're about to shoot us. And we all know that
      your kind can look like whatever they <em class="calibre8">want</em> to look
      like!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are seeing only what you <em class="calibre8">want</em> to see," Professor
      McGonagall said sharply. "These <em class="calibre8">are</em> children, almost
      <em class="calibre8">all</em> the magical children between eleven and seventeen in
      our country. They're our hope for a better future!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," the man bit. "They're our future enemies. <em class="calibre8">If</em>
      those are real children, which is a big if, they're just the next
      generation of our enemies." He turned to the people behind him.
      "Don't you see the murder in their eyes? Those supposed
      <em class="calibre8">children</em> are little monsters, set to grow up just like
      their parents! I say kill them before they get the chance!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was cheering and roaring behind him, and all around the
      now-visible campsite, but Harry thought he also saw quite a few
      people shifting. Not everyone was comfortable fighting children,
      and not all of those people could make themselves believe that the
      students were only <em class="calibre8">pretending</em> to be children. But there
      were many who still looked eager, their faces now lit up by the
      glowing orbs, looking out over the children; many cheering, egging
      each other on. Too many. The children <em class="calibre8">did</em> look
      battle-ready, Harry supposed. There hadn't been enough time from
      McGonagall's snap-decision to try talking to the Muggles to get all
      the students looking terrified and maybe crying. But the Muggles
      were also riled up, mob-spirit overriding rational thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are not your enemies!" Professor McGonagall exclaimed.
      "<em class="calibre8">Some</em> witches and wizards do evil, yes, but that's just
      the worst of us, just like the worst Muggles hurt other people.
      <em class="calibre8">Most</em> of us are not like that, <em class="calibre8">most</em> of us just
      want peace. Magic is so much more than what you've seen! It can be
      used for so much good!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And yet you don't!" The man yelled. He was beyond reason.
      "Where are the wizards protecting people? Where are the healers? If
      magic can be used for that, it's all the more unforgivable that you
      just kill and maim and torture!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Drop the outer <em class="calibre8">Protego</em> layer," Professor Flitwick
      commanded behind the wards. "Be ready everyone. Just don't let them
      see you casting, and <em class="calibre8">do not</em> attack until I say so."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We are not all like that!" Professor McGonagall exclaimed
      again. "Our people <em class="calibre8">can</em> live together, we do not need to
      fight!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man smiled humorlessly. "Oh, but we do. You see, we have no
      intention of letting your kind rule over us." With that, he pulled
      a grenade from his pocket, tore out the pin, and threw it at her.
      Her wand flicked upwards and the explosive flew into the air, away
      from humans, where it exploded harmlessly. But the action left her
      open and in that same moment, three more bottles were flung at her
      from the distant repelling line, and slammed into the woman even as
      Harry – standing right behind her inside the wards – yelled an
      inaudible warning.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Flames exploded around her body, reaching high like a bonfire
      before she collapsed, because she had not shielded up before
      leaving the wards. Harry looked up in shock as the man pulled a gun
      and shot repeatedly at the burning body to make sure she was really
      dead.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Take this as a warning," the man yelled. "You are <em class="calibre8">not</em>
      undefeatable, and we will not accept your superiority!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just stared at him, and at the people behind him, still
      bathed in light from the bulbs which had been Minerva McGonagall's
      last magic. The man was shouting something more, and Flitwick was
      yelling to reactivate the Disillusionment, but it passed Harry by
      as he looked at the mass of people in a wave of disbelief. And in
      that moment, finally watching the Muggles closely in full light, he
      noticed that many of them were holding the same peculiar shapes in
      their hands. He squinted, and his heart sank when he saw what the
      items were.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Gas masks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a rush of insight he realized that while the smoke from the
      Molotov Cocktails, grenades and fireworks that still clung to the
      air hadn't penetrated deeply into the camp site, it <em class="calibre8">had</em>
      managed to pass through the wards, and that the Muggles would have
      seen that when the Disillusionment was lifted. And he realized that
      he could smell gasoline and burning, even though all the explosions
      had happened outside the wards. The shield blocked objects and
      probably liquids, but it was clearly permeable to gases.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bubbleheads!" He screamed, at the same time the man yelled
      "<em class="calibre8">Now!"</em>. His wand snapped up. "<em class="calibre8">Sonorus</em><em class="calibre8">!</em>
      CAST BUBBLEHEADS! <em class="calibre8">Bublio!</em>" Behind the speaker, people
      jumped into motion and sudden blasts rang through the night
      sky.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione woke up with the taste of blood in her mouth. She felt
      a little faint, but not hurt. She was lying on something hard and
      wet... the floor?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She opened her eyes and the world spun a moment, but there was
      Xare, sitting on her chest, her eyes looking wet. The bird gave a
      soft <em class="calibre8">caw</em> and fluttered up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Where am I?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She sat up and looked around, thoughts coming sluggishly at
      first. Was this... her parents' house? How had she got here?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The platform... The soldiers...</em> As memory returned
      slowly, she felt queasy. She was sure she had been <em class="calibre8">very</em>
      close to death. Xare must have taken her to safety, healed
      her...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The forest!</em> How long had she been unconscious? The
      clock said it was five past two, but what time had it been when she
      left?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a jump, Hermione was on her feet, Xare on her arm in the
      same instant. <em class="calibre8">Get us back!</em></p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Almost none of the older years got the Bubblehead Charm off
      before the tear gas grenades hit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry watched, helpless to do anything, as the shield just
      <em class="calibre8">evaporated</em>, the people maintaining it no longer able to
      concentrate as they were doubling over, coughing, choking. The next
      volley of tear gas grenades fell all over the camp site, where
      maybe one in ten of the remaining students had managed to cast a
      Bubblehead Charm, and then another rain of explosives hit, this
      time <em class="calibre8">not</em> blocked. "<em class="calibre8">Prismatis!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The timely prismatic wall took the hit, but Harry was flung to
      the ground by the impact, the breath knocked from his body. Dizzy
      for some moments, he finally lifted his head from the ground to
      look at what was happening around him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The sight that met his eyes was one he would never forget.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Broken bodies were scattered across the ground. How many were
      merely unconscious, how many had died in that instant? Wizards and
      witches could take more than Muggles, their bodies' natural magic
      preventing the worst injuries, but there were limits, even with
      purely mundane damage. Men (and women?) in gas masks ran through
      the chaos; the Muggle repelling line must have fallen along with
      the rest. Some had brought guns and were firing at the many
      wounded, others were throwing explosives. Children were screaming
      in pain, others merely flailing around on the ground, coughing and
      choking. Others were still up, Bubblehead Charms active. surrounded
      by <em class="calibre8">Protego</em> shields or Prismatic Spheres. There was a
      glimpse of golden fire in the distance – Hermione? Curses were
      flying around, the attackers falling where they stood, but they
      were too many. It was the chaos of battle, as half the school had
      been training in for most of the year, but this time it was lethal,
      and not everyone had been part of an army. Children, their black
      robes charred or burning, were falling, or blasted away by all
      kinds of explosives. Fires were spreading from tree to tree,
      burning those who had been knocked out, or who were too heavily
      wounded to move. Blood spilled out in liters, and in the distance
      someone screamed a word:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Avada Kedavra!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The small part of Harry that wasn't screaming at the sight
      realized that the attackers were never going to survive this. They
      didn't know what they were dealing with, so they had made
      assumptions and stupidly thought that they could win an actual
      battle against an unknown foe, where the other side had magic. Too
      many of the older students already wore bubbleheads, and they had
      shields that could withstand anything that wouldn't also kill the
      people nearby, and Professor Quirrell had taught them the Killing
      Curse, and they had seen their friends die in front of their eyes
      and could <em class="calibre8">easily</em> summon up the hatred required...</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Do these people deserve to die?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry honestly didn't know. These were child-murderers and
      bigoted vigilantes proud in their ignorance, but they were also
      fathers and brothers who were frightened and might believe that
      they were just doing what was necessary. One thing was certain,
      though. If this massacre ended with all the attacking Muggles dead,
      it would become very hard to achieve peace.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He jumped up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Sonorus!</em> DO NOT KILL THEM! IT WILL ONLY MAKE THINGS
      WORSE! ARMIES, WORK TOGETHER! USE BUBBLE-HEADS!
      <em class="calibre8">Finite.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a moment where the curses stopped, and Muggle heads
      turned to look around for the source of the sound. And then other
      voices went up in the brief silence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Pinini Army, to me!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Mighty Bulls!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Gryffindors, protect the fallen!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Hetero Protego!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A shimmering blue sphere appeared around Harry just as another
      explosion hit, and he was thrown backwards, saved only by the
      powerful shield some anonymous student had cast on him at the last
      moment. His body hurt like hell – had he broken bones in his back?
      – and he didn't think he could stand up anymore, so he just kept
      lying there. <em class="calibre8">Just a few moments.</em> There were more screams
      around, he heard, more choking and gasping, still more explosions.
      But there were also curses, and there was co-ordination. Children
      were working together with each other now, applying everything
      Professor Quirrell had taught them...</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco was coughing, retching; his eyes burned, his throat was on
      fire. He'd dropped his wand somewhere, but he couldn't
      <em class="calibre8">see</em>, so he couldn't cast –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Karete Rif. Bublio.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instantly, his eyes cleared and a bubble appeared over his head.
      He blinked and looked up, seeing a fourth- or fifth-year Hufflepuff
      girl who was already moving away, running towards the next
      spluttering student.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">His wand! Draco looked down and located it quickly. Now he could
      –</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Blam!</em> Draco's head snapped to the left where, not six
      feet away, a Muggle was shooting some kind of Muggle wand at the
      already falling body of the Hufflepuff.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No. This can't be happening. This can't be real.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a smooth motion, the Muggle turned his black wand to
      Draco.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Prismatis!</em>" Draco reacted by sheer reflex just as
      another loud <em class="calibre8">bang!</em> emanated from the Muggle's wand, and
      something bounced off the prismatic shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Somnium! Prismatis!</em>" A girl's voice. In the chaos of
      the battle, he hadn't seen Padma approach, but now she was standing
      right next to him, extending his shield.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It won't hold for the bigger explosions," she panted, "but I
      don't think they'll dare do that, with their own people running
      around here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco didn't respond. He was still staring at the Hufflepuff,
      who was slowly bleeding out on the ground. And now that he was
      looking, he saw more bodies strewn around the forest ground. He
      felt sick to the core.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Snap out of it, General!" Padma bit. "We need to regroup, get
      more people behind the shield."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the "General" that did it. Draco breathed deeply and
      nodded. This was not the time to be in shock. Fortunately, he had
      almost a year of training to fall back on. He looked around,
      forcing himself not to stare at the fallen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bones!" He yelled, spotting the first-year behind a tree
      nearby. "Cover us. Padma, retreat to that oak!"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Neville was backed against a tree, three Muggles approaching
      with some kind of metal thing they were using as a shield. His
      prismatic shield had blocked the first shots they'd aimed at him,
      but now one of them was holding some small metal ball. He didn't
      know what it was, but it couldn't be good.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was nothing for it. He dropped his shield and ran towards
      the attackers. "<em class="calibre8">Special attack, Chaotic Leap!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He didn't know who caught him – they probably weren't chaotic
      legionnaires, because he was twisted <em class="calibre8">sideways</em>, like the
      levitation hadn't been coordinated well or was done by a single,
      stronger person, but it was enough. With three quick
      <em class="calibre8">Somnium</em>s, his attackers fell down. He landed in a roll,
      and looked around for whoever might need his assistance.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The shimmering blue shield around Harry had disappeared long
      seconds ago, but Harry was already on his feet, wand in hand, ready
      for a <em class="calibre8">Prismatis</em> but not yet casting it; you couldn't cast
      spells from behind a prismatic shield, and others might need his
      help. There was shouting all around, but it was hard to see far
      through the smoke drifting everywhere. He took a tentative step,
      ignoring the pain in his body, looking around.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Someone grabbed him from behind and yanked his head back hard
      against a tree, snapping the bubble. His wand was wrested from his
      grip, and a gun placed against his forehead. In his last second,
      Harry stared into a pair of blue eyes, full of hatred...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man collapsed. Petunia Evans-Verres was standing behind the
      man with a thick branch in her hands. And there was another
      gunshot, and she gasped, and fell heavily on the ground as blood
      burst from her chest, and there wasn't time to <em class="calibre8">do</em>
      anything, only a wish that <em class="calibre8">this wasn't happening</em>...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this time, Harry had no Patronus to protect him, or the
      people he loved.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another gunshot cracked, and the masked man who had shot at them
      fell over.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The normally-so-dignified Professor Verres-Evans, his clothes
      torn and splattered with blood threw the gun away, and limped
      towards his wife and child. "Petunia!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Suddenly, a golden light filled the forest, and a <em class="calibre8">will</em>
      of some kind pressed down on Harry. The screams cut off abruptly,
      and everything froze. Father's progress stopped. The student
      running past Harry halted in mid-bounce.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Dumbledore.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">A shrill and wonderful sound pierced the forest, as the phoenix
      sang its battle cry, and as the masked men fell to the ground in a
      surge of power, the fires went out, and the golden light crept over
      the ground, surrounded defenders and attackers alike, healing their
      wounds where it passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He really was the most powerful wizard in the world.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But time had slowed down, not stopped. Harry couldn't move his
      head, couldn't yell, couldn't cast any spell, as he watched his
      mother die in slow-motion.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Blood fell from her chest and mouth, at a speed of one meter per
      minute.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her eyes started to widen. Her mouth started to open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the golden light reached her and enveloped her; her
      chest healed, the bullet that hit her dropped to the ground.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it was already too late. Her eyes continued to widen, her
      mouth continued to gasp, and then time resumed. A small shock ran
      through her body and she exhaled, just as Harry could finally move
      again and half-jumped half-fell to her side.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, Mum, please don't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a small ripple of <em class="calibre8">something</em> in the air, a
      feeling of care and worry, of curiosity and frustration, silly
      giggles and gossiping and an immense amount of love, of all that
      she was; a ripple that was soft and almost inaudible and yet too
      vast to be understood, and it faded before Harry could get a grasp
      on it, as the light in her eyes dimmed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Michael Verres-Evans knelt down beside him, his face screwed up
      in agony, as he put his hand on his wife's neck. He hadn't felt it,
      like Harry had, but he had seen it happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please tell me magic can undo this." His voice choked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is no magic that can bring back the dead," Harry intoned
      hollowly. "Yet."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe science can..." Michael turned his tear-streaked face to
      Harry. "Her brain wasn't hit, if we can get a doctor to her
      <em class="calibre8">now</em> –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can't." Even if he found Hermione, and got her to use Xare
      to move Mum into an emergency room on the spot, the enmity between
      Muggles and wizards would mean that she was more likely to be
      attacked there than helped. "But I can do <em class="calibre8">this</em>." He
      grabbed his wand from where it still lay on the ground, leveled it
      at the body, and poured <em class="calibre8">everything</em> down his arm into his
      hand...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Frigideiro!</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hypothermia?" Professor Verres breathed as Petunia's body
      cooled down. "Can you get it to 5 degrees exactly?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. It'd been one of the spells he and Hermione had
      experimented with, a lifetime ago, so he was able to control it
      exactly. The cold would protect her from brain damage. "But I'm not
      sure what chance a doctor would have, even if we got her to one
      before she warms up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Father hadn't felt it, the outpouring of <em class="calibre8">something</em> as
      she died. But Harry had.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">There's something more to dying than your brain not working
      anymore.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I'll find some way of using magic to do it." He was
      half-speaking to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just said that there was no magic to bring back the dead."
      Tears were streaking father's face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Yet.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, you're <em class="calibre8">eleven</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe. But I'm not going to let that stop me." Harry looked
      into his father's eyes, his gaze turning cold. "I already did two
      things believed impossible, this year. I will do this too. I swear.
      On everything I hold sacred, I swear, I will challenge Death and
      bring Mum back, and my other parents too, and Professor McGonagall,
      and the people who died last week... <em class="calibre8">Everyone."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He expected his father to protest, with all the usual <em class="calibre8">too
      young</em> and <em class="calibre8">Petunia would not have wanted you</em> nonsense.
      But the professor just shook his head sadly, and looked down at his
      wife's body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It was your voice, wasn't it?" He asked a while later.
      "Shouting not to kill them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And I did kill." His voice sounded pained, now, and he stared
      at his hands. "I'm sorry. I can't even believe I did that. If you'd
      asked me yesterday whether I would ever... But when I saw that man
      shoot at you and Petunia –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry said nothing. He just hugged his father long and hard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not a child anymore." It wasn't a question, just an
      observation. "I don't know whether you've gone into puberty or just
      skipped it, but you're not who you were before. You're taking
      command, deciding on other people's lives. And people listen. What
      happened to you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I grew up," Harry said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They sat in silence, waiting for whatever might come next.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">With a flash of phoenix fire, Dumbledore appeared by their side.
      He looked older than Harry had ever seen him. It took the man only
      a moment to take in the sight of Petunia's body, and he choked back
      a pained groan.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Headmaster," Harry said icily. "Where were you, when a bomb was
      about to hit the school and the children in your care had to be
      evacuated? And where were you when a mob of crazy Muggles attacked
      them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Later," the Headmaster bit. "Dr. Verres, can I take you
      elsewhere? I have no capacity to protect you better here than in
      another place, and I fear for what the survivors may do when they
      realize that there is still a Muggle among them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A hospital would be good," Michael Verres-Evans grunted. "She's
      still 5 degrees, isn't she, Harry?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. He had been regularly reinforcing the
      <em class="calibre8">Frigideiro</em>. His father gently took the body of his wife in
      his arms.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not Britain," Harry urged. "Not anywhere where You-Know-Who
      would find him. Go to a dark alley or something, don't let them see
      you phoenix in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not a fool," Dumbledore answered harshly. "I think I have
      seen a bit more of war than you have, young Ravenclaw, even
      counting your experiences in the last week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "I had to be sure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not coming?" his father asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No dad, going into the Muggle world would be <em class="calibre8">suicide</em>,
      even if it's not Britain. It'll be hard enough for you to explain
      what happened without fearing that they'll attack me. But we
      <em class="calibre8">will</em> see each other again. I promise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I love you, son..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then Dumbledore reached out for his arm and the two of them
      disappeared with a flash of fire.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry found Hermione and Neville together, mourning over the
      corpse of Hannah Abbott. The girl, apparently, had bubbled up in
      time, but then jumped into a fight with two of the Muggles as they
      were shooting at children still blinded by the tear gas.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ron Weasley had died in a similar way, as had several other
      Gryffindors; too brave to stay behind and hide and leave the older
      students with fully functional <em class="calibre8">Protego</em> shields to protect
      the unconscious and blinded and sneezing students. Undoubtedly, the
      outcome was better because they had fought. Su had lived, because
      Neville had pulled her out of a fire. Cho Chang, the second-year
      seeker, had managed to drag herself away when Ron engaged the
      Muggles throwing Molotov Cocktails in her direction. Several
      students had been saved by Parvati's use of <em class="calibre8">Aguamenti</em> on
      any burning bodies she saw. The heroic students had saved many who
      would otherwise not have lived. But the price had been really,
      really high.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The battle had lasted not five minutes, but in that time, about
      80 of the approximately 700 Hogwarts students had died, and two
      members of staff: Professor McGonagall and Professor Vector. Most
      of the dead students had died in the first minute of the battle,
      when explosives rained down just as the shield had fallen. Many had
      been wounded, but they lived, and would soon be well again; between
      two Phoenixes and magical healing, gun wounds and third-degree
      burns were almost trivial.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Ernie MacMillan had died. Zacharias Smith. Pansy Parkinson.
      Michael Corner. Ron Weasley. Hannah Abbot. Roderick Murphy. Fay
      Dunbar. Kate Olney. Nitin Divekar. Mildred Peebles. Terry Boot. And
      those were just the ones from Harry's year.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry fought back his tears. To cry was to give up, and he
      wasn't going to give up. He had promised the Demented last Monday
      that he would find a way, and he'd promised his father today, and
      he <em class="calibre8">would</em>. He would bring them all back, no matter how.
      Hermione hadn't frozen Hannah, and Harry had been in too much shock
      to think about doing it for any other casualties than his mother
      before it was too late, but given the impossibility to sustain the
      temperature for long, and the expected lack of co-operation from
      the families, that wasn't likely to have helped regardless. There
      would just have to be another way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He sat himself down by Hermione and Neville in silence, but he
      didn't mourn. He thought.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's my fault," Hermione whispered eventually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just looked at her. "No more than it is mine."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you talking about?" Neville protested. "If you hadn't
      dragged all those unconscious children to your parents' house it
      would have been <em class="calibre8">far</em> worse!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I was <em class="calibre8">responsible</em>," she said with a choke. "If only I
      hadn't been too preoccupied with escape to consider that we might
      have to fight! If only I'd protested when Professor McGonagall said
      that the most vulnerable children should be together, rather than
      mixed with the stronger students – I'm an army general, I should
      have realized that that was a lethal mistake! If only I'd thought
      to send my Patronus to Professor Dumbledore straight away. How
      could I not have thought of that? If only I'd reacted a little
      sooner to those soldiers, or gone to the Amazon
      <em class="calibre8">first</em>..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry just threw an arm around her, and held her tight as she
      sniffled on his shoulder. He couldn't say that she shouldn't blame
      herself, because it would be unfair to deny her the guilt that he
      assigned to himself as well. But they could at least give each
      other some comfort.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
