<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 107: The Muggle War, Pt 5, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s27" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 107: The Muggle War, Pt 5</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">It was mid-afternoon on Wednesday, when the children were just
      catching a breath after Snape had made them do a series of intense
      emergency escape-drills, when Harry felt a tug on his arm and
      thought he saw a flash of gold. <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">He stood up and left the room, supposedly to the bathroom. In
      the hallway, the old wizard appeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, there is something crucial we need to discuss. Will you
      come with me to the Ministry of Magic? Now?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sure," Harry shrugged. "I doubt my presence is critical to
      operations here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster grabbed his arm, and with another burst of flame,
      Harry reappeared in the Chief Warlock's office, where a soft,
      comfortable chair was already placed in front of the desk. The
      former Headmaster of Hogwarts himself sat down on the chair behind
      the desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At this very moment," he spoke gravely, "a closed session of
      the Wizengamot is debating your emancipation. The vote will pass in
      about thirty minutes time, and I will be sent to collect you, so
      you can take your family seat and participate in further
      discussions."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"About time," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Dumbledore just smiled tiredly. "This is a very
      unusual decision, Harry. A pre-O.W.L. student filing for
      independence would not normally be accepted, even with the full
      support of their guardian. I believe it would not have been
      successful if not for the current crisis, and the rather favorable
      impression you have made recently. I have spoken of the suggestions
      you made yesterday – which are admittedly naive, but have the
      potential to be expanded on since they move in directions we had
      not considered before – and your request to take your family seat
      and be included in the discussions regarding our response to the
      Muggle violence. I have also made them aware that you have
      extensively studied the Muggle world, but stressed that you are
      still a noble child of a witch and a wizard. I may not have been
      entirely truthful in suggesting that you explicitly asked for
      emancipation, but I suspect that I did not misrepresent your wishes
      in doing so regardless."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Correct."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Even with many of the Wizengamot realizing that your expertise
      could be valuable," the old wizard resumed, "the vote might not
      have passed if it were not for your recent trial. It has been
      argued that you have proved your maturity in that instance, as you
      had both ability and inclination to destroy the nation's prison,
      yet chose not to do so. For one who is to be included in the
      Wizengamot immediately on being recognized as an adult, it is
      fundamental that you have shown yourself not to be rash, as Miss
      Granger was in destroying the Dementors surrounding Azkaban, but
      understanding of a precarious political situation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Er... That was the worst decision of my life. Or would have
      been if Hermione hadn't done the job in my place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would strongly suggest that you refrain from mentioning this
      view," the old wizard said with a smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right..." Harry said. "So why the extra thirty minutes?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard took a deep breath. "There is a little more I
      must prepare you for. You see, over the last few days I have not
      merely been trying to get you involved in the decision making
      process; I have been seeking to have you included as an influential
      member from the start. You may find that many of the more
      open-minded people – from all sides of the political spectrum, not
      merely mine – are prepared to view you not as a child but rather as
      a prodigy, a new player on the chess board who is almost certain to
      come into power before long. They will remember that you have
      invented two unprecedented new spells in your first year, managed
      to strike up a friendship with both the Malfoy and Longbottom heirs
      as well as a Muggleborn, and that when you last spoke before the
      Wizengamot, you demonstrated a greater competence than many of its
      members, resolving conflicts and broaching subjects which others
      did not dare to raise. They will also acknowledge your admirable
      foresight in teaching three fellow students your variation of the
      Patronus Charm, which helped to keep last week's tragedy in hand,
      and all are aware of your natural assumption of command in Monday
      night's battle, which may well have saved hundreds of lives. Add to
      that the things many of those same Lords and Ladies have learned
      from their children and grandchildren of your performance in
      school, and the dominance you seem to hold in your year... In
      short, I imagine that you will have a following."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked, taking this in. "If you can run that sort of PR
      campaign on such a short notice, how come you're not ruling the
      world yet?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man smiled. "I merely said you will have <em class="calibre8">a</em>
      following, not that <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> will follow you – not by far.
      And the reason these tales could be circulated into the enemy camp
      is that I did not advocate for you directly, nor does it seem to be
      help <em class="calibre8">me</em> much to gather support for <em class="calibre8">you</em>. You are
      an independent actor, aligned neither with myself nor my opponents,
      and many in the political scene are open to embracing a change of
      its climate and welcome fresh blood – provided, of course, the
      blood in question is moderately pure and clearly powerful. What is
      more, the foundation was already laid. You have no preexisting
      enemies with a motive to bring up less favorable episodes. I feared
      Lord Malfoy's resistance, but he has so far been remarkably silent
      on the issue. But do not be overconfident. Not everyone perceives
      you in the same light; most of the Wizengamot, I imagine, will not
      easily overlook your youth."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded slowly. "That's... useful, I guess. Thank you."
      <em class="calibre8">Since when did</em> he <em class="calibre8">get so cooperative?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What is more," the old man continued. "Amelia Bones and a rare
      few others understand what I have been trying to accomplish. Should
      a suitable situation arise, do not be surprised if Amelia pushes
      for you to be given authority."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry paused. <em class="calibre8">What?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he suddenly understood what the old man was doing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not helping me because you believe I will do a good job,
      are you?" He asked hollowly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard met his eyes. "I <em class="calibre8">do</em> have faith in you,
      Harry. You have a good heart, the idealism I have long been forced
      to lose, and wisdom well beyond your years. But I confess that it
      is not the sole reason I am pushing for you to come into power
      earlier than you otherwise would."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're giving him what he wants," Harry concluded. "You're
      trying to get me put in charge, regardless of what I may do, so
      Riddle will stop interfering. You're <em class="calibre8">losing</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I know you must think me weak." The old man tore his eyes away,
      staring at the wall instead. "For ten long years, I have fought
      Voldemort. Ten years of death, loss, agony. Fighting a losing
      battle, and yet knowing that more people would suffer if I did not
      fight. Then a miracle happened and I got my reprieve, always
      knowing that it could not last forever. And then you came, and you
      told me that he had been holding back all along. That he could have
      won easily, had he only chosen to."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Grief crossed the old face. "People are dying once more, in
      greater numbers than before, and it will only get worse. For all my
      efforts, I have no hope of stopping this war; I can only futilely
      try to mitigate its damage. I cannot bear it anymore, Harry! If we
      have no hope of winning regardless, will it not be better to lose
      quickly, rather than sacrificing numerous lives to only stall the
      inevitable?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," breathed Harry. And he <em class="calibre8">did</em> see. He had given
      the former Headmaster an out, the idea that perhaps he could just
      give up and stop fighting, and the world would be no worse for it.
      And it might even be true.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I expect that, if you should manage to come into power," the
      old wizard continued, "you will not attempt to subjugate Muggles.
      Nor do I expect that –" he trailed off. "Come in!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The door opened and Mad-Eye Moody strode into the room. He
      turned his face to look at Professor Dumbledore, who nodded and
      started casting a number of wordless spells. Finally, he turned
      back to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before we carry on, there is one test we must try, Harry.
      Alastor?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Imperio.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the most wonderful feeling. Harry felt a floating
      sensation as every thought in his mind was wiped away, leaving
      nothing but a vague, untraceable happiness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Yet somewhere inside him, something struggled for
      attention.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">UNTIE YOUR SHOELACES</em>, a voice in his head said. It
      wasn't any of the usual voices, but it carried such a tone of
      command, that his brain almost unquestionably sent the command to
      his hands to obey.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No!</em> said a small voice inside him. Harry's hand halted.
      <em class="calibre8">Where does that voice come from? It is not me!</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">UNTIE YOUR SHOELACES</em> the voice of God repeated in his
      head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">I normally wouldn't just follow random voices in my
      head,</em> the small voice repeated, almost inaudible but
      persistent. <em class="calibre8">I would question where they came from. What has
      changed between then and now?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh, I don't know, maybe the part where the ex-Auror guy
      pointed his wand at us and said Imperio?</em> Harry recognized the
      new voice as his Slytherin side speaking.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Oh. Right.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a rush of disorientation, thought returned to Harry's
      consciousness. He gasped as the dreamlike state lifted. That had
      been <em class="calibre8">weird</em>, listening to his own thought processes as an
      outsider.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He's done it, Albus."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can see that. Thank you Alastor. And Harry, I <em class="calibre8">am</em>
      sorry, but before we proceed with the plan to steer you towards a
      position of influence, I had to know what would happen if you were
      placed under the Imperius Curse."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You just – !"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man looked grim. "I do apologize for violating your free
      will, but if we succeed, and you come into a position of influence,
      we <em class="calibre8">cannot</em> have you controlled by Voldemort or some other
      powerful wizard. Fortunately, the Imperius Curse does not become
      much stronger as the caster's power grows. If you can resist
      Alastor, especially without mental preparation, you can resist
      anyone. I hope you understand the need, and why I did not ask for
      your consent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry breathed deeply, once, twice. He <em class="calibre8">did</em> understand.
      And given that Moody had done nothing worse than trying to make him
      untie his shoelaces, he really didn't have a proper reason to feel
      overly offended about it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Isn't that illegal?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, it is, which is why we are doing this <em class="calibre8">now</em>, as
      opposed to when you go before the Wizengamot. I hardly think you
      are likely to report us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Given how much blackmail material</em> you <em class="calibre8">have on</em>
      me<em class="calibre8">, Headmaster, that's kind of a given.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How does Amelia Bones feel about your doing this? She's in on
      your plans, isn't she?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Partially," the man nodded. "Her main incentive to follow my
      suggestion of leading you into influence is to lay a trap for
      Voldemort, actually. She believes that if we can bring him out into
      the open, her Aurors may have a chance to overpower him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good luck with that," Harry muttered. In the corner, Mad-Eye
      snorted. "Don't underestimate Amelia."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To answer your question," Dumbledore spoke, "she does not
      officially know what I am doing, and is wise enough not to ask. The
      Imperius Curse is illegal, even for testing and teaching purposes,
      and even <em class="calibre8">with</em> consent. There are good reasons for that,
      although yes, I rather believe that an exception is warranted in
      this case. However, I feel that I should mention that your success
      was entirely probable; anyone who knows you and understands the
      spell would have expected you to be able to resist. It takes a
      certain force of personality and rejection of authority, which you
      possess in abundance. In truth, my fear was not so much that you
      would be unable to resist, but rather that it would pass control
      to... certain parts of you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah.</em> If his dark side had been a separate entity, it did
      make some sort of sense that when his consciousness got discoupled
      from his thoughts, his dark side might take over. But it wasn't,
      and it hadn't. Regardless...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you know that that's not what happened?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because the spell was lifted from you, as Alastor sensed.
      Besides, you do not now seem to be the persona you were in January,
      when the Dementor reduced you to the coldest, darkest part of
      yourself." He did not mention Harry's dark side explicitly, Harry
      noticed. Moody had probably not been told about that particular
      detail. Which was a flaw, as Moody might well be able to figure out
      the horcrux thing, but Harry wasn't going to bring it up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">""I see," he said instead. "And, forgive my asking, but are you
      <em class="calibre8">sure</em> it was lifted from me? I mean, I <em class="calibre8">think</em> I'm
      fine again, but I don't have that much experience with the Imperius
      Curse, and maybe that's just what he wants me to think. I'm
      surprised you trusted him to Imperius me, honestly." Moody just
      grinned. That was one good thing about the paranoid ex-Auror: he
      would never be offended by such an accusation.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Former Headmaster smiled, with a glance at his friend. "I am
      certain the spell was lifted from you, Harry, because you can see
      that in the eyes the moment it happens. And I had to rely on him,
      since I cannot cast the spell myself. It was the safest option.
      Alastor cannot be controlled with the Imperius Curse, and I tested
      him beforehand for all disguises known to man. He insisted that I
      do, in fact."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At least you're thinking properly," Moody growled. "That makes
      this whole mess a tiny bit less of a disaster. And it's time. Take
      him away, Albus. I'll see myself out."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stood before the greatest people of the country, thinking
      what a stupid little man Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic,
      seemed to be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mr. Potter," the Minister of Magic was saying in formal tones.
      "A select group of representatives of the Wizengamot have reached
      the decision to honor your request for emancipation and recognize
      you as an adult. This means you will assume formal leadership of
      your house: you will be known as Lord Potter, have full access to
      your family vault, and may assume your family's seat in the
      Wizengamot. You will also be held fully responsible for your
      actions, and judged as an adult for any crimes you should commit.
      Do you accept?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do," Harry answered in an equally formal tone. <em class="calibre8">As long as
      that crime judging part is not retro-active.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome then, Lord Potter," boomed the Chief Warlock. "Feel
      free to take a seat. We shall have suitable robes made for you
      within three days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry carefully climbed up the half-circles, noting how much
      space was free. Many of the Wizengamot must already have left the
      country, and it might not be easy to get back on a regular basis.
      He carefully selected a place right in the middle of the room, away
      both from Dumbledore's and Malfoy's camp. <em class="calibre8">Everyone will know
      that</em> that <em class="calibre8">is a sign.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now that this pointless interlude is settled," a man on the
      Malfoy side spoke, "perhaps we can finally get back to debating the
      current crisis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Mr. Nember," the Chief Warlock nodded. "But please
      do recall that we agreed to debate Lord Potter's emancipation due
      to its relevance to the... other situation. Lord Potter might bring
      a key voice to the debate."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man snorted, but abated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I ask," Harry said. "Exactly what the current status is? I
      was not briefed before being brought here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have confirmation from Sarissa Johnson that not the Muggle
      government, but rather high-ranked figures in their military were
      responsible for Monday's events," Madam Bones answered.
      "Military-grade equipment has been handed out to civilians all over
      the country, and there have been various attacks. We have contacted
      the Prime Minister, but he called for security and we deemed it
      more diplomatic to leave. It also does not seem likely that the man
      has any hold over his people. The Wizengamot have been debating a
      response, but so far no resolution has been reached."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is to say," a man Harry did not know by name spoke up,
      "For some unfathomable reason we are still debating whether to
      pander to those child-murderers, or show them what it means to put
      yourself against wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are unreasonable, Lord Usto!" Dumbledore spoke loudly. "You
      would punish the many for the actions of the few. In relative
      terms, a mere <em class="calibre8">handful</em> of Muggles have assaulted wizards.
      <em class="calibre8">Most</em> Muggles just want to live their lives in peace. Most,
      I daresay, would not even approve of the actions of those you view
      as their representatives."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So our <em class="calibre8">real</em> ire should be aimed at those Muggles you
      conveniently sent off abroad, is what you're saying," Lord Usto
      bit. "The ones with their hands on the blade, those are the ones
      you gave back to their own kind, where undoubtedly they are now
      feasting and celebrating their victory. If anything, they should
      have been cut open in front of their families as an example! Since
      they are beyond our reach now, I say we pick their family and
      neighbors for punishment."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is no purpose in revenge!" The Chief Warlock exclaimed.
      "Our kind have already taken thrice as many Muggle lives as they
      have taken ours, in the last two days alone!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's nothing, is it?" Another man – Lord Jugson, if
      Harry remembered correctly – piped up. "A wizard is easily worth a
      hundred Muggles!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is pointless," another man on the Malfoy side spoke up.
      "We are not in a position to exact revenge. Beasts though they may
      be, they hold power that I would not have imagined possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They won't be able hurt us if we kill the lot of them first,
      Mr. McWillen."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are sixty million Muggles in Britain alone," Madam Bones
      spoke impatiently. "Even if the idea of killing them all would not
      be morally repugnant, we do not have the resources to achieve
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But as I said before," the toad-woman sitting next to Minister
      Fudge said in a falsely sweet tone, "we can simply subvert their
      government first, and <em class="calibre8">then</em> set an example."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We've gone over this several times," Madam Longbottom spoke
      dismissively. "The Muggle government doesn't have much control over
      their people at the moment, and will have even less control if the
      people see wizards controlling them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we replace them," a woman on Dumbledore's side spoke up.
      "Set up a new government, and enforce law and order. We do not need
      to hurt them, as long as they stay in their place."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are being wantonly naive, Madam," the man called McWillen
      spoke up. "They will resist such a rule if it is not achieved with
      their consent, and their resistance will be bloody. If anything,
      the last days should have demonstrated that they are willing and
      able to cause a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of trouble for us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Toad-woman gave a fake giggle. "Surely you're not suggesting
      <em class="calibre8">Muggles</em> can really hurt a competent witch or wizard when
      they're prepared for it? I mean, a <em class="calibre8">dog</em> can bite an
      unsuspecting wizard, but surely you wouldn't claim that they could
      do anything to an adult – let alone a whole country! – who knows
      what they can do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided that this was a good point to step in. He stood
      up. "You <em class="calibre8">don't</em> know what they can do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have seen a fair few of their attacks, Mister... I mean,
      Lord Potter," one of the men responded. "At close range, they can
      use <em class="calibre8">confringo</em>-like effects and summon smoke, but they have
      very little versatility. I will admit that their large-scale
      weapons are fearsome, but as long as we remain in their own cities,
      near their own citizens, they cannot use them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Flitwick said a similar thing, Monday night," Harry
      said kindly, "This was right before the Muggles surprised us with a
      volley of tear gas. So far they have figured out only a few things
      they could use against us, and those they use over and over, but it
      will not be long before they realize all the other possibilities
      they possess that could hurt us. I would also like to note that
      nobody in this room seems to be wearing bubbleheads, so we are
      clearly not so perfectly prepared even for the things we
      <em class="calibre8">already know</em> they can do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Wizengamot is very well protected!" Toad-woman snapped.
      "Muggles couldn't get down here, the very idea!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly how sure of that are you?" Harry threw back. "They
      clearly know where the Ministry is, and the Wizengamot is connected
      to it. Even if the wards keep out Muggles, would Merlin have
      thought to block robots? They only need to get a hose down here to
      take us out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some people looked uncomfortable, but Amelia Bones shook her
      head. "Even if they were able to penetrate the Ministry, they would
      not manage to do it without detection. My people will give warning
      immediately when something threatening appears."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What's a robot?" Someone else asked. "Do they have
      <em class="calibre8">more</em> dangerous magics?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Technology</em>," Dumbledore corrected.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes they do," Harry answered. "And if they do not, they soon
      will." He looked around, making sure he had everyone's attention.
      "My Lords and Ladies," (that seemed to be the right way to address
      the group) "I hope I do not offend anyone if I point out that there
      is a flaw in your perception. You see Muggles, and think of them as
      witches or wizards without the magic. In this view, they are
      reduced to helpless creatures, as handicapped as a witch or wizard
      would be if they lost their magic. But they have never known magic,
      and this is not the way they see <em class="calibre8">themselves</em>. Muggles grow
      up in a <em class="calibre8">completely</em> different way from us. Where we mostly
      study existing spells, Muggle technology was almost entirely
      developed in the last century. Muggles learn to <em class="calibre8">invent</em>,
      and <em class="calibre8">adapt</em>. There are hundreds of Muggle inventions that
      could be creatively used against us, and it only takes <em class="calibre8">one</em>
      person to think of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I find that hard to believe," Minister Fudge protested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is a fact," Harry said simply. "If any of you have children
      who have watched or participated in the first-year 'armies', ask
      them just how much different such things like a car battery or ball
      bearings can make."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Against first-year magic, maybe," Lord Usto said dismissively.
      "But that's hardly impressive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Bellatrix Black was broken out of Azkaban with the help of
      Muggle technology.</em> Harry thought it, but it wouldn't be safe
      to bring it up. Instead, he shrugged. "I could only use what a
      first-year could transfigure. Muggles, however, are not restrained
      by having to transfigure everything themselves, which means that
      they are allowed to use liquids and gases, and can use <em class="calibre8">far</em>
      more advanced equipment and potentially lethal weapons. Do
      <em class="calibre8">not</em> underestimate them. It will be the last thing you
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is much like I have been saying all along," a man near the
      middle spoke. "If we go to war, we can only lose. Even if – if! –
      we should manage to defeat the Muggles, they will not give up. It
      is nigh impossible to hold an underground resistance in check, and
      even if we can, how many resources will we not have to expend on
      keeping them in line?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"War is bad for business," a woman agreed. "If we can put these
      hostilities behind us, with the Statute of Secrecy ended, we will
      be able to engage in a mutually beneficial trade. I would rather
      monetize the opportunities this creates than spend money and effort
      fighting a foe we can control through market forces."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do they have to offer us?" Another man sneered
      dismissively. "Food, perhaps, and some precious minerals. But if we
      enslave them, we can simply set them to working the land and the
      mines! You're over-thinking how hard it is to keep a bunch of
      Muggles in check. We'll just employ a small number of Legilimenses
      to randomly test them for ill intent towards wizards, and execute
      the rebellious ones!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You will be forever killing if you do so," Dumbledore spoke
      sternly. "For surely the act of executing innocents who have merely
      committed crimes in their <em class="calibre8">thoughts</em> will itself cause more
      rebelliousness."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"At first, perhaps," the first speaker shrugged. "But I cannot
      see this cycle lasting long. There are plenty of people who would
      be cowed by such methods, and we don't really have a use for more
      than a small fraction of the Muggles currently alive in
      Britain."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Arguments flared up again, as the morality and practicality of
      enslaving and possibly killing millions of people was debated with
      vehemence. Harry kept silent. It wouldn't be good politics to
      immediately try to dominate the conversation, and the arguments
      didn't seem to be going anywhere, so he could afford to sit this
      part out. Instead, he quietly considered the best formulation of
      his next point while waiting for an opportune moment to bring it
      up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Before we continue debating what to do <em class="calibre8">after</em> we win
      our hypothetical war," a man whom the others referred to as "Mr.
      Deas" spoke firmly, "we should ask Lord Potter what exactly he
      meant not to underestimate them." He turned to Harry. "What other
      weapons can they employ against us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All kinds of things," Harry answered promptly. "A flashbang –
      that's a kind of explosive that can blind and deafen you at the
      same time – might well break even a competent wizard's
      concentration. Ball bearings will complicate movement, and a wizard
      could be lured into a pit trap – most wizards don't carry around a
      broomstick to get themselves out. We can avoid <em class="calibre8">breathing</em>
      gases with a Bubblehead Charm, but that charm only covers the head,
      and there are noxious gases which hurt the skin. Explosives also
      don't need to be thrown, they can be buried as mines, or you trap a
      building and then blow it up once you get a few wizards inside.
      Also, electricity will put stress on a shield – I actually tested
      that in the first army battle we had this year – and once the
      Muggles figure that one out, they will definitely weaponize it. And
      that's not even going into things like lasers or electromagnetic
      radiation. Some of those things may not be practical with the
      equipment the average Muggle keeps around the house, nor even
      available to the military right now, but I guarantee you that the
      technology will get developed <em class="calibre8">very</em> quickly once Muggles
      figure out that it can be used. In fact, there's probably some
      secret labs already working on them, both here <em class="calibre8">and</em> in
      other countries."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Rattling off all the possibilities felt <em class="calibre8">remarkably</em> like
      his first Defense class this year. In fact... "Oh, and before I
      forget about the defensive side, we already know that metal armor
      will stop low-level spells. I strongly suspect that better
      materials can be developed that will hold out against almost
      everything, and you don't want to start throwing too many
      Unforgivable Curses around. Also, it's not just direct combat you
      should be picturing here – they might well employ things like
      poisons or, if the situation gets desperate enough, perhaps even
      suicide commands. There's more than a thousand Muggles for every
      witch or wizard, after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a shocked silence as he finished, and several people
      looked distinctly green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely," a woman eventually said, "now that we know about these
      things, we can guard against them?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grimaced. "These were just the first ideas that came to my
      mind, Madam. I suspect it is not even half of what a competent
      military commander could come up with. Also, although I claim a
      fair amount of expertise because I have studied the possibilities
      of the Muggle world extensively, I <em class="calibre8">am</em> only eleven. I never
      had access to military science laboratories and my knowledge of
      physics is rudimentary. I cannot even guess at what scientists may
      invent in, say, a year time, especially if they have access to a
      witch or wizard to test with."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But how would they get –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Mudbloods," a man near Lord Malfoy spat. "And blood traitors.
      They might well sell us out."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We can keep an eye on them, surely?" Another asked, voice
      wavering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Unlikely," Amelia Bones said with a frown. "It takes only one
      person willing to cast their faith with the Muggles, either due to
      bribes, conflicting loyalties or simply mistreatment by the magical
      world – I do not personally know any Muggleborn who I believe would
      willingly engineer the destruction of our kind, but I know of many
      who would have every earthly reason to do so. And do not forget
      that it wouldn't need to be a British person. Muggles do possess
      near-instant globe-wide communication methods."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A deep, painful silence followed these words. Harry decided that
      this was a good moment to lead into his point, before the others
      started trying to rationalize their preconceived ideas again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Look," he spoke clearly, standing up. "I think we've been
      trying to answer the wrong question here." (It definitely seemed
      like a good idea to use <em class="calibre8">we</em> instead of <em class="calibre8">you</em>, so he
      wouldn't be seen as setting himself against the more senior
      Wizengamot members.) "We can debate all day whether it is moral to
      attempt to conquer the Muggle world, but we will never agree on
      that point. Let us instead ask whether it is <em class="calibre8">expedient</em>. To
      that, I think we can all agree, the answer is an unequivocal
      <em class="calibre8">no</em>. Even in the unlikely event that we could win a war in
      Britain, it would be at the price of massive bloodshed on both
      sides – would that be worth it? And then the other countries would
      respond. <em class="calibre8">They</em> have nuclear weapons too!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked around the room, catching eyes. "But we do not
      <em class="calibre8">have</em> to go to war. We can negotiate, create a peace treaty
      that satisfies both sides. Ultimately, all we want is to be left
      alone, and I daresay they will be content with the same thing. The
      average Muggle does not want war, they cannot even truly
      contemplate the idea. Don't forget that there hasn't been a Muggle
      war on British soil in <em class="calibre8">centuries.</em>"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would have us negotiate with child murderers?" A woman
      spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do not see that we have much of a choice," Madam Longbottom
      spoke angrily. "Harry Potter is right. We have to think about the
      good of the country, even if that requires distasteful decisions
      like allowing murderers to get away. Are you willing to have us all
      destroyed just so you can have revenge?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Negotiation is challenging, though," Mr. Deas pointed out.
      "Seeing as they will not talk to us."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Jugson snorted. "Nor would it matter if they did, since we
      have already established that the Muggle government are no longer
      in control of their people, nor have any checks on their
      soldiers."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think there is a way around that," Harry said. He wasn't
      <em class="calibre8">entirely</em> sure whether it would work, but there was a
      decent chance, and they should at least <em class="calibre8">try</em>. "Use
      publicity. Give the Muggle government free reign to set the
      location and conditions for the negotiations, allow them to
      transmit everything to national television... If we can then
      arrange a deal that the majority of the people can live with, and
      proceed to follow through with our side of the agreements, it will
      take the heart out of the resistance. There probably will still be
      some people who do not believe it, but the longer we are seen as
      holding to our side of the deal, the more those people will be
      considered mere conspiracy theorists. This <em class="calibre8">does</em> require
      that we do not give them any provocation whatsoever. That is to
      say, we must pass laws against any and all lethal, painful of
      permanently debilitating magic used on Muggles, even in
      self-defense, when other options are available."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy shook his head. "How do you propose to enforce
      such a law? You will never persuade most of our kind to not
      retaliate against Muggle violence, let alone not defending
      themselves!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did not mean to suggest that people should simply allow
      themselves to be hurt, Lord Malfoy," Harry nodded. "But we can set
      standard procedures. A signal, perhaps, that will call a group of
      Aurors to the aid of any magical person who triggers it? Or
      self-defense with stunners, where the offending parties are
      imprisoned afterwards. Muggle prisons are not like Azkaban,
      fortunately, but they are still far from pleasant to be in, and it
      will be in the Muggle government's interest to not offend us overly
      much by letting the people we arrest get away without at least
      bringing them to court for attempted murder. In turn, we should
      also arrest any witches or wizards engaging in violent behavior
      towards Muggles, and openly try them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can't see that happening, lad," a man near Harry spoke. "You
      can make laws whatever you like, but you won't stop the people who
      want to hurt Muggles. They'll just wear a mask, and the DMLE cannot
      be everywhere at once."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid Mr. Fortescue is right," Madam Bones nodded.
      reluctantly. "With emotions running as high as they have been
      lately, it will be quite difficult to prevent further attacks on
      Muggles, or even to detect them in time to make an arrest that will
      appear convincing. Certainly my people will do all that they can,
      but even so, we will have to prepare the Muggles from the start for
      the eventuality that there will be attacks – or overly violent
      defenses – that we cannot stop in time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not to mention," another woman added, "the crazy nutter who
      started all this is still at large. Considering he single-handedly
      brought down the Statute of Secrecy, I'd be amazed if he were to
      refrain from further provocations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why should we care what he does?" The Toad-woman asked. "I'd
      say we'd be doing quite enough already, allowing them to keep
      governing themselves and even passing laws against self-defense!
      They can hardly expect us to solve every little problem for them,
      can they?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should care," Madam Bones said impatiently, "because the
      Muggles will never accept a peace treaty which includes a clause
      that wizards will not randomly kill Muggles if we are not actually
      seen to <em class="calibre8">enforce</em> that clause. We do not approve of the man,
      but they will nevertheless perceive him as representing us. Our
      negotiations would not achieve anything if our partners believe us
      to be insincere." She turned to Harry and added formally: "Since
      you seem to have considered this, do you have a solution in mind,
      Lord Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have some ideas," Harry said calmly. "But I would need to
      know exactly what tools we have. First of all, is it possible to
      detect magic done on or near Muggles?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Only if we specifically put a warning ward on every Muggle in
      the country," Madam Bones said regretfully. "Even doing so,
      nearness to Muggles may not be problematic by itself – many wizards
      live <em class="calibre8">near</em> Muggles, but not in direct sight, and in order
      to detect whether the Muggle would notice the magic, the Muggle
      would need more advanced shielding that needs regular
      reinforcement."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That, or just a way to <em class="calibre8">report</em> magic they notice,
      conditional on magic actually being performed nearby," Harry
      pointed out. "But I can see this being open to abuse, and many
      Muggles will not want to be subject to magical protections, so
      let's put that idea aside for the moment. Second idea: at the start
      of the year, Professor McGonagall told me there are ways to detect
      underage magic. Can you tell me how you do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We put a trace on the areas where Muggleborns live," Madam
      Bones answered with a slight tone of surprise. "We can detect any
      magic occurring there. Magical parents are expected to keep an eye
      on their own children."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does the trace tell you who did the magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, just the nature and location."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry closed his eyes briefly and counted to ten rapidly. There
      were so many flaws in this arrangement that it was hard to imagine,
      but then, these were the same kinds of people who organized
      professional Quidditch leagues.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does 'nature' mean the spell that was used?" He asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The effect, actually," Madam Bones replied. "Normal spells tap
      into a select range of magical effects, which can also be triggered
      by certain magical creatures like House Elves, or using accidental
      magic. It is usually quite possible to determine the spell from the
      effects, especially for powerful spells which carry a unique
      effect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "All right. But I guess the fact that you put the
      trace on the place where Muggleborns live means that there isn't
      any way to put a trace on the children themselves, then?" This
      might make things a little bit harder, although he thought he could
      work around it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, of course we can! But then we'd have to remove it after
      every holiday and reapply it when the children go home, or we'd
      constantly get the alarms."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see. Couldn't you just make it not give an alarm if the
      student is in a place where it's explicitly permitted, like
      Hogwarts or the Hogwarts Express?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She appeared to consider this. "I suppose we could. But why
      should we? The current system works well enough, and also captures
      use of magical items, which a personal trace would not do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Very well. So, there are personal traces and area
      traces, which can both give information about what magic is being
      done. How hard would it be to get around such a trace?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"For a child almost impossible, unless they had a powerful
      wizard to help them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Suppose you were a powerful wizard, inside a traced area. Would
      you be able to take down the trace without it first giving an
      alarm?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She frowned. "Not if it's properly applied, and the core points
      of the field are well inside the area. The wizard would need to use
      magic to do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Professor Dumbledore," Harry turned to the former Headmaster.
      "Could you get around such a trace?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," he said simply.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Do you think you could get around <em class="calibre8">that</em>? Make a trace
      so sophisticated that even Salazar Slytherin, say, couldn't
      circumvent it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard considered the question for a few moments. "Yes,"
      he said eventually.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what," the man referred to as Mr. Crouch said, "would you
      want to do with a trace like that?" His tone was aggressive, with a
      very slight undertone of what might be fear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is quite simple, sir," Harry answered. "It seems that what
      we want to do is twofold: detect and prevent illegal uses of magic,
      and find individuals who operate outside the law. By combining both
      kinds of traces, we can do so. I would propose setting up area
      traces around the country, detecting any and all uses of magic, and
      additionally putting a trace on all witches, wizards and
      spell-casting magical creatures in it. Putting this information
      together, we will be able to differentiate between magic done by a
      law-abiding citizen, or by someone who has escaped our detection,
      and we can give an alarm for lethal spells used in areas labeled as
      'Muggle', regardless of who's doing it. Or for <em class="calibre8">any</em> magic
      done by unregistered entities."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Crouch blanched. "That is a gross violation of privacy!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You speak of privacy, in a country where <em class="calibre8">Legilimency</em>
      is not against the law? Seriously? Using these traces, we could
      detect uses of Legilimency <em class="calibre8">and</em> avoid the risk of our
      government getting compromised by the Imperius Curse. What is more,
      they will enable us to determine aggressive magic in primarily
      Muggle areas, and allow us to instantly interfere."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Mr. Crouch spluttered. Professor Dumbledore, too, frowned.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not sure that is wise, Harry – Lord Potter, I mean. If we
      set up such a system, will we ever be able to get rid of it? What
      if some dark lord, or even just a less capable government, comes
      into power? By knowing everything each of its members does at all
      times, such a rulership could never be rebelled against. Even
      abiding by the law, I would not be very comfortable living in a
      country where the government knew <em class="calibre8">everything</em> I did, while
      I could not know for certain whether I could always trust the
      government."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the men in Malfoy's camp smirked at him. "Didn't you
      speak in favor of emancipating the boy just an hour ago? Don't like
      it very much now that he's actually making his own contributions
      rather than yours, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am merely pointing out a danger – a grave danger! – in the
      course of action he proposes. Lord Potter, I fear this is not wise
      at all, not in the long term!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry smirked. <em class="calibre8">Point for Professor Dumbledore disassociating
      me from himself.</em> "You bring up a valid point, I suppose. The
      main goal is to have the system in place for the few weeks it will
      take to calm down emotions and restore a piece of order, but I can
      see that the system, once it exists, might well remain in place
      permanently because it is <em class="calibre8">really convenient</em> to the
      government and law enforcement agencies in particular." He looked
      at Amelia Bones, who nodded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree to the need for care," Harry continued. "Not just for
      fear of a dark lord compromising the system in the future. Everyone
      is guilty of minor offenses; complete knowledge of everyone's
      actions would allow the people in charge of the system to
      selectively enforce laws, thereby essentially giving them the power
      to punish everyone they do not like for <em class="calibre8">whatever</em> reason.
      In particular, this would likely affect journalists and leaders of
      political opposition groups in the future. So yes, we must avoid
      that. Fortunately, we have magic at our disposal. Perhaps we can
      build some security straight into the system?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What did you have in mind?" Madam Bones asked, in a
      business-like tone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, is it possible to give an alarm only for specific kinds
      of spells – or spell effects, as you said – under specific
      circumstances, and make the spells and circumstances vary depending
      on the area?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Should be," Madam Bones nodded with a frown.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perfect. Then, for a start, it is not wise to have a vast
      information asymmetry between the government and the governed. Make
      it so that <em class="calibre8">if</em> the trace gives an alarm, the person – or
      creature – who set off that alarm is instantly notified of this.
      Can we do that?" Madam Bones nodded. Harry went on: "Don't
      <em class="calibre8">store</em> things: if you are not immediately told that the
      trace gave an alarm, then it cannot be queried afterwards what
      spell was done or who did it. And also make it so that the things
      which give an alarm are easy for anyone to check, and that any
      change in these things can be queried for at least a month
      afterwards. That way, the government will still be able to snoop
      without the consent of the people, but not without their knowledge
      – and any government turned evil could already do the former by
      forcing people to take a personal trace."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what kinds of things would give an alarm?" Mr. Crouch
      bit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We should be able to set that, and any setting should be
      available for public query. Say, for a given area, we can either
      specify a number of spells or kinds of magics which are
      `forbidden', or simply say everything is forbidden except for a
      certain group of spells. If a `forbidden' spell is cast, it gives
      an alarm naming the spell effect, the entity who did it and, if at
      all possible, who or what it was targeted at. We should also be
      able to add extra alarms for unregistered entities and allow
      specific people – like Aurors – to do forbidden spells in certain
      areas without giving alarm."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So we could forbid any magic from being cast in Muggle towns,"
      Madam Bones concluded. "And if that law is broken, we would be able
      to send Aurors there to deal with the disturbance without drowning
      in alarms." <em class="calibre8">Yes</em>, Harry thought, <em class="calibre8">she</em> does
      <em class="calibre8">look</em> <em class="calibre8">eager.</em> Not surprising, of course, for the
      head of Magical Law Enforcement to appreciate new tools to do her
      work more effectively.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And stop the Unforgivable Curses from being used anywhere!"
      Madam Longbottom announced viciously. "About time for that too! I
      fully support this idea. I would be in favor even without any
      Muggle crisis!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well I, for one, am not!" Mr. Crouch shouted angrily. "Are you
      all out of your senses? Will you submit to having your private
      concerns laid open to the world? Will you force our people to not
      cast any spell without a first-year child knowing about it? Forget
      it. I shall not accept this proposal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">He has something to hide,</em> Harry thought, and he clearly
      wasn't the only one. People were casting suspicious looks at him.
      It was Amelia Bones who spoke up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't see why you're so upset, Barty – indeed, I would have
      expected you to welcome an idea like this with open arms! The
      proposal seems very reasonable, and would not violate anyone's
      rights – in fact, I would consider it on the conservative side. If
      we have such a system set up, with some extensions –
      <em class="calibre8">storing</em> information, as young Lord Potter calls it – we
      might be able to use it in trials for Occlumenses."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it would be difficult to set it up securely if we allow
      storing," Harry objected. "I'm sure it <em class="calibre8">can</em> be done, but it
      would require a lot more time to think about than we have now."
      <em class="calibre8">And ideally we would want to have a computer scientist security
      expert poking at it for a month or so.</em> "But if you consider
      the idea sound, and the Ministry and Wizengamot agree, then I think
      there is no reason why you could not set up an improved trace
      afterwards. And as for those who do not agree –", he turned to the
      seething Mr. Crouch, "– I would not wish to force anyone to accept
      such a trace against their will. No one should be stopped from
      leaving the country if they do not want to accept the personal
      trace, or for whatever other reason. In fact, I think the trace
      should not give alarm for any magic performed outside of our
      territory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What if they get it removed while they're abroad?" one of the
      women asked logically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let them," Harry suggested. "The main reason for a personal
      trace is to <em class="calibre8">not</em> give alarm for innocent magic cast by
      civilians. Remember that the main part of the project is area
      traces, so we can detect any undesirable magic whatsoever – if we
      combine that information with the identity of the caster it would
      make certain things <em class="calibre8">not</em> undesirable. For example, if the
      average John Smith casts a cutting hex in his garden, you don't
      want to hear an alarm about that. If Bellatrix Black casts a
      cutting hex, you <em class="calibre8">do</em> want to know about it. Since I suspect
      Bellatrix will not be available for tracing, we would have to set a
      high alarm for spells by unregistered entities. I know that's
      probably rather inconvenient for tourists, but newborn Muggleborn
      witches and wizards, at least, already get a trace on their houses,
      right?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No, actually," Madam Bones replied. "Only when they start
      Hogwarts. But that is inconsequential. International visitors are
      already required to use registered portkeys or Apparition spots, or
      otherwise at least announce their arrival to us. The only large
      thing that will need changing is that we will have to keep an eye
      on House Elf births."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But can this really be done?" A woman asked. "It sounds
      incredibly sophisticated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Chief Warlock?" Lord Nott challenged. "I daresay you
      would be the one most qualified to perform such magics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Not on my own, certainly," the grayed wizard shook his head.
      "But I think I could devise spells like Lord Potter describes,
      especially if the Ministry would lend me the aid of some skilled
      Charms Masters and Arithmancers. Some experts in the Ancient Runes
      would also not be amiss."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That should not be an issue," Cornelius Fudge nodded. The man
      looked positively excited, which was probably not a good sign.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would like to suggest that all spells are checked by
      independent parties," Lord Malfoy spoke up. "To be very clear that
      they do <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> what is described, and that we can all
      agree to those effects."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course, Lord Malfoy," Dumbledore nodded. "I had no desire to
      cheat the assembly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So are we decided on starting negotiations, then?" Madam
      Longbottom queried.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still don't like it one bit," Lord Usto spat. "But I can see
      I'm going to be overruled, aren't I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Little though I like the idea of pandering to Muggles," Lucius
      Malfoy spoke slowly, "I will support this proposal. It seems that
      we have little choice, if we are to survive. Our country is not yet
      ready to fight a war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Yet</em>, Harry registered. But the implication seemed to
      resonate with many people. There were nods around the benches.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"All right then!" Minister Fudge exclaimed. "So what shall we
      say is the timescale on this? Can we stop this disaster and then
      get the Muggles under control before Friday?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think if I can assemble a good team and work through the
      night, the spells should be ready by morning," Professor Dumbledore
      supplied. "Any experts Lord Malfoy wishes to appoint for approving
      the spells can then have a go over them. Amelia, do you think your
      Aurors can apply the trace on everyone in the country in the matter
      of a day?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I believe so," Madam Bones nodded. "If I can set all my Aurors
      to it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's assuming quite a lot," another woman pointed out.
      "Unless you mind not responding to violence aimed at innocent
      witches and wizards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Waiting another day might also be too long," Harry said,
      frowning. "Today was pretty intense – it won't take long before the
      Muggle military decides to take a big step again, and we don't know
      what they're planning, aside from the obvious indication that
      they're clearing the areas around our important buildings. It's
      probably a good idea to have the full tracing system developed and
      approved by independent parties before we start applying it, but
      how about <em class="calibre8">first</em> placing the area traces, and leaving the
      individual ones until later? The way the system should be designed,
      that'll just act like everyone is an unknown entity who should be
      treated with mistrust, but that only means that we have to ask
      everyone to refrain from casting spells for a short time. We could
      exempt St. Mungo's from the trace, allow Apparating and basic
      Healing Charms everywhere, and start adding the individual trace on
      reliable Aurors to allow them to cast non-lethal spells, although
      if possible we want to run them through Thieves' Downfall first.
      How long would it take to set <em class="calibre8">that</em> up?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Bones closed her eyes, thinking. "Probably a few hours.
      Three or four, maybe?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which means that we should be ready at noon tomorrow," the
      Chief Warlock concluded. "Then we can contact the Prime Minister by
      Patronus and propose negotiations, showing our goodwill by
      promising them that no further attacks on Muggles by witches and
      wizards will be tolerated – and enforcing this from then on."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We must also contact all of our kind before then," Madam
      Longbottom supplied. "Perhaps overnight owls with instructions not
      to cast magic?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And instructions for a warning signal," Madam Bones added.
      "With traces all over the country, this is a lot simpler than it
      otherwise would be. We can simply detect any time someone casts
      sparks and send Aurors there to help."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which will allow us to decisively deal with any Muggle
      offensive as well!" McWillen exclaimed eagerly. "If we can
      demonstrate that we can exercise that kind of control, it should
      make them interested in a quick resolution too!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were sounds of agreement. Mr. Crouch still looked sour,
      but he didn't protest any further.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Wonderful!" Professor Dumbledore exclaimed. "It seems like we
      finally have a solution that will bring an end to this madness. Now
      we merely need to appoint a negotiator. I hope I do not offend, but
      perhaps it would not be optimal to send our esteemed Minister
      again, seeing as the Muggles have a grievance with him."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hah!" Lord Jugson cried. "You expect to persuade us to send
      <em class="calibre8">you</em>, don't you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Chief Warlock smiled genially. "I would naturally be
      prepared to represent the Wizengamot in this matter. Although I
      suspect that there are some in this assembly who may not be
      entirely comfortable appointing me, it is fundamental to send a
      representative who will not unduly offend the Muggles. As you well
      know, I have a lot of experience interacting with Muggle
      leaders."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Clever move,</em> Harry thought silently. <em class="calibre8">Malfoy's
      followers are more likely to accept</em> me <em class="calibre8">if the alternative
      is</em> you.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Such negotiations may well be dangerous, however," Deas pointed
      out. "I would certainly not like to volunteer myself. If we indeed
      allow the Muggles to set all the conditions of the meeting, the
      negotiator may not leave the place alive."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But it would be a great honor," a woman spoke out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry glanced at Amelia Bones. This would be the perfect time
      for her to –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lord Malfoy stood up. "I nominate Lord Potter."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry blinked. <em class="calibre8">What</em>?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And that was when he realized that the Malfoy Lord had been
      remarkably silent and non-confrontational all through the meeting;
      that he had only commented on feasibility and avoided Dumbledore
      from getting unchecked control over the country's wards, and that
      Dumbledore had even <em class="calibre8">said</em> that the man had been
      surprisingly silent in the last two days.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Was Lucius acting under Voldemort's orders? Or did he simply see
      a way to take power from the hated Dumbledore and pass it to a new
      entity?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If the Wizengamot chooses to send me, I am willing to go."
      Harry said formally.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Hem hem,</em>" Toad-woman intoned. "I'm sorry if I
      misunderstand, but Lord Malfoy, <em class="calibre8">surely</em> you would not
      suggest sending a first-year child as our representative? The idea
      is absurd!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree!" Lord Usto shouted. "It's bad enough that we
      <em class="calibre8">listen</em> to this child, but to have him negotiate on behalf
      of the entire Wizengamot is absolutely ridiculous."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The young Lord of Potter is obviously an expert on Muggle
      matters," Lord Malfoy said patiently. "Despite not being a
      Muggleborn or blood traitor himself. This makes him perfectly
      suited to handle the negotiations on our behalf. His youth is only
      to our advantage: as a child, he will more easily be forgiven for
      any offense he may inadvertently give. Yet if he is seen to be
      backed by adults, they will have no choice but to take his offers
      seriously."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And if they do bring it up," Madam Longbottom said bitterly,
      "he can just remind them that they did not much seem to care much
      about age when they murdered our children." The anger dripped off
      her voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I agree to the nomination," Amelia Bones said decisively. "We
      have already voted to put his youth aside, and Lord Malfoy has a
      point that it could work to our advantage in this regard."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I too support young Lord Potter," Albus Dumbledore said. "He is
      our greatest hope in this crisis, and I know his heart to be
      pure."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a stunned silence as the two powerful enemies aligned
      themselves.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have one request, though," Harry asked in the silence. This
      would be difficult to get away with, but he couldn't afford to be
      denied on this point. "If I represent our kind in these
      negotiations, will I have the authority to enter into an agreement
      on behalf of the government of Magical Britain, and will that
      agreement be respected afterwards? If I make promises or threats,
      can I be assured that these will be followed up on?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If the agreements reached are reasonable, I am sure we can all
      agree –" McWillen began, but Harry shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have seen how this body functions," he said firmly. "If I
      come back here with a treaty, it is certain that every minute
      detail will be argued about and debated beyond measure, and it is
      unlikely that we shall have consensus on any point – indeed, I
      cannot imagine any deal that would meet with the approval of
      <em class="calibre8">all</em> of the Wizengamot, simply because there is little that
      we all agree on. There will necessarily have to be compromises, and
      I have to be free to make those. What is more, recall that the
      negotiations will have to take place under conditions set by the
      Muggles, under full witness by the entire country. If I am hesitant
      and cannot make any promises, we will not get anywhere. If I speak
      decisively, I expect we <em class="calibre8">can</em> come to an agreement for a
      full package of laws that mediate the interactions between our
      kinds, but they will not take me – and by extension, us – seriously
      if I then come back the next day and request to have three points
      changed. This is why I ask that you give me the full authority to
      set a binding deal on behalf of the Ministry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now hold there a moment," the Minister of Magic protested.
      "Surely we should still have a say in the outcome? You cannot
      expect us to put ourselves by the sidelines!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Madam Bones frowned. "I do not like this idea much, but Lord
      Potter does have a point about the infeasibility of negotiations
      without this assurance."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Perhaps there is a compromise," Lord Malfoy spoke. "Our
      representative does not need to go alone. Indeed, he will be taken
      more seriously when accompanied by adults."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems reasonable, but we cannot be seen arguing in front
      of the Muggles," Harry said with a frown. "Nor have the
      negotiations stall if we disagree on a point."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is a spell to speak silently," the Chief Warlock
      supplied. "What if the final responsibility to speak is yours, but
      you will have experienced advisers who come with you and are able
      to supply both opinions and information without interfering with
      the proceedings?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That could work," Harry said, thinking quickly. "As long as the
      advisers do not <em class="calibre8">directly</em> interfere." <em class="calibre8">Which will still
      be a problem if I can't</em> guarantee <em class="calibre8">that they'll stay
      quiet... Unbreakable Vows, perhaps?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"May I ask what is it you're planning to tell the Muggles?"
      Madam Bones asked reasonably.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It depends on what they have to say. Ultimately, I want us to
      live side by side with the Muggles in peace. Peace, and guarantees
      that they will never use their destructive power on us again. I do
      believe they want the same – they just don't trust us, as we don't
      trust them. I will make whatever promises are in the Ministry's
      power – positive and negative – to achieve that goal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shall we vote on the matter?" Cornelius Fudge asked. "All those
      in favor of giving Lord Potter the Ministry's full authority in the
      coming negotiations?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were hands – most notably Dumbledore, Bones and Malfoy –
      but several people still looked hesitant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Under protest," one of the other men said, raising his hand
      only slightly. "As there are no alternatives on the table anyone
      can agree on. But I do not like it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Count me out," Crouch grumbled. "With this child in charge, I'm
      leaving the country."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh very well," one of the women said, raising her hand. "I
      can't see that we have much to lose. If someone has to negotiate,
      it might as well be Lord Potter as someone else, and if Albus
      thinks he has the best of intentions, I will accept that. So long
      as the Ministry promises protections on the ancestral houses of
      those who flee the country for a few years if this turns out
      wrong."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">They just don't want to stay behind when the majority elects
      a strong leader,</em> Slytherin snickered, as more people and more
      people, including Cornelius Fudge, raised their hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">They're right to hesitate,</em> Hufflepuff pointed out.
      <em class="calibre8">They've just given the authority to make any laws regarding
      Magical Britain which Muggles can agree to, to a child they know
      next to nothing about.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was sad, in a way, to see the government of Magical Britain
      trade away its power and freedom for a vague promise of protection.
      But he'd been planning to overthrow the government all along, and
      this <em class="calibre8">was</em> clearly the most peaceful way to achieve it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It seems we have a majority," Cornelius Fudge concluded. "Lord
      Potter, the assembly agrees to give you full power of negotiation
      and access to the Ministry's resources for the duration of the
      crisis."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I would like to know, however," Lord Malfoy spoke up, "who will
      accompany Lord Potter in his negotiations."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those I can trust," Harry answered. "It is absolutely essential
      that they can agree to refrain from interfering and stick to it. I
      have to be able to make snap decisions and propose things whose
      ulterior goal is not immediately clear – hesitating to discuss it
      silently and get agreement on such points first would be wildly
      counterproductive, especially if the people who accompany me are
      from different sides of the political spectrum and unlikely to
      agree to everything. If one of my advisers suddenly decided that
      the agreements are not to his or her tastes and objected out loud,
      it would severely undermine the efforts and likely launch us all
      into a war."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are ways to guarantee trust," a man sitting next to the
      Minister, who had been one of the first to vote in Harry's favor,
      brought up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry raised his eyebrows. "I was under the impression that the
      Unbreakable Vow is not to be taken lightly, as it requires a
      magical sacrifice."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It does, but under the circumstances that may well be
      acceptable. What is more, a House Vow does not require a permanent
      sacrifice, and you <em class="calibre8">are</em> the Lord of your House."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This sounded like the idea Padma had brought up to him before,
      but what she had told him didn't seem like something the Nobles
      would easily agree to doing. "What exactly does that entail?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is a spell developed in the late Middle Ages. Those who
      swear service to a Noble House are at the command of its Lord or
      Lady. They can be killed in an instant if the Lord so chooses,
      either by his direct decision or by violating a prearranged
      condition. The contract of service remains in place until their
      death, or until the Lord of the House releases them. If those who
      accompany you are sworn to you, you will be certain that they do
      not speak out of turn, as it would have them killed on the spot,
      and then you can simply release them afterwards. Indeed, as you
      have only just gained control of your Noble House, it is actually
      customary to allow willing witches and wizards to swear to
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">So it was the spell Padma had mentioned. Somewhat similar to the
      Unbreakable Vow, but limited to obedience to a given person, and
      possible to break if you were willing to take the risk; a spell
      that placed your fate completely into someone else's hands. He
      would have expected this kind of thing to have gone out of style
      centuries ago, but apparently it hadn't.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">So magical Britain condones slavery of people as well as
      House Elves. Big surprise there, is it?</em> "Would anyone
      <em class="calibre8">do</em> that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can guarantee it, sir," the man replied with a slight
      smile.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Very well. If anyone should wish to swear service to me, then I
      will be open to that. But let's make it clear that I do not expect
      <em class="calibre8">anyone</em> to do it. If no one swears, I will not mind being
      accompanied by people whom I believe to be trustworthy even without
      vows, or simply with Unbreakable Vows if a willing binder can be
      found."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were nods around the hall, and sudden thoughtful looks on
      many faces.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The meeting was disbanded shortly afterwards. Harry watched the
      Lords and Ladies filter out, savoring the bittersweet feeling.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was king.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At eleven, he held the power of a country, and he might be able
      to set in motion some of his most ambitious plans for the world. He
      would never just be a child prodigy who flashed and faded anymore –
      whatever happened, he would go down in history, whether as hero or
      villain to be determined later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And he had done exactly what the man who had – directly or
      indirectly – murdered three of his parents had wanted him to
      do.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">-o-o-o-o-o-</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><strong class="calibre7">Author's Note:</strong> if you are thinking that no
      government, sane or insane, would ever allow negotiators to make
      agreements on its behalf without checks, I would originally have
      agreed with you... and then I heard about "fast-track" for trade
      agreements actually getting passed. Hum.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
