<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 109: Negotiations, Pt 1, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s29" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 109: Negotiations, Pt 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Friday, May 1st 1992, 10:58am.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh man," Draco said, and then added mentally. <span><em class="calibre8">You are
      going to look like</em> such <em class="calibre8">an idiot,
      Potter.</em><br class="calibre4"/></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">I'm sure Harry will do just fine,</em></span> Hermione
      thought primly. "But we probably shouldn't distract him too much
      while he's trying to hold a conversation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">I can deal with distraction,</em></span> Harry
      grumbled. <span><em class="calibre8">Just don't expect me to actually respond</em>
      <em class="calibre8">to what you're saying in my head.</em><br class="calibre4"/></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Ministry had arranged communication pins for all members of
      the negotiation committee. The pins were magical items which
      allowed mental communication by "thinking loudly". In a sense, it
      worked much like normal talking: only people who were close enough
      could hear thoughts you were sending out, and you could moderate
      your own loudness. The great advantage was, of course, that
      outsiders couldn't overhear or interfere in the conversation,
      unless they had a similar pin set to the same frequency, or used
      some rather sophisticated interception spells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The three of them had been experimenting with the pins for
      almost two hours. At first the adults had participated, but they
      were more familiar with the technique and had left to other duties.
      The children had carried on, learning how to moderate loudness,
      recognize mental from verbal speech and ignoring – or even
      half-listening to – mental conversations in the background while
      concentrating on a spoken conversation with someone else.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I've got to go," Hermione said reluctantly. "Lord Malfoy wants
      to 'clean me up', which for some reason is supposed to take
      <em class="calibre8">three hours</em>. Do you have any idea what he has in mind,
      Draco?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Probably something to make you look a bit less like a beaver,"
      Draco shrugged. <span><em class="calibre8">No offense meant.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She humphed. Harry shot Draco a poisonous look. "He just wants
      to make sure you look your best when representing our world – you
      know people tend to judge by looks. Draco and I are also getting a
      'cleanup' later on. He has absolutely promised me not to do
      anything painful to you, nor anything that would be hard to
      reverse, and don't forget that I have the power to rip the magic
      out of him and turn him into a Muggle for the rest of his life if
      he turns out to be insincere. Besides, if you're still
      uncomfortable with him, I'm sure one of the Aurors won't mind
      watching over you. They must be getting pretty bored guarding my
      office all the time."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She grimaced, then took Xare's claw and disappeared. Harry
      suddenly realized that Draco had stiffened. <em class="calibre8">Oops.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">I'm sorry to talk so lightly about</em></span>
      <span><em class="calibre8">that</em></span>, he sent. <span><em class="calibre8">I was only saying it
      because I</em> could<em class="calibre8">, and Lucius knows that, so he will not
      take the risk. That's the whole point of the House Vow, that you
      never actually</em> need <em class="calibre8">to use the power it gives</em><em class="calibre8">.
      You know I wouldn't hurt your father unless I absolutely had
      to.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco nodded. <span><em class="calibre8">The idea takes some getting used</em>
      <em class="calibre8">to</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">. You do realize that taking his magic would be just as bad
      as killing him, right?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">I</em> <em class="calibre8">can imagine he would feel that way,
      yes,</em></span> Harry answered. <span><em class="calibre8">But you shouldn't be so
      worried. It's only for a little while – I have officially given my
      word to cancel all three servitude contracts after the negotiations
      are over. What is more, I suspect that someone will propose me
      taking an Unbreakable Vow to release the corresponding bonds when I
      end the contracts. All in the interest of the continued
      independence of the Wizengamot, of course.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And I'm sure that the money to pay for the binder will in no
      way be traceable back to your father,</em> Harry thought quietly to
      himself as Draco's eyes widened in sudden understanding. <em class="calibre8">He may
      not do that if I come out on top, but he certainly will if there is
      any doubt of my dominance after the negotiations. Although now that
      I've pointed out to your son that I understand what you're doing,
      Lucius, you may not wish to take that risk.</em> Not that he had
      any intention of preserving the bond once it was illegal to do so.
      But Lucius didn't need to know that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He removed the pin from his hair. "We might as well stop, too.
      The magic on these things doesn't last very long, and the
      negotiations may take several days. For what I understand, they're
      rather expensive to replace."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco quietly followed suit. There were some moments of silence
      between them, and then the boy spoke up again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry, are you sure you know what you're doing?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No.</em> "I'm doing the best I can. I don't know how it's
      going to work out, but it's got to be better than <em class="calibre8">not
      trying</em>." He looked at Draco's worried face for a moment. "Are
      <em class="calibre8">you</em> comfortable with this? I know your father wanted you
      to come along, but I didn't think to ask for your opinion."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He did ask me first," Draco said guardedly. Harry waited, and
      eventually Draco continued: "I'm just worried. What if this all
      goes wrong?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sure the blame will fall entirely on me, and nobody would
      even <em class="calibre8">think</em> of blaming you and your father," Harry
      shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not what I'm –" Draco balled his fists in frustration.
      "This is all happening so fast! I knew <em class="calibre8">theoretically</em> what
      Muggles were capable of, but I never expected a <em class="calibre8">war</em>, not
      so soon! I do want to come along, I might even be able to help, but
      it's really hard to be excited about anything when two days ago I
      woke up with broken ribs, lying between two dead third-years. If we
      screw this up – if <em class="calibre8">you</em> screw this up – are we all going to
      die?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Ah.</em> "I don't know. Probably not <em class="calibre8">all</em>, but it
      won't be pretty." Harry sighed. "You're right, this is big. But
      going for peace talks is the most sensible thing we can do right
      now, and I think both parties would really prefer peace over
      continuing the fighting. The Muggles want to be left alone just as
      much as we do – the only difficulty is to contain those of
      <em class="calibre8">both</em> our peoples who aren't content with that, and to
      create guarantees for the future. We'll just do the best we
      can."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what if we fail?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Get out of the country," Harry shrugged.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And wait for the foreign Muggles to come for us?" Draco
      grumbled bitterly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If they do, there will be other opportunities to stop it,"
      Harry reassured him. "It's a big world, Draco. This is our best
      chance to nip the whole thing in the bud before it gets any worse,
      but if we fail, it won't be the end of all hope." <em class="calibre8">Besides,
      Quirrell would never let it come to a destruction of the entire
      wizarding world. I think. Although I'm not as sure about the safety
      of Muggles.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I guess," Draco said dejectedly. Then he seemed to force
      himself to push off his dark mood. "Well, let's see what my father
      has in mind for our 'cleanup', shall we?"</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Friday, May 1st 1992, 13:56.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The six of them were gathered in full ornate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius Malfoy had insisted that they should maintain
      appearances. By looking imposing, the enemy would naturally assign
      them superiority in their minds. And so he had dressed them up with
      the best Madam Maulkin and some of his <em class="calibre8">connections</em> could
      do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry was robed in white silk, with golden bands running down
      from the top of his robes to the bottom and a heavy blue velvet
      cloak with intricate silver draped around his shoulders. In his
      hand, he held a silver staff, artificially lightened. The staff
      wasn't actually functional, like the old druid staves had been, but
      it looked far more impressive than a wand ever could. Lord Malfoy's
      assistants had <em class="calibre8">tried</em> to tame his hair, but it had returned
      to its natural state the instant he looked in a mirror, so they had
      declared that part a hopeless case. After long consideration, Lord
      Malfoy had decided to leave the scar on his forehead alone, since
      it helped him look more mysterious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The others could not look <em class="calibre8">quite</em> that fine, of course,
      but were still made to look impressive, with green dress robes and
      silver belts underneath a light yellow cloak. Hermione had been
      forced to sit down and have liberal amounts of Sleekeazy's Hair
      Potion applied to her hair – which in her case <em class="calibre8">did</em> work –
      and Lord Malfoy had even insisted on shrinking her teeth. The
      effect was stunning, but Harry thought it wasn't really
      <em class="calibre8">Hermione</em> anymore. She herself didn't look very happy with
      the arrangement either, although her discomfort might also be
      related to nerves for what they were about to do. Even Draco, who
      had been trained for this sort of thing all his life, couldn't
      completely hide his worries.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Each of them had their wand in a pocket of their robes, with
      enchantments to jump into their owner's hands at a mental command.
      The adults had applied the most powerful shielding charms they
      could to the children, and Albus Dumbledore had cast a powerful
      ward on the group as a whole, which would hopefully be able to keep
      them protected from most forces as long as they stayed close enough
      together. All wore their communication pins hidden in their hair
      and a small silver knob on their forehead which was instilled with
      Scrying Charms, to allow the Auror Office to see everything they
      saw. Beneath their robes, both Harry and Albus Dumbledore wore
      their Time-Turners, both having saved all their uses. Every member
      of the team had an emergency portkey to transport six people to the
      Ministry. And both Albus Dumbledore and Hermione Granger had their
      phoenix on their shoulder. Muggles would not know the meaning of
      the fire-birds, but they might still be impressed by their beauty.
      Or, for that matter, by the cries of the phoenixes, should they
      suggest something inappropriate.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Harry himself would, of course, be entirely reasonable. Or
      otherwise give Dumbledore the previously agreed upon signal to
      silently put both birds under a restraining charm when
      necessary.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Everyone ready?" Harry asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Each adult grabbed the child in front of him by the shoulder.
      Thicknesse took hold of Dumbledore's left arm; Malfoy took
      Thicknesse's.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Go," Harry said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They <em class="calibre8">burned up</em> and reappeared at the entrance of
      Windsor Castle, quickly letting go of each other. They stood on a
      red carpet leading in, with soldiers on either side guarding their
      entrance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Lucius snorted contemptuously. <span><em class="calibre8">I wonder whether they
      expect to need these guards?</em></span> His mental voice spoke.
      <span><em class="calibre8">It would be trivial to put them all under</em>
      Imperius<em class="calibre8">.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Don't you dare,</em></span> Harry hissed back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>I wasn't suggesting we do, Lord Potter</span>,</em>
      Lucius sent, his face wearing a sleek smile. <span><em class="calibre8">Merely that
      we could.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Heads held high, not looking around at the curious Muggles who
      had come to watch, they walked in.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"Welcome."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old, richly clad woman bowed her head in greeting. Hermione
      had drawn in her breath when entered the room, and confirmed
      Harry's immediate suspicion by sending <span><em class="calibre8">that's the
      Queen!</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How do you do?" Harry said politely, and made as proper a bow
      as he knew how to.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Are you sure?</em></span> Thicknesse asked urgently,
      as the others followed in a deep bow, not showing any sign of their
      mental communication. <span><em class="calibre8">That sounds like an awful risk
      they're taking.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Not really,</em></span> Harry thought back.
      <span><em class="calibre8">The Queen is pretty dispensable. Her function is mostly
      ceremonial, and she has a grown son and even two
      grandchildren.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you Lord Harry Potter?" The Queen asked. If she was
      surprised, she hid it well, but the eight suited men and women in
      the room did not have her demeanor. Some were outright staring,
      others wore sneers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am, Your Majesty."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief pause, in which Dumbledore quietly mentioned
      that there were fifteen hidden cameras as well as the three visible
      ones, and that the Queen and all representatives had tiny wireless
      communication devices in their ears.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please forgive my companions' surprise. I must confess that we
      had expected someone older to be sent as the speaker for the
      magical world. Are you a prince, of some kind?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm afraid I can only speak for the witches and wizards in this
      country, Your Majesty," Harry replied. "Not the entire world. And I
      am not a prince, although I <em class="calibre8">am</em> the Lord of a Noble House –
      I suppose you might say a duke."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Closer to a baron,</em> <em class="calibre8">actually,</em></span>
      Malfoy warned him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I mean a baron," Harry corrected himself. "As for my age –" he
      shrugged. "Our culture is very different from yours. I am
      considered an adult in our world, not through age, but through...
      achievement, I suppose you might say." <span><em class="calibre8">Let them consider
      the meaning of that one.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Introduce</em> us,</span> Malfoy's voice hissed in his
      mind. At least one of his party knew etiquette.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I may introduce," he said as though it were his own idea,
      "my friends, Hermione Granger and Draco Malfoy." He nodded his head
      in their directions as he named them. "And three representatives of
      our governing agencies: Lord Malfoy, Mr. Thicknesse and Mr.
      Dumbledore."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Queen nodded solemnly, and started introducing the men and
      women around her. They were ambassadors of some kind; probably not
      <em class="calibre8">too</em> important, but reliable people to represent the
      government.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">I'm worried about the implications of their sending
      the Queen,</em></span> Harry took the time to say (Hermione would
      remember all the names, of course, so he didn't need to pay
      attention). <span><em class="calibre8">There was no reason to send anyone, they
      could have just implemented a video conference. But the Queen is a
      well-loved public figure. If she gets hurt, or even if we are just
      inappropriately rude to her, it will upset the people immensely.
      And that will help the government to justify draconian measures to
      their</em></span> <span><em class="calibre8">constituen</em><em class="calibre8">ts.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">We must not be rude, then,</em></span> Dumbledore
      suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">No.</em></span> Thicknesse sounded worried.
      <span><em class="calibre8">This is a bad sign. They must have an informant who is
      intimately familiar with our ancient laws. Merlin himself placed
      the King of England as the ruler over both wizardry and Muggles.
      Those laws have never been repealed. I would have to look up
      whether it says 'king' or 'monarch', and how binding those laws
      are, but when she commands, we may have to obey.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">They would not need an informant,</em></span>
      Dumbledore suggested. <span><em class="calibre8">The knowledge may simply have been
      passed on in the Queen's family.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8"><span>This is a pointless discussion,</span></em> Malfoy
      bit. <span><em class="calibre8">If those laws still exist, they are technicalities
      which have been overlooked for centuries. We can ignore
      them.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">She can grant and revoke nobility,</em></span>
      Thicknesse contradicted him. <span><em class="calibre8">As you well know, given that
      your own family was ennobled by her ancestor. Think about that, and
      how many of our ancient rituals and customs are tied to family
      titles. What is more, we cannot be sure that some of our structures
      will not open to her. If she formally disbands the Wizengamot – if
      she knows how to do that – will the Hall still open to us? Tread
      very carefully, Lord Potter.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had no time to answer, as the Queen had finished
      introducing the delegates, explained the function of the cameras
      which were live-broadcasting the meeting, and signified to everyone
      that they might sit. They took place on the lush chairs placed on
      their side of the room.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You asked us for this meeting," the Queen spoke. "Can I assume
      that you have an opening prepared?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I do, in fact," Harry nodded. This part he had discussed with
      the others at length. "To begin with, I would like to express my
      heartfelt apologies for the offense given by our Minister,
      Cornelius Fudge, when he spoke to you last week."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The others had unanimously agreed that it would be imprudent to
      refer to the Minister of Magic as a bumbling idiot, accurate though
      the description would certainly be. Having watched the recording in
      a Pensieve, however, Harry thought that there was something deeper
      to the Minister's behavior towards the Muggle parliament than sheer
      stupidity. Fudge believed, as a matter of course, that wizards were
      superior to Muggles, and that they themselves ought to agree with
      that idea. The Muggles, of course, did not think like that, and
      responded accordingly. There, the friction was born.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To start, do you mind if I refer to non-magical people as
      Muggles?" He asked. "It is the word we usually employ. It is not
      meant to be offensive, but I could imagine you would perceive it as
      such."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that is your usual phrase," the Queen said calmly, "then you
      may."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, Your Majesty. As I mentioned before, our culture is
      very different from yours. In Europe, the Muggle world – that is,
      the normal world you are used to – and the magical world diverged
      in the sixteenth century, when the International Statute of Secrecy
      was passed. Given the significant changes in the Muggle world alone
      since then, I hope you can appreciate the vast gap which has sprung
      up between the two peoples. What is more, there are not many of us;
      in the UK, we number in the thousands rather than the millions.
      Partly as a result, our society is based around tradition, families
      and nobility, although accomplishment is also valued, both in the
      form of magical ability and prowess in other areas, such as trade
      or politics."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He took a deep breath. "In a society so fundamentally focused
      around family heritage, bloodlines and power, it is unfortunate but
      probably not surprising that many of our kind look down on those
      who do not possess magic, and even on those who are magically
      weaker. Our near-complete isolation from the Muggle world only
      exacerbates that issue. This somewhat contemptuous view is...
      pervasive, although certainly not universal."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So what you mean to say," a woman asked, "is that the views of
      your leader do not represent those of the majority?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">That would hardly be accurate,</em></span> Malfoy
      hissed in Harry's mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If that is the case," another pointed out, "it would seem
      unexpected for the majority to elect a leader with those
      views."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the woman who had spoken. "Madam, we have very
      little contact with Muggles. As such, this is usually not a major
      political issue. I believe most of our kind don't really think
      about Muggles at all. For all that we live in the same country,
      witches and wizards tend to remain in their own bubble. In truth,
      for most of my friends I could not say for sure how they feel on
      the subject; whether they think of Muggles as equals, inferiors,
      people who have a handicap or even a strange species living
      completely different lives. It doesn't really come up."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some of the Muggle representatives looked disturbed at that
      communication. <span><em class="calibre8">They seem offended. Best follow up on
      that,</em></span> Malfoy suggested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think this is mainly ignorance, however," Harry quickly
      added. "Now that the Statute of Secrecy can no longer be continued,
      our people – Muggle and Magical – will be able to get to know each
      other, and overcome prejudices. For a start, little though I
      suspect any of us would like to see a continuation of the last
      days, I believe many of our people have been shaken to the
      realization that Muggles have power too, even without magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some of the Muggles smirked at that, others shifted
      uncomfortably. The Queen nodded solemnly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In regards to that, I believe an explanation from our side is
      warranted as well," she spoke. "The assaults on your people – and
      most importantly your school – were not approved by any
      governmental body. We have traced down the order to Lieutenant
      General Richard Darrens, although he was supported by several
      lesser officers in our military. The Lieutenant General seems to
      have committed suicide after realizing the consequences of his
      actions, but the others have been arrested. Please rest assured
      that the act of firing a nuclear weapon on an unknown target will
      not go unpunished."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Do not speak of Mr. Johnson,</em></span> Dumbledore
      warned. <span><em class="calibre8">We must intercede, but will surely find a way to
      do so in private.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">I wasn't going to,</em></span> Harry replied.
      <span><em class="calibre8">But the culprit's suicide is a hint we should not
      neglect. It is the ultimate way to stop us from testing whether he
      acted under the Imperius Curse.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you," Harry said. Then, to the querying looks, "I am
      using a spell to communicate with my colleagues in silence, to
      avoid either arguing in front of you or accidentally supplying
      incorrect information. In this case, we were briefly debating what
      your information implies for the intelligence our own people have
      gathered. I am sure that you are similarly connected with people
      not in this room."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Queen smiled. "Indeed we are. Thank you for your
      explanation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the men cleared his throat. "On this topic, on behalf of
      the United Nations, I wanted to ask... do you know what happened to
      the first missile? Our instruments have only shown the impacts of
      the second and third."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">The one you diverted?</em></span> Harry queried
      Dumbledore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">A small island in the North Sea,</em></span>
      Dumbledore supplied. <span><em class="calibre8">Abandoned and safe from Muggles or
      even sea animals. I have done what I could to contain the radiation
      damage afterwards, in particular by renewing the wards to keep any
      living being from entering or leaving the surrounding
      area.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We diverted the missile to an abandoned island in the North
      Sea," Harry repeated smoothly. "We hope that our precautions will
      keep the contamination in hand, but we shall of course supply you
      with the necessary information to confirm the safety of the waters
      for yourself."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The man nodded. "We would appreciate that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence, broken by the Queen. "Perhaps you
      could explain what has happened in these past weeks?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. "Naturally. I suppose there are several parts to
      tell. You remember, of course, the man our Minister told you of –
      the 'terrorist' as your people said, who has led several attacks on
      the Muggle world, including one particularly devastating one."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some people nodded, but he also saw frowns. "Surely you aren't
      going to claim that all of the violence directed at our citizens
      was by some convenient madman?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said sadly. "That would be a lie. In the last week,
      several of our people have taken part in the violence. This was not
      government-sanctioned – indeed, we have made several arrests – but
      was initiated by the people themselves, either responding to the
      loss of the Statute of Secrecy or acting in retaliation." He spread
      his hands helplessly. "As I have said, several of our people
      consider themselves superior to Muggles, but most never think about
      it, and would certainly not engage in such acts. There are a few,
      however, some pathetic few, who like to feel superior by showing
      their dominance over people who cannot fight back so effectively.
      That is why you have seen wizards attacking Muggles in the streets,
      biting doorknobs, poisonous mists and other such nastiness – those
      same people, had they no magic, would be torturing animals or
      abducting children. It's the same kind of mindset. Our government
      and law enforcement agency absolutely do not condone this sort of
      behavior, and there <em class="calibre8">have</em> been arrests, but unfortunately
      in the general unrest too many such people managed to slip under
      the radar – which is what they counted on, of course."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He paused for some moments, waiting for his words to sink in,
      then continued. "The others were acting in misguided retaliation.
      When Muggles attack witches or wizards, there will be those of our
      kind who decide to strike back – and they do not distinguish one
      group of Muggles from the rest. Especially after the attack on our
      school, and the subsequent attack on the refugee children. Our
      community is small – with eighty children dead, a large share of
      our people have lost someone they loved. So yes, unfortunately many
      have been guided by fear and irrational hatred towards the group
      rather than the few individuals who actually caused all this harm.
      It is wrong, but in the end, it is human nature, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">They can't exactly fault your reasoning
      there,</em></span> Hermione observed as some of the assembled
      people nodded slightly. <span><em class="calibre8">Not without having to explain
      what Muggle citizens</em> <em class="calibre8">have been doing.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," the Queen spoke. "But that is not how this
      started."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Indeed," Harry conceded. "This was started by an individual
      who, it seems, was seeking to overthrow the Statute of Secrecy and
      create bad blood between magical and non-magical people at the same
      time. He is the man our Minister referred to as Quirinius Quirrell,
      although I am quite sure that is not the man's real name, but
      rather an assumed identity under which he has taught at Hogwarts
      School for a short period. After being exposed, he has twice
      attacked Muggles in a very blatant, very hard to hide way, both of
      which our Ministry ended up covering up in a rather immoral way,
      because the preservation of the International Statute of Secrecy
      weighed higher to them than the lives affected. Having met the man,
      I can only assume that he was counting on this line of action to
      create hostility."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You call your own government immoral?" One of the men asked
      surprised, even as Lucius hissed in his mind about rash
      comments.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I called their <em class="calibre8">actions</em> in this instance immoral, as
      there is little point in denying that they were. Whether or not
      these actions were preferable to the alternative – violating a
      century-old international treaty of world-changing impact – is a
      question for debate. It might be worth observing that in fact a war
      started within days of secrecy being lost, so some of these fears
      were not unfounded, although I must confess this might well have
      been avoided if we'd handled the situation better."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">You're overdoing it!</em></span> Lucius snapped.
      <span><em class="calibre8">You're practically down on your knees apologizing for how
      terrible we are. If you continue acting weak like this, they will
      try to walk all over us!</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Muggles were clearly thinking on the same lines. Some were
      looking surprised, others wore smirks, clearly classifying him as a
      stupid little kid. One woman was sending shrewd looks at the older
      wizards behind him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, Lord Potter," the Queen began. "Your honesty is
      certainly... refreshing. But I notice you didn't mention the events
      of Monday last week. Is it usual for one person in your world to be
      able to do such widespread damage in so little time?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It really isn't," Harry said decisively. "But these were...
      special circumstances. Explaining this requires a little
      background, however. May I?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," nodded the Queen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you, your Majesty. In the history of magic, we have a
      long tradition of 'knowledge which is not to be spoken'. Some magic
      is extremely dangerous, and if you tell people who do not possess
      the – the skills, or maturity, to handle the knowledge properly, it
      could lead to very dangerous consequences." He saw some of the
      ambassadors frowning, so he added: "Suppose for example that a
      scientist discovered a formula to make an atomic bomb with common
      household equipment. You wouldn't want him to publish it in the
      newspapers. In fact, you probably wouldn't want him to publish it
      at all." There were some nods, some frowns, and some hesitant
      looks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I realize that in the Muggle world it might be hard to keep
      such knowledge quiet forever. But in the wizarding world, there are
      <em class="calibre8">many</em> things like that. And therefore we have a long
      tradition of secrecy."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">One of the men snorted. "What you're saying is that magic is so
      dangerous it should be forbidden!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, sir," Harry said politely, turning to him. "Would you
      rather drive it underground, or teach people how to use magic
      properly and <em class="calibre8">not</em> to explode the country or spill secrets
      that would achieve that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I suppose I see the point," the Queen nodded. Whether or not
      she <em class="calibre8">agreed</em> was a separate matter, but she had been trained
      from birth to be a diplomat, and obviously wasn't going to be
      judgmental. "Although I wonder how this is relevant?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"A particular piece of knowledge," Harry explained. "There is –
      was – a certain extremely dangerous kind of magical creature. We
      call them 'Dementors'. Pius?" The Senior Secretary to the Minister
      carefully reached inside his robes and a vision appeared before
      them. The Muggles gasped.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Muggles cannot see them," Harry continued. "Yet they can feel
      them. They suck away life and happiness, and if unconstrained, can
      reduce their victims to a comatose state which, our oldest sources
      say, is worse than death. In the best case, this could simply mean
      that they are brain-dead while their bodies continue to function,
      as empty hulls. In the worst case, they have lost control over
      their bodies but continue to live, in constant agony."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">That is</em> not <em class="calibre8">the worst case,</em></span>
      Dumbledore reminded him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><span><em class="calibre8">Shut up,</em></span> Harry suggested. <span><em class="calibre8">I'm
      not going to confuse matters by bringing up souls.</em></span></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is a certain spell to defend against Dementors," he
      continued. "It conjures up a magical guardian, which will keep the
      Dementors at a distance and stop them from attacking or affecting
      people near the guardian. For over fifteen hundred years, witches
      and wizards have kept Dementors controlled, keeping them away from
      Muggles, because there was no way to kill them. There was one flaw
      in this spell, however. It only works if you do not understand the
      nature of Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That they represent death?" A man asked. "That was what the
      voice said."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry nodded. "Many witches and wizards might have known,
      but they never spoke of it, for the knowledge would harm other
      people. Last week, however, it seems this man <em class="calibre8">deliberately</em>
      broke the rule to not share harmful information. No longer
      controlled, the Dementors attacked. You have seen the results."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How did you get them to stop?" The man who had spoken on behalf
      of the UN asked interestedly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, earlier this year, I have discovered not only the secret,
      but a way to destroy Dementors. Most people cannot do it, and
      naturally I had to be very restrained in telling people about it,
      as the spell to destroy them required understanding of the nature
      of Dementors first, a secret which I knew had to be guarded.
      However, a few of my friends managed to learn the spell. Our
      Director of Magical Law Enforcement has then sent us around the
      world to help mitigate the damage. Since no further Dementors have
      been reported in over a week, I suspect we got them all. As such,
      this event cannot be repeated."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He was met with disbelieving looks. One man actually snorted.
      "Convenient. Not only is there a single point of blame for all our
      troubles, we are also to accept that you, personally, are the hero
      who saved the entire world?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, sir," Harry politely pointed out, "there <em class="calibre8">is</em> a
      reason my people chose an eleven-year-old to represent them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I think he's telling the truth, Clyde," a woman spoke up. "I
      thought I recognized him, earlier. He was in the videos, one of
      those children with the silvery light. And so was <em class="calibre8">she</em>."
      The woman pointed at Hermione.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's not the only thing we have on video," the man bounced
      back. "What about all the murders by wizards in those hours?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Those people we could not save from the Dementors might have
      been in unspeakable agony," Harry reminded him. "So a number of
      volunteers have quietly put them to rest. They intended it as a
      mercy." He ignored Dumbledore's quick mental warning not to say
      more; he wasn't planning to mention his own opinion on the point,
      not unless they asked. It would be good to discuss this with
      medical professionals, but saying that his people may have been
      responsible for tens of thousands of unnecessary murders due to
      ignorance, presumption and a misguided hope to be able to save some
      secrecy was probably not the best thing to bring up early in the
      negotiations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm not talking about that! What about the attacks on London
      Bridge or the Birmingham Underground? There was nothing wrong with
      the people there!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, <em class="calibre8">those</em> attacks. Sorry. Yes, you're right. Almost
      all the Dementors in the UK and Ireland were in a single place,
      which Hermione Granger handled very early on." <em class="calibre8">No need to
      mention quite</em> how <em class="calibre8">early on.</em> "As such, given the
      crisis all over the world, pretty much anyone who could make
      themselves useful was engaged helping out abroad. No one at the
      right positions realized what was happening here until it was too
      late. This was again... Quirrell, the single dark wizard intend on
      sowing chaos."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There were different people in different places," the man
      objected. "And women as well as men."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There is a potion, Polyjuice Potion, which allows the drinker
      to take on someone else's appearance. I suspect he used it multiple
      times."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He could <em class="calibre8">see</em> the disbelief in their eyes. In fact, he
      had to admit that it seemed like a bit of a stretch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To what purpose?" A different man asked. "Why would he do all
      that? Is he insane?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, not all," Harry breathed. "He is <em class="calibre8">extremely</em>
      sane."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He fixed the speaker with his eyes. "All the clues point in the
      same direction: he intended to start a war. It is not so strange,
      when you think about it. With a united magical front, we can easily
      win; with the cooperation of foreign magical governments, I daresay
      wizards could conquer the entire world. We end up with a peaceful
      magical utopia ruled by wizards, where Muggles take a subservient
      place, as many of our kind believe to be the natural order."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was a brief silence, broken by the Queen's polite cough.
      "And is that your purpose too, Lord Potter?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, no." Harry stood up for full effect, which was only
      slightly ruined by the fact that he was still shorter than most of
      the sitting people. "Not at all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You see," he spoke carefully (he had practiced this in his mind
      over and over). "The Ministry of Magical Britain have placed
      themselves fully behind me. The Wizengamot – our ruling body – have
      agreed to approve any treaty we create in these negotiations." He
      lifted the staff, ignoring the flinches in his audience, and took
      it in both hands. "We can reasonably say that I speak for all magic
      users in this country."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"From that position –" he threw the staff forwards, where it
      fell in front of the Queen's feet with a clatter, "I
      surrender."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
