<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 84: Following the Phoenix, Pt 2, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 84: Following the Phoenix, Pt 2</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">The cell was two by two meters, with a hard stone bench along
      one side and a bucket in the corner. The metal grate had closed
      behind the nice Auror man, but the Patronus remained, smiling
      warmly at her as it floated up and down the little cell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was quite sure that this was not how it was supposed to go,
      but she wasn't about to complain.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was cold here, despite the Patronus. She huddled up on the
      bench, wishing that she had a blanket. Wishing that she was
      anywhere but here, that it all <em class="calibre8">hadn't happened</em>, that she
      could still be good, that she wasn't a crazy cold-blooded murderess
      who would try to kill a fellow student in a moment of anger...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Why had she done that? Harry had seemed to be convinced that she
      hadn't, and for an instant during the trial she had wanted
      desperately to believe it. But he was wrong. She remembered the act
      with crystal clarity, and what logical alternative explanation
      could there be? She had been so convinced that Draco was plotting
      against her, and then, somehow, she had snapped. She would never
      have thought she held that kind of darkness inside her, but she did
      know enough about Memory Charms that you couldn't just create
      several weeks worth of obsession out of thin air. And why had she
      been so convinced? It had to be insanity because he <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em>
      been plotting against her, she had had no <em class="calibre8">reason</em> to
      believe that he had been, and he had testified under Veritaserum
      that he had really tried to help her –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt horribly sick and her breath caught again, but she
      pushed away the tears. She had cried most of yesterday and this
      morning, in the detention cell looking out on the Dementor that had
      guarded her during her trial, and now she was simply exhausted. She
      couldn't bear to cry again. She had been so, so scared, and now the
      worst had happened, and she was still scared. She should probably
      sleep, but what if she woke up and the badger wasn't there anymore?
      The Auror couldn't leave his Patronus with her indefinitely, he
      would need it to guard <em class="calibre8">himself</em>, and he would need to
      sleep, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And when it was gone, she'd be left to the Dementors. She
      remembered, all too well, how she had felt on the day the Dementor
      came to Hogwarts. How it took away all the brightness, all the
      love, showed her her family and friends lying dead, and the
      terrible sadness of dying alone. Then, she had run. But now there
      wouldn't be anywhere to run to, nowhere to stop them from taking
      away all her happy memories of her parents and her friends, and
      instead making her relive her worst memories over and over again.
      And she had a pretty good idea which memory that would involve in
      particular. Draco Malfoy, sending curses flying through the air
      with violent energy, until he dealt the ending blow with a hex that
      sent her crashing against the wall and drew blood from her cheek.
      The feeling of her blood temperature dropping, getting angrier than
      she'd ever been in her life. And then – then she'd...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione forced herself to push those thoughts aside. These
      might be her last hours of <em class="calibre8">not</em> having to think about it,
      why torture herself already? And there was one thing that she
      needed to do.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From a pocket of her robes, she recovered the little wax-sealed
      paper, marked <em class="calibre8">42</em>. She had carried it around since Harry
      had given it to her. Once, it had accidentally gone into the
      laundry with her robes and had come out wrinkled, but otherwise
      apparently unharmed. The Aurors had not confiscated it, because
      they had only checked her for magical items.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had remembered it, of course, when she was sitting in her
      detention cell, with Professor Flitwick standing guard by her side.
      But she had known that she should not read it yet; they had used
      Legilimency on her and might do so again. Harry had made it very
      clear that this was dangerous knowledge. But now, there would be no
      reason to read her mind anymore, would there? And maybe even
      without a wand, this would help against the Dementors, somehow.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With trembling fingers, she broke the seal, and unfolded the
      paper. By the silvery light of the Patronus, she read:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Since ancient times, Death has roamed the earth.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And it casts its shadows into the world.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The approach of Death drains your power.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The fear it exudes drains your happiness.<br class="calibre4"/>
      The kiss of Death destroys all that you are.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And it takes away the people we love.<br class="calibre4"/>
      But never believe that Death cannot be defeated.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Through science and magic, either or both, Homo sapiens can
      fight.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And we can win.<br class="calibre4"/>
      We are not there yet.<br class="calibre4"/>
      But either by our hand, or by that of our children, or our
      children's children.<br class="calibre4"/>
      We will end this dark stain upon the world.<br class="calibre4"/>
      Until Death is just a faded memory from dark times past.<br class="calibre4"/>
      And people won't have to say goodbye anymore.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She read the paper three times (even though she had memorized
      the words after the first time). Death. If Death was the answer,
      what was the question?</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">What is a Dementor?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She knew instantly that Harry was right. It fit so perfectly.
      The way they looked like a rotten corpse. And how the Dementor had
      shown her her parents dead, her friends dead –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The badger nuzzled her briefly. Animals did not understand about
      dying, and so they were not afraid. But <em class="calibre8">she</em> was, she was
      terrified – both of dying and of losing the people she cared about
      – and that was why the Dementor had affected her so. Most of the
      Ravenclaws had also not been able to cast a Patronus. Were they
      more afraid than others? Or were the other Houses better at
      persuading themselves not to think about it?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her brain felt like it was flying, finally connecting the dots.
      The Patronus Charm didn't run on magic, Mr. Lupin had said. It ran
      on all those bright warm feelings Dementors took from you. It was
      like turning away from Death, focusing on all the good things of
      life instead, and concentrating them into one solid block of life
      force that Dementors could not touch. But you couldn't do that if
      you knew you were doing it, you couldn't focus on life while
      thinking of death, it would be like trying not to think of a pink
      elephant.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Then I will cancel the Patronus Charms, and prevent any more
      Patronuses from being cast. And then my Dementor is going to Kiss
      everyone here who voted to send a twelve-your-old girl to
      Azkaban.</em> That was the other competitor for the worst memory of
      her life, the things Harry had almost done after she had pleaded
      for his help. And now she understood how he would have done it. All
      that would have to happen was for the Wizengamot and the Aurors to
      know the secret. Then Harry would have been the only one in the
      room able to cast a Patronus, and he could simply move it in place
      to only protect the faction on Dumbledore's side of the room. How
      could he even have contemplated it? Or had the Kiss been a bluff,
      and would he have protected the Lords and Ladies after all, once he
      gained power over them?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned back to the note. There was also the second part, and
      that was probably important. The note didn't just offer the secret
      of Dementors' nature, but also the clue to fighting them. Was this
      the happy thought he had used to cast a Patronus? <em class="calibre8">It wouldn't
      look like people think Patronuses should</em> <em class="calibre8">look</em>, that's
      what Harry had said. <em class="calibre8">A</em><em class="calibre8">nyone who saw it would know
      there was something strange going on.</em> How would a Patronus
      come out, when it was cast not with enjoyment of life, but with
      defiance of death?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And would she be able to do it? Harry had read a lot of science
      fiction. But the keyword there was <em class="calibre8">fiction</em>. Sometimes he
      talked of the bright, shining future of humanity, and he really
      believed that, but it all just seemed like a fantastic dream to
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But was it? <em class="calibre8">Could</em> it be done? Harry wanted to study
      magic experimentally, merge the wizarding and Muggle worlds,
      discover the secret of immortality and colonize the Solar System,
      that's what he had told her on the very first day they'd met. And
      he might even be able to pull it off, if he stopped doing stupid
      stuff like threatening to kill off half the political structure of
      Magical Britain, and focused on reading more books. His discovery
      of partial transfiguration proved that scientific knowledge really
      could improve magic. Little though she had liked to admit it
      before, if anyone could do the impossible, it was Harry, even if
      <em class="calibre8">most</em> of what he did was just tricks.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe Harry's bright future was just a fantastic childhood
      dream. But Martin Luther King had had a dream too, and while it
      hadn't quite come true yet, the world was well on its way. Maybe it
      <em class="calibre8">could</em> be done.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It <em class="calibre8">would</em> be rather marvelous if her parents would not
      wither with age and die at 80, but stay by her side. It would be
      wonderful if wizards or Muggles or a combination could figure out
      how to cure Alzheimer's disease – Harry's first idea might not have
      worked, but there were plenty of things they hadn't yet tried, like
      bringing together a specialist healer and actual patients to think
      of one obvious example – and cancer, and aids, and all those other
      diseases for that matter. If they could do away with the
      International Statute of Secrecy, and wizards could help Muggles in
      underdeveloped countries, if they could stop world hunger and
      inequality, if discrimination for race, gender and sexual
      orientation in the Muggle world would disappear as it had in the
      wizarding world. If wizards could drop their biases against
      Muggleborns – like Harry had apparently already convinced Draco
      Malfoy to do – and even work together with Muggles and members of
      other magical races. If she and Harry, and Padma and Hannah and
      Susan and all the others, and her parents and Professor McGonagall
      and <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> would live for a thousand years, without wars
      or Dark Lords, if they could learn to go to other planets and
      terraform them, if she could have children and grandchildren, and
      even get to know her own great-great-great-great-grandchildren some
      day –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It would be rather marvelous indeed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked around at the small cell, with a stone slab for a bed
      and a bucket for a toilet. It might be the right kind of thought to
      cast a Patronus Charm, but without a wand, it wouldn't do her much
      good. She was still in Azkaban, and there she would remain until
      she died, alone. There was only one thing left to do for her that
      would help the world, and that was to tear up the paper, and never
      give anyone cause to use Legilimency on her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There might be a bright future in store for humanity, but it
      didn't seem like Hermione Granger would be a part of it.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"I had not expected to see you here, Minerva."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned around, feeling rather like a rabbit caught stealing
      carrots. The mighty old wizard stood behind her, lowering his wand.
      She had sneaked into his Phoenix Price room, but apparently, she
      had not been careful enough.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And so I see that you have shifted your loyalties to Harry
      Potter," he sighed. "I cannot blame you. For what you have seen of
      me today, it is the right and proper thing to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She could not find the words to reassure him, perhaps because
      his conclusion was not <em class="calibre8">entirely</em> unfounded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Tell me, Minerva," he continued after a short pause. "You have
      known me long, and as well as anyone still alive. Have I lost
      myself to darkness today?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?" she said in genuine surprise. "Albus, no!" She
      <em class="calibre8">had</em> resented him, had been angry at him for overriding
      Harry's clever and generous plan to save Hermione. Like she had
      resented his decisions so many times before, during the last war.
      But she had always understood why he acted as he did. She might not
      like it – and she knew he <em class="calibre8">hated</em> it – but the simple fact
      was that time and again, the resulting events had proved his
      wisdom. When Albus had finally stopped following his heart, and had
      started administrating the war efforts in the ruthless but sensible
      way advocated by Mad-Eye instead, far fewer people died.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard's lips pressed together tightly before he spoke.
      "For the greater good. I have sacrificed so many, for the greater
      good. Today I condemned Hermione Granger to Azkaban for the greater
      good. And what is worse, I tried to persuade the hero to do the
      same. A first-year child, as innocent as I once was in his love and
      more dangerous even than Lord Voldemort in his anger, and I tried
      to tell him that he must sacrifice friends or even kill innocents
      for the <em class="calibre8">greater good</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The ancient wizard looked so pained, so broken, that she felt
      all her resentment trickle away. What <em class="calibre8">had</em> been going on
      between him and Harry?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus, stop being silly," she said firmly. "You are not
      Grindelwald, and nor is Harry. I know you did what you had to do
      today." She paused for a moment, considering. "And my first loyalty
      remains to you. But I am also doing as I must. Hermione might not
      yet be lost, Albus. Harry thinks we can save her."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah?" The headmaster hesitated. "And I suppose you came here for
      something of hers?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She shook her head. "Just a wand for her to use." Harry had
      asked her whether she could arrange a wand that could not be traced
      back to them, and she had nodded, and come here. As many people who
      had died in Albus's wars, there were plenty of wands in this room,
      not all of them broken, and some of them from before Ollivander's
      time or from foreign wandmakers. It was much harder to use another
      wizard's wand, but Harry had said that the wand would only be
      needed for minor magics, and as long as she took all the wands that
      <em class="calibre8">might</em> work, they could give Hermione the best match and
      put back the rest. She had not told Harry about this room, of
      course. It was too sad, too powerful for a child to be confronted
      with. She had simply told him that she would be right back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus silently looked at her for a long moment, and she felt a
      blush creeping up her cheeks. She <em class="calibre8">was</em> uncomfortable
      stealing from the good man, but it was for an honorable purpose,
      and she knew that he would never betray her when he discovered the
      theft. "I am certain that most of the people here would have been
      happy for their wands to be used in that way."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old man nodded slowly. "But what good will it do her to have
      a wand?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know," she confessed. Harry had fired off questions at
      her, making notes and crossing things out on his parchment, but
      hadn't really taken the time to explain himself. "Harry mentioned
      that she might learn to cast a Patronus Charm even there, but he
      did not say how. We talked about a lot of other things she might
      need a wand for too, but I think he rejected some of them."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So he does not intend to free her, at least?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"He would never risk her <em class="calibre8">soul</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard looked grave. "Did he <em class="calibre8">say</em> he wasn't
      planning to?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes. At least, I think he did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Albus sighed deeply. "Wait here."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard disappeared between the pedestals. Moments later
      he was back, carrying a wand she did not recognize.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Give her this one. I daresay she can use it almost as well as
      her own."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva blinked in surprise at that. How could the old wizard
      possibly know that? Even Garrick Ollivander could not choose a
      replacement wand just by sight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she blinked again, because she realized the
      implication.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you are not stopping me from doing this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He smiled feebly. "It might have been a long time ago, Minerva,
      but I was sorted into Gryffindor as well. I know that sometimes we
      must put aside what is wise, and do what is right."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Albus... thank you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard bowed his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will do more, if you will let me. I shall come with you to
      Azkaban, and help with whatever plan Harry has concocted. He has
      the intellect to match Lord Voldemort's, but he is not yet wise
      enough to fully understand the consequences of his actions, and I
      fear for him, and for you, if you should go unguarded."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You would do that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh yes," he sighed. "It is madness, of course. If anything goes
      wrong, the price will be far too high, and when next Lord Voldemort
      strikes, we may all be doomed. But that is not
      <em class="calibre8">certain</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Fawkes, who sat on his shoulder, let out a triumphant battle
      cry. Albus smiled, and stroked the creature.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I fear I have come too far from what I used to believe. Perhaps
      there is a better way. This once, I will follow the phoenix
      again."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
