<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>19. Following the Phoenix - Following the Phoenix Chapter 86: Following the Phoenix, Pt 4, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="19. Following the Phoenix"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s6" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 86: Following the Phoenix, Pt 4</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">Five to eight, in the Headmaster's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She was scared. Not in ten years had she done something like
      this. No, <em class="calibre8">never</em> had she done something like this; she had
      gone into dangerous situations, in the past, and even faced Lord
      Voldemort himself, but she had not faced Dementors, never really
      broken the law. In this school, she represented discipline. But
      then, if you could not break the rules even when they were wrong,
      you could not truly be a Gryffindor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster was feeding the chocolate bars into the newly
      made pouch, save for two bars which Harry had asked him to keep
      apart. Now, the boy with the green eyes and the scar on his
      forehead turned to her, holding out something made of a strange
      shimmering, black material.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I want you to wear this cloak. It will keep you safe while we
      are in Azkaban. That way, we won't need a Patronus, so we'll have a
      smaller chance of being discovered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She carefully took the cloak from his hands. "Invisibility
      cloaks don't do..." And then she felt the material on her skin. Her
      magic tingled, echoing the beauty and <em class="calibre8">rightness</em> of the
      feeling on her hands... "Where did you <em class="calibre8">get</em> this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's a family heirloom, but that's not the point. Please do not
      speak of this to others."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, even as, in her head, some cogwheels clicked and she
      <em class="calibre8">finally</em> understood how James Potter had done some of his
      stunts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The boy turned to the old wizard, now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you withstand the Dementors' drain for as long as it will
      take us to find Hermione?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can you?" she blurted out. "In January, you were... you
      got..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That was January," said Harry. "This is April." He smiled,
      then. "I have learned a lot, on that day and afterwards."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can, too," Albus confirmed. He took the bar of chocolate
      Harry offered him (even he could probably use the help while
      unprotected in Azkaban). Then, with a crack from Albus's wand, the
      boy disappeared. The old wizard turned to his phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Are you prepared to go back into Azkaban, Fawkes?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The phoenix let out a great, challenging cry. Dumbledore nodded,
      and the bird turned invisible. "And I suppose a silencing spell
      might be needed as well."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She pulled the cloak over her body and stepped to Albus's side.
      A small hand was thrust into her left hand. Her right hand grabbed
      Albus's. And then the old wizard, too, became invisible and they
      all disappeared.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Azkaban.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt it the moment they arrived. The Dementors... distant,
      but there. Hollow points of emptiness. Yet, somehow, their drain
      did not touch her. What <em class="calibre8">was</em> this cloak, how could it stop
      the most unstoppable creature on earth?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They were in a long corridor, in front of a large metal door.
      Albus had suggested that the Aurors would probably have put the
      child in their custody at a high level, rather than six levels down
      as was normally the suggested penalty for attempted murder. Beside
      her, she heard Albus quietly whispering some incantations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at the large metal door uncomfortably. Behind that
      door, prisoners were suffering. Her heart went out to them, and
      then to Harry, who was too young to have to see this kind of place.
      Yet for all his innocence, there had been no question of Harry
      staying behind. Of the three of them, <em class="calibre8">she</em> was the most
      dispensable one. She had come because she had been set on it, once
      the plans had been made – and because, if their presence should be
      discovered, she was the most innocent person to be found. Allowing
      herself to be caught might deflect attention and allow the others
      to remain undiscovered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She briefly considered placing a quieting barrier to protect the
      boy from whatever he might hear, but there was already no sound to
      be heard besides the old wizard's muttering. Albus had probably set
      up his own silencing wards the instant they arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I found her," the old wizard's voice spoke in a whisper. "She's
      one level up from here. We shall have to tunnel through a
      floor."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">None of them spoke further, as they waited. It felt like the
      corridor was entirely empty, save for the flickering gas lamps
      which only served to give this place an eerie atmosphere. And then
      at last, golden lines appeared on the ceiling, and a new trapdoor
      opened.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A small hand grabbed hers, and she felt a weightless sensation
      as she was lifted into the air. Fawkes, again. They arrived in the
      higher corridor, gently touched down on the ground, and the hole in
      the floor disappeared again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This way." A golden light very briefly lit up and moved to the
      right. She followed it, and saw the metal door ahead open.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She braced herself for the sight of Hermione and maybe others
      that would meet her there, and went through the door. It closed and
      locked behind her. Then she looked around, and blinked, for a
      silvery light illuminated the block of cells.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There, in the very last cell of this block, lay Hermione on a
      stone bench. She was sleeping, curled up into a tight ball. And
      there was a fox Patronus standing guard inside her cell.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">(Earlier)</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Leela peeked into the breakroom. "Mike?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes?" Auror Li put down that morning's edition of The Quibbler,
      whose headlines were of course filled with the case of Granger
      versus Malfoy (apparently Malfoy had been possessed by the spirit
      of Baba Yaga, and Granger's spell had cast it out into Mrs. Norris,
      the caretaker's cat), but which also contained some lighter
      material on a mixed magpie-dragon breed being spotted in
      France.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Call back your Patronus. I will take care of the girl."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Li blinked. "You will?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Leela smiled, and her fox vanished. "You're not the only one who
      feels that this situation is screwed up, you know. Tom is fully on
      our side. And I bet that from the morning crew, Godric will help
      too."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the corner of the room, Bahry snorted. (He was talking to
      his wife by Patronus, but that wouldn't catch speech directed at
      others.) "I can just see Malfoy grouching when he finds out. Guess
      it never crossed anyone's mind that Azkaban is guarded solely by
      people who can cast a Patronus."</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">"There are no Aurors nearby," came Albus's voice. He was still
      invisible; there was no reason for him to show himself. "One of
      them is keeping her shielded from a distance. In fact, it looks
      like they deliberately placed her away from other prisoners, where
      they could do so undetected. Harry, we may not need to interfere
      here. If the Aurors are protecting her, she should be safe until
      such time as we can secure her release. There is no need for you to
      sacrifice your cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No." Harry's voice. "It is too great an assumption that they'll
      <em class="calibre8">always</em> keep her shielded. We only know that someone is
      doing it <em class="calibre8">now</em>. I'm not going to risk Hermione's life on
      that chance, you don't even need to be properly pessimistic to see
      that it would be stupid. Plus, if they actually do keep her
      protected at all times, she won't need to <em class="calibre8">use</em> the cloak,
      so she can keep it in the secret part of the pouch and has little
      chance of discovery."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Minerva blinked as she understood. Of course, <em class="calibre8">that</em> was
      the plan. The cloak, which somehow managed to shield her from the
      Dementors' fear, would do the same for Hermione. It was simple and
      elegant, and she wondered why Harry had been reluctant to explain
      this part.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it didn't matter. There was a child, and it needed her
      comforting. She waved her wand and the cell door clicked open (it
      was only a non-magical lock, as Dementors would drain magic over
      time, so that was easy), stepped inside, and took off her
      cloak.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hermione Granger woke up, she instantly remembered where
      she was. The silvery Patronus light fell on her closed eyelids, and
      a knot of misery tightened in her stomach. It had not all been a
      nightmare. She was still in Azkaban, she was still a convicted
      attempted-murderess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then she realized what had awoken her: a soft hand on her
      shoulder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione's eyes flung open, and looked into the gentle face of
      Professor McGonagall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"P-Professor?" She sat up, too confused to know what more to
      say. There was a trickling sound to the left, and she looked and
      saw Harry. "Harry?!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Boy-Who-Lived grinned cheekily, and held up two fingers. "I
      didn't do anything you would disapprove of. Promise."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"W-what are you doing here?" she stammered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We're here for you," Professor McGonagall said kindly. "I am
      sorry, we cannot take you away from here. But we can at least make
      all this less hard on you until we can prove your innocence and get
      you out through the legal system."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Something in her stomach unknotted, as she looked from Professor
      McGonagall to Harry, who nodded in agreement.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You really think I'm innocent?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course you are, Miss Granger. I know you, you would never do
      such a thing. The Headmaster believes as I do, too, even if he
      could not say so before the Wizengamot without making your
      situation worse. Whether it was a Memory Charm or even darker
      magic, I am quite certain that your own will had no part in
      this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione just stared at the wall. She wanted desperately to
      believe it, that the darkest thing she had ever done had not really
      been her. It would be her greatest wish, more than being free and
      going back to her parents; she could even accept staying in Azkaban
      and being eaten by Dementors if it meant that she <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em>
      really done that, that she could still be good... But could it
      really be true?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Surely <em class="calibre8">you</em> don't believe it?" said Professor
      McGonagall. "Miss Granger, surely you have never thought yourself
      to be capable of murder?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But I –" Her excellent memory helpfully replayed it for the
      thousandth time, no matter how little she wanted to think about
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">""But you remember doing it all the same," spoke the older witch
      with a note of understanding. "Miss Granger, this is one of the
      things I came here to do. You have gone through a terrible ordeal;
      you deserve reprieve and kindness and rest, and instead you were
      sent to this horrible place. We cannot undo those grievances, but
      at the very least there is no reason for you to bear such dreadful
      memories. I would be happy to remove them from you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A strange feeling of hope stirred in her chest. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your memories of the duel might well be complete fabrications.
      There is no need to remember much more than simply the
      <em class="calibre8">story</em> of what supposedly happened." Professor McGonagall
      turned her head to the side, towards the grate. "Although I believe
      the Headmaster would like to make sure nothing important is lost
      first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The Headmaster?</em> And then there was another trickling
      sound, and there, behind Harry, stood Albus Percival Wulfric Brian
      Dumbledore, Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot and many things
      besides, the phoenix flaming brightly on his shoulder. The most
      powerful wizard in the world was standing in her cell. She felt
      very small all of a sudden. It was one thing for Harry and
      Professor McGonagall to break into Azkaban for her, but –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The great hero who had defeated Grindelwald stepped forward, in
      the small space of the cell.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Miss Granger, you will not remember any of this, but most
      importantly you will not remember my presence. Harry and Minerva
      can afford to be found here, but I cannot. I most sincerely
      apologize."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay," she found herself stammering, even though her mind
      had not processed far beyond "will not remember any of this".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have shown extraordinary braveness today, and now I must
      ask you to be brave once more. Will you share your memories with
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">From the folds of his robes, Professor Dumbledore recovered a
      stone basin (which really was far too large to have fit there, but
      she was used to her Mokeskin Pouch by now so it didn't surprise her
      all that much). "I will cast the necessary spells. Your task will
      be to recall all your relevant memories – in as much detail as you
      can remember – and will them into the Pensieve. You absolutely must
      provide the duel, for this is where we are most likely to find
      clues, and everything that followed, until the moment of your
      arrest. In addition, there may be earlier memories which are
      relevant for study, such as the moment you received Draco's
      challenge and anything else you can think of that might be suspect.
      Are you prepared to share those memories with me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What was one more time, when she had gone through it over and
      over in her mind? Of course, it <em class="calibre8">would</em> mean he would have
      her darkest memories in his possession. Would he think badly of
      her, when he saw them? But Professor McGonagall <em class="calibre8">had</em> said
      that the Headmaster believed she was innocent...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded, and the old wizard started speaking
      incantations.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took a long time, and it was very painful. The spells
      immersed her in the memories again, playing them out visually. She
      had to force herself to continue several times. And then, when the
      last of the memories finally disappeared into the Pensieve, she
      looked up, at the lined face of the Headmaster, at Professor
      McGonagall who was close to tears, and at Harry, who had a
      thoughtful look on his face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What are you thinking, Harry?" She asked tiredly. "You don't
      hate me now, do you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He waved a hand dismissively. "Of course not, don't be stupid.
      But I think I can prove your innocence with this. You bled, at the
      end of the duel. I saw you put that memory in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I cut open my cheek on that final blast."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But you can't cast <em class="calibre8">Episkey</em>, can you? I don't think
      uncontrolled wandless magic would let you do things you cannot do
      with a wand. And I didn't see you talking to anyone else.
      <em class="calibre8">However</em>, you had no scar or cut or anything in the
      morning."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That... <em class="calibre8">did</em> seem strange, now she came to think of it.
      A part of the miserable weight in her stomach lifted, and the cell
      seemed just a little bit brighter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall was practically bouncing. "But this is
      evidence! We can prove to the Wizengamot that she is innocent!"
      Professor Dumbledore, however, just shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The trial has been and gone. We would need strong additional
      evidence to have the case re-examined, and as this is a blood debt,
      Lucius himself would have to agree to a re-trial. A single cut – it
      <em class="calibre8">can</em> be explained in other ways, even if those are
      unlikely. The memory would not persuade him, even if we could find
      a way to bring up the subject to him without confessing to the
      crime of breaking into Azkaban."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But Draco might have the same memory," Harry piped up.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It will not be enough for Lord Malfoy, as Draco has not seen
      the rest."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's enough for me," Hermione whispered. The realization was
      starting to filter through her mind now. She really was innocent...
      Her head swam.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Headmaster smiled. "Did you still doubt? Well, it matters
      little now. I have some other questions for you still. The Pensieve
      captures your thoughts, but cannot show them to others... So tell
      me, when did you first start believing Draco Malfoy and Professor
      Snape were plotting against you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I – I don't <em class="calibre8">know</em>, why I thought that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's probably because the reason why you thought that was
      removed from your memory," Harry put in. "But let's pin it down.
      Were you thinking it the day after Snape... disbanded SPHEW, when
      you asked me to borrow my cloak?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," she whispered. She had been planning to go into the
      Slytherin Dungeons, if she had been worried about Malfoy and Snape
      then it would have been at the forefront of her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And the day afterwards, when you sat away from me at
      breakfast?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She nodded slowly. She wasn't sure anymore why she had wanted to
      avoid Harry... She'd been afraid to tell him... what?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How long were you in the Slytherin Dungeons?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It couldn't have been more than about an hour or so... Probably
      much less."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then why did you miss the Sunshine Planning Meeting? Susan said
      no one understood where you'd been."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd been... tired, when she got back. And confused, and
      worried, and desperately afraid of Snape and Draco. And it was
      later than she had thought it would be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I see," Harry nodded. "Something happened either in the
      dungeons, or on the way back. We may have to talk to Daphne for
      more information."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Could you share that memory with me, too?" Professor Dumbledore
      asked gently. She nodded, and he started the incantations
      again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When it was all over, Professor McGonagall was looking sharp.
      Harry and Professor Dumbledore, too, looked like they had seen
      something in the memory that she had not. "What is it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I can at least see how Daphne got her warnings, Miss Granger,"
      Professor McGonagall said with a frown. "I shall be having words
      with Miss Margaret Bullstrode."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What I find interesting," Harry broke in before she could ask
      more, "is that at least two hours must have passed between you
      borrowing my cloak and your arrival back in the Ravenclaw Common
      Room, seeing as the sun had gone down already by then. Yet the
      Memory itself couldn't be much more than half an hour. An hour,
      tops. Something happened there that you were made to forget
      about."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore nodded sadly. "I agree. That much seems evident."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She slumped on the stone bench. "I don't like this. I could
      <em class="calibre8">always</em> rely on my memory."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked slightly guilty. "At least knowing where the holes
      are, and what they are caused by, should help, shouldn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione nodded, and smiled weakly. "I guess it does." And it
      proved that someone, apparently, had manipulated her. That she was
      innocent. And that was worth more than anything, even more than a
      consistent memory.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then her thoughts <em class="calibre8">slipped</em> in a brief moment of
      disorientation, like she'd just lost her track of thought. She
      looked back at Professor McGonagall, who had just offered to remove
      her memories of what she'd done (<em class="calibre8">supposedly</em> done, the
      Deputy Headmistress <em class="calibre8">had</em> said that she was probably
      innocent); that was probably why she was feeling so relieved
      now...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You can <em class="calibre8">remove</em> the memory?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The older witch shook her head, as if to clear her mind from
      something. But then the woman took out her wand, and pointed it at
      her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, I can. I cannot offer to remove everything; your current
      situation would not make sense to you if I removed the trial, for
      instance. But at the very least you do not need to remember the
      duel, and this <em class="calibre8">fabrication</em> of what you supposedly
      did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione stared at the wand.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">No more guilt</em><em class="calibre8">.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Perhaps Professor McGonagall and Harry were right, and it all
      hadn't happened, maybe she really was innocent. If Professor
      McGonagall removed her memories of the duel, then she would have no
      trouble at all believing whatever they put in place instead. She
      would have nothing to blame herself for anymore.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But even as she started to say yes, a feeling of reluctance rose
      inside her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She hadn't said anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She'd woken up and remembered what had happened the night
      before, and it had been like – like – she couldn't find words even
      in her own thoughts for what it had been like. But she'd known that
      Draco Malfoy was already dead, and she hadn't said anything, hadn't
      gone to Professor Flitwick and confessed. She'd just dressed
      herself and gone down to breakfast and <em class="calibre8">tried to act normal</em>
      so that nobody would ever know, and she'd known it was wrong and
      Wrong and horribly horribly WRONG but she'd been so, so scared
      –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even if they were right, even if the duel with Draco Malfoy was
      a lie, she'd made that choice all by herself. She didn't deserve to
      forget that, or be forgiven for it. For that decision alone, she
      deserved everything she had got. And if she forgot the duel, she
      would never understand the relevance of that decision.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't deserve to forget," she said in a wavering voice. "I'm
      a horrible person, I'm not heroic at all –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall's voice was very sharp, like Hermione had
      just made some dreadful mistake on her Transfiguration homework.
      "Stop being foolish, Miss Granger! Horrible is whoever did this to
      you. And as for being heroic –"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry interrupted. "Let her explain. This may be
      important." He turned to her. "Why do you say that?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because I... I didn't confess." She felt tears coming up behind
      her eyes again, and pushed them away. "I should have, maybe
      <em class="calibre8">something</em> could still have been saved, it was
      <em class="calibre8">wrong</em> to try to hide what I did, but I was just so, so
      scared."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course you were," Professor McGonagall sighed. "Almost
      anyone in your place would have acted the same."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why?" said Hermione's voice, which seemed to be running on
      without her mind, now. "Why couldn't I be braver? I was going to
      run in front of the Dementor – for Harry – before, I mean, in
      January – so why – why – why couldn't I –" Why had the thought of
      being sent to Azkaban just completely <em class="calibre8">unglued</em> her, why had
      she forgotten everything about being Good –</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And then you stopped me from protecting you in the Wizengamot,"
      Harry pointed out when she trailed off. "You might have been too
      scared of the Dementors at first, but in the end, you did something
      much greater than confessing. You averted disaster today,
      Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She almost smiled. Almost. "Anyone would have done that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Harry said seriously. "They really wouldn't have. Didn't
      you see how surprised all those purple robes were at your response?
      You really are a hero, Hermione."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She looked at the ground. "Being a hero is nothing like what I
      thought it'd be. But that's what you were all trying to tell me
      before, isn't it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall just hugged her, then, and held tight for
      many long seconds. It was very comforting. When she let go,
      Hermione had made up her mind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Still, I... I don't think it's right to just
      <em class="calibre8">forget</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you won't have to," Harry decided. "Professor, would it be
      possible to simply modify the memory? In a blatant way, to make it
      clear that it is false? Like, we could add subtitles, saying 'don't
      believe this, it was implanted' or something?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That... would require a fair bit of skill to do well."
      Professor McGonagall hesitated. "But I am sure it can be
      arranged."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But –" Hermione started protesting. Harry turned to her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This isn't just to make your life easier. I have a few plans to
      help you, but if they all fail, then you might end up under the
      Dementors' power, maybe briefly, maybe longer. The last thing you
      need is to dwell on an implanted memory that would give you
      completely the wrong idea of what kind of person you are."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He had a point. "Okay."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So, I think we've got everything covered." Harry decided.
      Strange, how <em class="calibre8">he</em> was obviously in charge, and not Professor
      McGonagall. "And now I would like to talk to Hermione, alone. It
      should be safe to use your Patronus – you may see some strange
      things from over there, but as long as you don't hear anything it
      will be fine, I think."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall nodded. "What do you want me to do if
      anyone is coming?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The moment an Auror even stirs out of their Headquarters, just
      drop your Patronus, come back here instantly and Obliviate the
      whole thing. If that's not an option for whatever reason, just buy
      me enough time to hide."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre8">Expecto Patronum!</em>" A silvery cat appeared next to the
      fox, and preceded Professor McGonagall out of the cell. Hermione
      blinked, confused, but Harry did not seem about to explain. He just
      took out his wand, and cast some silencing barriers. "I think it's
      time I told you about Dementors."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I read your note," she volunteered. "I think I understand."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, you did?" He looked relieved. "That's great, that'll make
      the Memory Charms a lot easier."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Memory Charms?" she repeated, as he grabbed around his neck,
      and suddenly held a cord that hadn't seemed to be there a moment
      before.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry had the decency to look guilty. "Yes. I don't
      <em class="calibre8">like</em> messing with your memory, but it would be too
      dangerous if you remembered me being here, they might give you
      Veritaserum again. But let's not talk about that for the moment, we
      can discuss it later." He pulled a thin pouch from his neck, and
      then summoned a wand out of it. "The spell is called the <em class="calibre8">True
      Patronus Charm</em>. Cast it. I want to know whether it works for
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She took the unfamiliar wand with a trembling hand. A slight,
      warm tingle surged through her fingers when she touched it, as had
      happened when she had first touched her own wand. Then she closed
      her eyes, cleared her mind, and tried to call back all those
      emotions she'd felt before. She thought of the future Harry had
      painted, and the vision she had imagined before. Finding a way
      around aging and disease. Curing all the world's problems. And here
      was Harry, doing the impossible by breaking into Azkaban for her.
      Maybe she <em class="calibre8">could</em> be part of this bright future. Maybe she
      could help to make it happen.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Expecto Patronum!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">And out of her wand burst an enormous silvery humanoid, its
      light like a sun, far outshining the fox's brightness. She almost
      dropped her wand in shock, and the figure dimmed a little.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Steady!" Harry warned. "Hold on to that thought."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She held onto it then. It was easier to imagine the world
      turning out okay, as she looked into the sun-like brightness of the
      figure. It was neither a man nor a woman, but it looked human, and
      it seemed to smile at her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I did it." She looked up into Harry's eyes, which were
      twinkling with delight, too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I always knew you had it in you to destroy Dementors, Hermione.
      But now cancel it. We have a few more things to do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He started taking out book after book from the pouch, and
      putting them on the stone bench.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I still don't understand," Hermione started to protest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't know how long it'll take me to legally get you out of
      there. If it takes too long I could break you out illegally and we
      can hide you in America or something, but then you would be a
      fugitive for the rest of your life, so I'd rather not do that. So
      for now, you'll have to stay put. With the wand, you can shield
      yourself from the Dementors. The books will give you something to
      do."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That sounded reasonable. "What if the Aurors stop sending their
      Patronuses here? This is the second, the first Auror left his
      badger with me, but I don't know whether they're going to do that
      tomorrow, or next week. How will I sleep?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry grinned cheekily. "You know the three Deathly Hallows, and
      you have guessed that I have one. Tell me, what is it rumored to
      do?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It hides the wearer, even from Death's ga– <em class="calibre8">oh</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Exactly. You'll understand the full plan later. Now, take this,
      and feed the chocolate into it." He handed the pouch to her, and
      pointed to the large pile of chocolate, which was the last thing
      he'd taken out. "And then the books and the wand, but say 'Rowena'
      before each of them. Oh, and don't forget the cloak." As he bent
      down and picked up the shimmering black cloak from the ground, she
      realized it must have been there all along, even though she hadn't
      seen it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why? And why aren't you telling me the full plan now?" But she
      obeyed anyway, and started feeding the chocolate and the books into
      the pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Because it'll take time, and the longer we linger, the larger
      the chance we are discovered. And honestly, I'd rather not have to
      explain your having a <em class="calibre8">wand</em>." He canceled the silencing
      barrier and said, in a raised voice, "you may come back now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall returned, with a worried frown. "It is
      almost midnight. We should go soon, because the next change of the
      guard starts in a bit over an hour, complete with a feeding
      round."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes," Harry agreed. "Hermione, I'm really sorry, but you'll
      have to forget all this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Forget <em class="calibre8">all</em> of it? Forget that Harry and Professor
      McGonagall had come for her, that they believed that she was
      innocent; forget that there was still hope? It was like a slap to
      her face.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I don't want to," she whispered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If they catch you with the cloak, they will give you
      Veritaserum again, or they'll use Legilimency on you. It would be
      too dangerous if you knew for sure that I was involved. I'm
      <em class="calibre8">sorry</em>, I hate doing this to you. But instead, you will
      remember dreaming of some trustworthy figure telling you everything
      important. That's why we had to talk to you first, to know what we
      needed to tell you in the Memory Charm. Is that okay with you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It wasn't okay, not at all, but it did make sense, and she
      couldn't ask Harry to risk himself just so that she would remember.
      She nodded silently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor McGonagall gave her a long, warm hug. Harry did the
      same. And then Professor McGonagall took her wand out.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Please lie down on the bench." She did so, looking at her two
      kind helpers while she still could. The last thing she heard was
      <em class="calibre8">"Somnium"</em>.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">When Hermione Granger woke up, she instantly remembered where
      she was. The silvery Patronus light fell on her closed eyelids, and
      a knot of misery tightened in her stomach. It had not all been a
      nightmare. She was still in Azkaban, she was still a convicted
      attempted-murderess.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she also remembered the dream.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Hello Hermione," the shining silver otter had said. It was
      clearly a Patronus, and it spoke in her mother's voice, but how
      could that be? Her mother was not a witch...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I am not really here," the otter had continued. "You might
      think of me as a dream, or rather, a fake Memory Charm. I am not
      the first false memory you have been given, although I am rather
      more benevolent than the last one."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"The duel," she had volunteered.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Yes," the otter had agreed. "As your friend said during
      your trial, your memory has been altered. It is obvious to everyone
      who knows you that you could not, would not, have done such a
      thing. It would be obvious to you, if it had been someone else. And
      if you examine your memories, you will agree that they have been
      tampered with. You received a cut during the duel, and the next
      morning it wasn't there. That does not fit. And the day you went
      into the Slytherin Dungeons, it was still light when you left the
      dungeons, but full dark when you returned to Ravenclaw. That, too,
      does not fit. You are innocent."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Her heart had leaped at that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(And, thinking back, Hermione had to agree that the memory of
      the duel didn't <em class="calibre8">feel</em> very real. All the memories were
      there, but it was somehow overlain with a feeling of distance, that
      it wasn't really true. She hadn't had that idea when she remembered
      it before, but she probably felt differently because of what the
      otter had told her...)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"You still have friends, Hermione, who believe in your
      innocence. We will do everything in our power to prove it to the
      Wizengamot, and get you free. But for now, while you must remain
      here, I can offer you two independent forms of protection. To
      start, you might want to cast a Patronus whenever it is safe to do
      so."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"A Patronus?" She had repeatedly incredulously.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Yes," the otter had stated. "I know that you have learned
      in school how the spell works, and that you have since figured out
      why you failed, and how to do better. The light in you is strong,
      and I am certain that your Patronus will shine brighter than even
      the brightest Patronus you have seen."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(Brighter than <em class="calibre8">Dumbledore's</em>? But then, knowing the
      powerful dream Harry had hinted at in the little note, she could
      almost imagine it might be.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"If it is so bright, will it not be dangerous to
      me?"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(She could not remember why she had thought it might be.
      Although, come to think of it, a different kind of thought for this
      spell might turn it into a fundamentally different spell. And that
      is what Professor Quirrell had warned about, <em class="calibre8">ardently</em>, in
      his special safety lecture for Muggle-borns. Never, <em class="calibre8">ever</em>,
      cast potentially powerful spells without knowing <em class="calibre8">exactly</em>
      what they will do.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Yes, it might be. This Patronus is different from the ones
      you have seen; it cannot be sensed by Dementors, and it can even
      destroy them if you allow it to become bright enough. You will be
      tempted to do so, but you must never make it go that bright. The
      Patronus is not fueled by your magic, but by your life force. If
      you pour too much into it, you will die. If ever you feel your
      emotions going out of control while you have a Patronus active,
      drop your wand instantly."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"But I have no wand."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">The otter had swirled around, and a thin pouch had fallen on
      the floor below it.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Take it, and take the wand inside it. Wear it around your
      neck. You will also find some other things in there to pass the
      time,</em> <em class="calibre8">– as it may take a while before we can prove your
      innocence</em> <em class="calibre8">– and a scroll of parchment with useful spells
      should your circumstances change. Anything that the Aurors should
      not find on you, should be added back with a password 'Rowena'. But
      do <strong class="calibre7">not</strong> attempt to use it to escape. The penalty
      for that is the Dementors' Kiss, a fate generally considered to be
      worse than death."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"I will not." Inside the pouch, she had seen, were a lot of
      books. And –</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"This, Hermione Granger, is Ignotus Peverell's Cloak of
      Invisibility, rumored to shield the wearer even from Death's gaze.
      It will hide you from humans, although it does not stop you from
      being solid, and it does not block spells. However, when worn, it
      cannot be directly targeted. Most importantly, wearing the cloak
      will make you invulnerable to Dementors. This is the second
      protection I offer you. Do not let anyone see it, or fail to see
      you in your cell when they look. In fact, use it as little as
      possible. But if the Aurors' Patronus from your cell disappears,
      you can sleep under this cloak, and protect yourself with your wand
      while you're awake."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"How will I avoid discovery if I sleep under the cloak?" she
      had asked.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(An interesting question, as this <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> the first
      thought on her mind when re-examining the memory. Shouldn't she
      have asked first whether this was Harry's cloak? It certainly
      looked like it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But of course, the otter had <em class="calibre8">said</em>: it wasn't really
      there; this wasn't a real memory, it was planted. If she said
      things she wouldn't expect herself to say, and couldn't remember
      why, then that was probably because she <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just like she might not <em class="calibre8">really</em> have attacked Draco
      Malfoy...)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Wear the bracelet that you will find in the pouch. It is
      imbued with a spell to warn you whenever someone approaches. If you
      are asleep at the time, it will also wake you. Since the Aurors
      patrol every six to eight hours, you may have to get used to a
      segmented sleeping pattern."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">(That wasn't so bad, she knew. According to the historian A.
      Roger Ekirch, this had been the standard way of sleeping in humans
      for centuries; experiments by the psychiatrist Thomas Wehr had
      confirmed that humans naturally took to this habit, given enough
      darkness. She wasn't too sure of the details, since Harry's books
      had only mentioned this as a brief paragraph, but it was certainly
      worth trying.)</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Thank you," she had said, while hanging the pouch over her
      neck. She had really meant that.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"You are welcome. And now, I must depart. Farewell, Hermione
      Granger."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">And the otter had gently swirled around her, and then
      disappeared.</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Had it been a dream? No... it felt more real than that, somehow,
      even if it clearly wasn't. She touched her neck, and yes, there was
      the thin cord of the pouch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With a trembling hand, she held her hand over it. "Invisibility
      cloak."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She felt it before she properly saw it. A jolt of magic surged
      through her body. Her fingers tingled, and somehow, even though she
      couldn't make out the words, it felt like the cloak was
      <em class="calibre8">whispering</em> to her, or maybe singing a strange kind of song
      in the back of her head. She threw it around herself, and it warned
      her entire body.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This was <em class="calibre8">not</em> like Harry's cloak. There had been a bit
      of a tingle when taking his, and it had felt warm on her hand and
      delightfully soft on her skin, but she didn't remember the
      whispering or the music. And yet she had thought it was special at
      the time. Did Harry posses a fake, an invisibility cloak made in
      deliberate imitation of this one? Did he know?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But she shouldn't be wearing the cloak when she didn't need to.
      If an Auror came in, and saw the cell empty... She quickly removed
      the cloak, although she felt a bit sad as the fabric left her skin
      and the soft song in the back of her mind faded away. But she would
      wear it again, she knew, and that was a comfort. For now, she put
      it back into the pouch (remembering to say "Rowena" before doing
      so) and took out the bracelet, and the wand.</p>
      <hr size="1" noshade="noshade" class="calibre9"/>
      <p class="calibre6">They watched, behind the wall separating Hermione's cell block
      from the corridor they were standing in, as Hermione sat still and
      sorted through her "dreams". Professor Dumbledore had cast a spell
      to make the wall transparent, but only in one direction, so they
      could see how Hermione responded to the fake Memory Charm, but she
      could not see the large glowing cat Patronus that accompanied the
      invisible spectators: Harry, the two Professors, and the
      Phoenix.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The four of them watched, as Hermione wore the cloak and put it
      back, and then retrieved the bracelet and the wand. They watched as
      she wore the bracelet, and screwed up her eyes in deep
      concentration.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It took many long seconds. But then she made the movements of
      the spell, her mouth moved, and a great humanoid sprang from her
      wand. And they watched as Hermione carefully lowered her wand, and
      smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come. We have lingered long enough here." It was Dumbledore's
      voice. "Now let us move a few levels further from the guards, and
      depart."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Down the stairs, through a corridor, past a metal door. Another
      stairs, another corridor, another metal door. It was taking all of
      Harry's self-control to keep walking, to not ask to stay just a
      little bit longer, give the poor prisoners in there some
      Patronus-time, but he knew it would be foolish, the guards would
      come soon enough. And if they paused, would he ever be able to
      persuade himself to leave?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Another stairs. Ahead of them, the metal door clicked open. The
      Patronus led them past empty cells, to the leftmost one. Now,
      Dumbledore started his enchantments to break out the wall and trick
      the wards into not noticing this. "Take your broomsticks," he
      warned the two of them, and Harry did. He guessed that, somewhere
      near him, the invisible Professor McGonagall was doing the
      same.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey," he whispered. "Where are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A soft hand touched his head. He gently grabbed the arm, then
      pushed the bar of chocolate into it. He and the Headmaster had both
      taken one bar for themselves, for they had had to walk through
      Azkaban unprotected and didn't know for how long, but Harry had
      hardly nibbled his. He could easily stand the Dementors' proximity;
      he wasn't afraid anymore, he was ready to fight Death in all its
      forms. But Professor McGonagall would probably have a harder time.
      As they didn't want to be seen, they couldn't exactly keep the
      Patronus up while flying through the hole in the wall and away from
      Azkaban. It was only a brief exposure, and she should be able to
      handle it – it was very unlikely that she was as vulnerable as
      Professor Quirrell had been, especially since she could cast a
      Patronus in the first place – but it would still be
      <em class="calibre8">unpleasant</em> for her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is done." The Headmaster's whisper. "Cancel your Patronus,
      and both of you mount your broomsticks." He spoke another
      enchantment, then, to control both brooms. As neither Harry nor
      McGonagall could see each other or the Headmaster (and only the
      occasional flash of fire from a corner of their eyes), but
      <em class="calibre8">he</em> could see <em class="calibre8">them</em> (since he apparently could see
      through Disillusioning), the old wizard would steer them. There was
      a lot of trust implied in giving over full control, but considering
      the old man's power and position, not to mention his knowledge of
      and involvement in the plan so far, he already got to decide
      whether Harry lived or died. Harry obeyed without argument.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wall opened like a door, and Harry was lifted into the air
      and carried outside. Down below, he saw the pit full of Dementors,
      squirming, and he felt their fear swirling around him, trying to
      engulf him, but he pushed those feelings away. Instead, he let
      himself be filled by a rush of hatred at the vile creatures.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then the door had closed behind them and become part of the
      wall again. Harry was lifted up into the air, an invisible point of
      consciousness, until the building was far below them. Suddenly he
      rushed forward, over the sea, away from the fortress. Looking
      behind, there were no pursuers. Nobody had noticed their presence,
      or their departure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After a long time, the broom slowed down, and then stopped in
      mid-air. A hand grabbed Harry's left shoulder. "Minerva, take a
      hold of Harry, he is to your left." Another hand grabbed his right
      arm. And then he <em class="calibre8">burned</em> <em class="calibre8">up</em>, and suddenly he found
      himself in Professor McGonagall's office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With four trickling sounds, the four of them were visible again.
      Dumbledore plunged a hand into his robes, and took out a
      Time-Turner. He threw the chain over Professor McGonagall's head,
      and pointed his wand at Harry. There was a click.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I opened your shell. Five turns should do it." Then the old
      wizard turned his Time-Turner around, and both he and Professor
      McGonagall disappeared.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">You can do that?!</em> Harry was briefly baffled. But he
      wasn't allowed to tell anyone about the Time-Turner anyway, and the
      chain on his wasn't as long. He took it out and spun the hourglass
      five times. And there he was with the two Professors and the
      phoenix again, in the same office.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It is now about fifteen minutes after we left," the old wizard
      said. "Be seen, Minerva. Then go to bed. It has been an exhausting
      day." The witch nodded, and walked towards the door. Then the old
      wizard took Harry by the arm, and they burned out and reappeared in
      the Headmaster's office. The Headmaster sank down in his chair.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Congratulations, Harry. Your plan worked perfectly. I had not
      expected that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nor I," Harry confessed. "I usually try to be properly
      pessimistic when planning, but somehow <em class="calibre8">nothing</em> went wrong
      this time. It's almost scary how everything went according to plan.
      We didn't even need any of the fallbacks! Although –" he added as
      an afterthought, "it might still go wrong. Or might already have
      gone wrong. It all depends on Hermione not getting caught now."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But even if so, none of us are obviously involved. You might be
      <em class="calibre8">implicated</em>, but you are still the scion of a Noble House,
      and you will not be convicted without more solid proof. I will
      arrange the alternative cloak and perform the enchantments to make
      it feel the way I memory-charmed Miss Granger to remember." He
      sighed, then. "I am not pleased with the price of sacrificing your
      cloak if she is caught, Harry. It is a priceless artifact. And even
      though its magic might lightly compel those around it to return it
      to its owner, whether that is feasible when it's in the clutches of
      the Ministry is a rather different matter. But then, she might not
      be caught; that <em class="calibre8">is</em> the idea after all."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry nodded. Besides, if she was caught, <em class="calibre8">Hermione</em>
      would most likely be lost unless there was already a plan in motion
      to get her out really soon thereafter, as they probably couldn't
      get away with doing this a second time. "This is the price of not
      having her escape."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"True," the old wizard nodded, "I am impressed, to be honest.
      You could have simply walked her out of there. I would not have
      believed it possible."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Azkaban's protections really aren't that great," Harry
      shrugged. "It's just the Dementors, and I'm not afraid of
      <em class="calibre8">them</em>. I could have destroyed them all from where we left
      through the wall."</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Caw!"</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cry pierced his heart. Dumbledore, too, flinched.
      Apparently, he had removed the spell of silence from his companion,
      who had a very obvious, blatant question, that somehow had not
      occurred to Harry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">Why didn't you?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tears fell on Harry's cheeks as the satisfaction at a successful
      mission was instantly replaced by the crystal-clear knowledge of
      what he had left behind. How could he have forgotten?
      <em class="calibre8">Hermione</em> might be relatively safe, but all the other
      prisoners were still there, were still suffering, and he had
      <em class="calibre8">been</em> to Azkaban, had hovered right over the pit, he could
      have ended the place right there and then, and he <em class="calibre8">hadn't</em>,
      he hadn't even <em class="calibre8">considered</em> doing it...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry..." the old wizard's voice was gentle, understanding.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm sorry," Harry told Fawkes desperately. "I'm <em class="calibre8">sorry</em>,
      I should have thought of it, should have done something, should
      have saved them, and I didn't, and I'm so, so, sorry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You have saved one person tonight, Harry. That is more than we
      could have hoped for."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's not enough," Harry sniffled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dumbledore sighed sadly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I understand all too well how you feel... It is the burden of
      the phoenix. Fawkes, there will always be more people to save. But
      regardless of what could have been, we have saved <em class="calibre8">one</em>
      person tonight. One innocent child who will not have her soul
      marred by Dementors, or be subject to the whims of the Aurors. One
      more life, Fawkes. Will you not be content?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre8">"Caw."</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">It sounded better, there was a note of approval. But it wasn't
      enough. Harry had taken up the task, had sworn to himself that he
      would destroy Azkaban, and when faced once more with his ancient
      enemy, he had closed his eyes, passed all those doors without it
      even occurring to him that he could do something right there and
      then...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">In a blur of tears, he walked to the door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Harry..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If you don't mind, I would like to be alone now,
      Headmaster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The old wizard bowed his head, and the spiraling stairs started
      turning as Harry stepped onto them.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
