<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 2: Falling or Flying</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="7. HPMoR: The Missing (but Necessary) Chapters"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s2" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 2: Falling or Flying</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">Chapter 25 act 3 3/4: Falling or Flying</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Monday morning, Harry walked toward the Great Hall thinking
      about experiments he needed to perform. Conservation of energy is
      such an important law in physics; it has to hold for magic too. If
      he could calculate the energy mysteriously produced by different
      spells, maybe it correlates with the magical effort expended by
      those spells. Maybe he could quantify magical energy; measure how
      much he and others held. From there he could calculate the magical
      power a wizard absorbed from the environment. If it were a constant
      in a given location, it could be used to measure the local ambient
      magical field strength-</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this set of experiments had a flaw much like his first set:
      a beautiful plan of research based on a premise he had not yet
      tested, much less verified. He didn't intend to make that mistake
      twice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...looking forward to Hogsmeade. I need a break from..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Most students talk about such trivial, boring things. It's a
      good thing he met Hermione when he did, despite how annoying she
      could be.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Hermione- Maybe Hermione was a poor choice of test subject for
      his initial magical experiments, due to her strong belief in the
      correctness of the information in books. It shouldn't have mattered
      because she hadn't known the spells beforehand, but that was
      another assumption. Maybe the results would be different for
      someone who believed intent was the only important part of casting
      magic. Perhaps he should ask her to conduct a similar set of
      experiments around a different set of spells with himself as the
      test subject. Or maybe Draco would be interested...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...finished your transfiguration homework yet? I don't get what
      Prof..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Transfiguration. That's such a fascinating area of magic. He
      should really design a set of experiments to test its true
      abilities and limitations. Clearly, people could transfigure things
      without knowing every detail of what they were making. Could he
      transfigure something no one had made before (first priority:
      nanofactory)? More disturbingly, where was the intelligence that
      knew the details the wizard did not? What 'remembered' the original
      form and un-transfigured objects?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...know you like Cedric. You should talk to..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">More pointless student conversations. So distracting. Anyway,
      hidden intelligences... maybe he should return to experimenting
      with his pouch; he had never come to a firm conclusion about how it
      worked, but it seemed to have at least some kind of rudimentary
      intelligence running it. Working with artificial intelligence could
      be very dangerous, and Harry doubted wizards had thought deeply
      about those ramifications. It could be important to quickly
      determine how far they had gotten.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"...going to jump off the tower, we should take feather-falling
      potions first..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe he'd start by listing magical objects, spells, etc. that
      required a hidden, non-trivial intelligence to- Wait, what?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry stopped and walked backward to where Dean Thomas and
      Seamus Finnegan where talking at the Gryffindor table. "...get
      feather-falling potion from Hogsmeade for us?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Excuse me", Harry began, "I thought I overheard a more
      interesting conversation than normal. You guys planning something
      fun?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Since when are you interested in anything besides reading and
      homework?", Dean asked. "You've never wanted to play anything
      before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe he's planning to go to McGonagall or Sprout?", Seamus
      added. "Maybe he's hoping he can win some more precious house
      points."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Okay, he understood the homework comment, but when had he gotten
      a reputation as a snitch? The Gryffindors had all loved Harry after
      his first class with Snape. That sure hadn't lasted long.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry sighed. "Like I said, it sounded interesting. Something
      about maybe wanting feather-falling potion before jumping off a
      tower. That implies you intend to fly off the tower somehow, but
      want a safety in case something goes wrong. Maybe you found a spell
      for enchanting flying brooms? No, we fly every week anyway and you
      wouldn't need the tower." Harry thought for a moment while they
      waited, bemused. He continued, "You're not really going to fly,
      just fall. And primarily intend to use something besides the
      potion. I don't expect wizards would have many things like that
      when there are already flying brooms and feather-falling potions.
      But there are muggle things, like bungee cords, parachutes, and
      gliders." He saw surprise in their expressions, "gliders it is
      then. I'm in."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, I was telling Seamus about muggle technology. He didn't
      believe they can fly. So we're going to try to transfigure a
      hang-glider."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'm still not convinced muggles can fly. So potions or no
      potions, you're going first."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, it sounds like a lot of fun. I'm totally in", Harry
      repeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And why, exactly should we let you tag along?", Seamus
      smirked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"One, I have <em class="calibre7">feather-falling potion</em> already", Harry
      pulled a vial out of his pouch and gestured with it as he
      continued. "Two, I know some third years who would probably be
      willing to help with the transfiguration. That would be a really
      big job for first years. And three, I have an aerodynamics book
      that, while it's mostly about airplane design, I'm pretty sure has
      a detailed picture of a hang-glider. And the equations to figure
      out some of the details." Harry paused. "You know what, I don't
      know why I should let you guys tag along with me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Let's not make any quick decisions", Dean said. "You've made
      some good points, but do you really think you can transfigure
      something that works right from just a picture in a book? I think
      we can work together on this."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Playing with muggle flying machines?" Terry Boot asked, having
      heard a most of the conversation while standing nearby. "I expect
      crazy things like that from Gryffindors but from you... never
      mind."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, then you're not invited", Dean said. He then stuck out
      his tongue at Terry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Terry rolled his eyes and waved dismissively, "Like I would
      trust a muggle flying machine. And why? They can't be as good as
      brooms, so what's the point?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry's mind marked this subject as boring and asked, "I've been
      wondering; how exactly does feather-falling potion work? What does
      it do? Maybe we should do a few experiments..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're not worried about what will happen to the universe this
      time, Harry?", Terry smirked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How would a falling potion affect the universe, Terry? That's
      just silly", Harry answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean and Seamus glanced at each other and frowned. "What do you
      mean, experiment?" asked Seamus.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Does it reduce your terminal velocity or your acceleration or
      both? When does it start doing that? What happens if you take half
      a dose? We weigh less than the average adults these potions are
      intended for. Do children fall more slowly or can we fall over a
      longer distance? How far can you use it to fall anyway? And how
      long will it still work after you take one: If I'd taken one during
      the first week, and hadn't fallen until now, would it still protect
      me?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, they're good for about 30 minutes. I don't think there's a
      distance limit: I think you can fall for the whole 30 minutes if
      you start high enough. I don't know if anyone's done it though. I
      don't know about children; why would weight matter?" Seamus
      answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"To put it simply, it takes less effort to hold up light things
      than heavy things; that's what weight means. I haven't figured out
      the pattern for when size and weight matter to magic, so we should
      test this. Maybe give a dose to a small animal and drop it from a
      broom..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hey, Kevin, mind if we give your cat a feather-falling potion",
      Dean called excitedly, snatching the potion vial from Harry and
      running a short distance over to Kevin Entwhistle. "We want to
      check something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That seems like a waste", Kevin responded. "Cats can already
      turn and land safely when they fall from most heights." His eyes
      widened as he continued, "unless you think the combination will
      make a cat fall up, roll upside-down, then fall down, then turn
      right-side-up again, repeating until it spins in place faster and
      faster."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That sound like something muggles say about buttered toast
      attached to a cat's back", Harry interjected. "But it's a joke; the
      universe doesn't really work that way. Magic doesn't always respect
      common sense, but still... Never mind, I don't know what will
      happen; that's the point of testing things." That was all the
      encouragement Dean needed to empty the vial of feather-fall potion
      into the saucer of milk Kevin had prepared for his cat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After it finished drinking a moment later, Kevin picked up the
      cat, then lowered his arms slowly. The cat did not follow. "Huh",
      said multiple students.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry looked at the cat, hovering a little over a meter off the
      ground, and started giggling uncontrollably, having thought of a
      fun way to renew his desired reputation, at least temporarily. The
      others looked on in confusion as Harry picked up a napkin, shook it
      open, and touched his wand to it. A few seconds later, he had a
      blue cat collar attached to a cat-sized red cape. He put the collar
      (which closed magnetically rather than using a physical latch;
      Harry had been planning to write his next transfiguration essay
      about the application of Topology to transfiguration safety) on the
      cat and then pushed it forward. The cat sailed along the Gryffindor
      table with a cape billowing behind it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You still think that was a waste of a potion?", Dean asked
      Kevin. Kevin shook his head without looking away from the cat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I so need to get a cape", Lavender announced to no one in
      particular.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When and why would you wear a cape. That's just dumb", Parvati
      said firmly. Lavender just gave her an annoyed look before turning
      to watch the cat again.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After the cat flew for a few seconds, it panicked and twisted in
      the air such that it was flying feet-first. It spread out its body,
      quickly slowing down and dropping. When it neared the floor, it
      turned itself right-side-up and tried to run away. Unfortunately,
      during this attempt, it kicked off of the floor and shot across the
      room, quickly gaining altitude and loudly expressing its
      displeasure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the others were distracted watching the cat, Terry quietly
      backed away, sat at the Ravenclaw table, and loaded a plate with
      food, intending to pretend he had been there the whole time.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cat turned again in time to safely 'land' and rebound off of
      a wall. It stopped yowling after it leveled out and hovered 10
      meters above the ground. It shook its head then licked itself for a
      moment.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We have to do something about this", Fred told George.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">George nodded. "He's making us look bad. We have to do something
      really big."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And soon", Fred concluded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The cat was now staring intently at a nearby area of the
      Slytherin table, hanging at an odd angle and looking ready to
      pounce. Suddenly, it dove toward the table and grabbed a steak off
      of Draco's plate with its mouth. Without stopping, it took a few
      strides and jumped, overturning several plates and flying away. It
      landed on the opposite wall a moment later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Draco slowly lowered his face into his hands, "Being friends
      with Harry can't be worth it. Can it?", he asked quietly.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You'd think the scion of the great house of Malfoy would find
      friendship with the Boy-Who-Lived-And-Does-Weird-Things more
      valuable than some easily-replaced food", Daphne whispered to
      Tracey, rolling her eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Draco knows that", Tracey replied. "But he doesn't know that we
      know that. He's not an idiot. But he thinks everyone else is. He's
      not good at, um, modeling the way other people think. Or
      something."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's something I overheard Harry say. I'm almost sure it
      applies here", Tracey answered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You <em class="calibre7">overhear</em> a lot of what Harry says, don't you?",
      Daphne asked, amused.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Tracey attempted to act offended before they paused to watch as
      the cat dropped the steak, dove and caught it in midair, holding it
      between its forepaws and biting it while slowly drifting,
      upside-down, toward the center of the hall.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I have a plan", Tracey said, quietly and ominously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Daphne shook her head, "I'm going to regret asking. What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"When Professor Quirrell's extracurricular activities start up,
      I'm asking him to put me on Harry's team. We'll spend lots of time
      together then."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yeah, that's not going to happen, you'll be on Draco's team
      with all the other Slytherins."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You know there won't be as many Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs
      signed up as Slytherins and Gryffindors, so there'll be a Slytherin
      team led by Draco, a Gryffindor team led by someone, a Slytherclaw
      team led by Harry, and a Gryffinpuff team probably led by Susan.
      And you know how much Professor Quirrell likes Harry, so everyone
      who's enthusiastic about working with Harry will be on Harry's
      team."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You might be right", Daphne said hesitantly. "I wonder if
      Professor Quirrell will let me join Susan's team. I don't think I
      could stand to work for Draco or Harry."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Slytherins and Hufflepuffs working together? Daphne, that's
      just silly."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">While the students watched the cat's antics, Professor
      McGonagall walked toward the Gryffindor table. Dean noticed her
      first and quietly nudged Harry. As Harry turned, she asked, "Mr.
      Potter, are you responsible for this?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry decided that he was at least 60% responsible for
      everything that had happened, but that there was no point to
      implicating anyone else. He knew his best option for avoiding
      detentions and preserving house points would be to lose quickly,
      but there were more important things than mere house points. "Yes;
      I've discovered what happens when a cat takes a feather-falling
      potion. I assume you'd like to turn into a cat and try it? It looks
      really fun."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Seamus and Dean glanced at each other in surprise. McGonagall
      snapped, "No, Mr. Potter. I want you to resolve this situation,
      immediately."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"It's okay if you want to try it; that's what I'd be doing right
      now if I could turn into a cat. And you shouldn't worry about what
      the other professors will think. People are happier when they do
      fun things without worrying about being judged for them. There's a
      study-"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you for your opinion of my mental health, Mr. Potter",
      she said sarcastically. "Restrain the cat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged mentally and raised his wand. "Wingardium
      leviosa." He caught the cat and directed it to Kevin, who reached
      out and held it. "Finite incantatem." Kevin moved his arms to
      support the cat's restored weight as the napkin slipped off its
      back to the floor.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Twenty house points from Ravenclaw, and you'll be serving a
      detention with me after your last class today, Mr. Potter. Bring
      your textbooks."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oh, good. I've been meaning to ask you some questions about
      animagus stuff. This will give me a good opportunity."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She turned and walked away quickly, apparently pretending not to
      have heard. Harry thought he caught her lips twitch upward as she
      turned, but couldn't be sure.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thanks for covering for us; you're a real Gryffindor, Harry",
      Dean announced. They either missed or decided to ignore Harry's
      visible shudder.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You seem much less upset than I would have thought. Getting in
      trouble and losing house points", Seamus added.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged, "when someone doesn't act the way you expect,
      it's evidence that your mental model of them is incomplete or
      incorrect."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">They briefly looked confused, and Harry added "That was totally
      worth it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Dean commented, "I can't believe she gave you a detention for
      that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Harry shrugged again, "I don't really mind; I have to do
      homework some time. And Hogwarts is still better about things like
      that than my last school."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"My last teacher had a rule: if something made me giggle for
      longer than fifteen seconds, I was supposed to assume there was a
      rule against it. Actually, any time I laughed, she usually made me
      stand in the corner and not touch anything for about fifteen
      minutes. Luckily the teachers here haven't implemented such an
      unpleasant and anti-intellectual policy. So, hang-gliding this
      weekend?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">r/HPMOR/comments/2dbydo/false_memories_spoliers_27/cjpkh8r</p>
      <p class="calibre6">EY may not have had anything specific in mind, but it's still
      worth thinking about. He explained it to the Weasleys, so it was
      unlikely to involve the time-turner or invisibility cloak. He
      hadn't discovered partial transfiguration or first cast a patronus
      yet. That leaves a handful of options:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">he applied something he learned in class</p>
      <p class="calibre6">he applied something he read while working with Hermione</p>
      <p class="calibre6">it involved one of the magic items in his inventory (comed-tea,
      gillyweed, feather-falling potion)</p>
      <p class="calibre6">I'm going to go with the feather-falling potion; cats basically
      already have that ability, so the potion probably gives them the
      ability to glide for a few minutes off of a running jump or
      something. Hovering a small cat toy (or maybe releasing the
      quidditch-squito) would result in something approaching a prank
      (picture a feline seeker doing loops and barrel rolls around the
      great hall for no apparent reason).</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"How would a falling potion affect the universe, Terry? That's
      just silly", Harry answered, mentally adding, it's not like we're
      playing with time machines or anything. He continued, "I could tell
      you about the last time, but you'd have to be obliviated
      afterwards. That would make the whole thing moot, because then
      you'd be confused again. So rationally, so should just skip ahead
      and pretend we've already done that."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">previous working titles: Entwhistle's Cat (Better than
      Quidditch) (Falling or Flying)</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
