<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>1. Squibgineering - Squibgineering Chapter 1: Blue Tigers, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="1. Squibgineering"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Blue Tigers</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">[This is a collection of very short stories set in the Harry
      Potter and the Methods of Rationality universe.]</p>
      <p class="calibre6">2 September 2012</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amy Anne Bamford hugged the Tome of Elementary Rationality to
      her chest like a shield. It was a poor shield, even for her slight
      11-year-old frame, although it was cruelly large for a first-year
      textbook. But the pressure on her butterfly-filled stomach was
      comforting, even if the weight did make her arms ache.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She continued tentatively down the stairs, feeling a chill as
      strange figures passed her, brushing against her as she went. She
      would have said the feeling was like being passed by ghosts, except
      that she had actually been passed by a ghost on her way to
      breakfast, and had to admit that its icy chill had been entirely
      unlike the merely human anxiety that tugged at her sternum as the
      other students passed her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emily squeezed the book harder, and felt the unfamiliar texture
      of the newly-blue cuff of her newly-bought robes against her wrist,
      and the embossed leather of the tome on her fingers. The logician,
      from all accounts, sounded horrid. She turned a corner and saw the
      gate before her. Well, technically it was a door.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But, to be fair, it was a massive door, with an arched top, and
      made of ancient and implacable, brooding timber, thick as a
      fencepost, with a wrought-iron ring for a handle. A placard above
      the door, written in an ancient and foreign script Amy did not
      recognize, presumably began "Abandon all hope..." Amy ducked her
      head and entered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She found a desk, every bit as hard and uncomfortable as the
      desk she had occupied at Bransum Primary School last year, but made
      from the same wood as the portal gate, er, door, rather than shiny
      metal and hard plastic. About two thirds of the way to the back of
      the classroom, just far enough forward to avoid suspicion of being
      a miscreant, but far enough back to minimize attention. How could
      she have ever imagined that after the lazy summer months she would
      find herself in Magical Britain, a place she hadn't even dreamed
      could exist, and that it would be so full of strange and
      inscrutable powers?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">After enough of an interval for her to become slightly bored,
      but just at the peak where the boredom adds to the anxiety and does
      not yet diminish it, the logician's entourage arrived.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">First was the sense of dread, triggered as the heavy adult
      footsteps first registered in Amy's subconscious. Then the
      progressive hush of students falling silent as the chattier ones
      noticed, and finally the logician's robes passed into Amy's field
      of view.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the professor turned, curly locks framed a lightly wrinkled
      face that conveyed age, and worry and care, and more than a note of
      bitterness. "I am Perspicacia Foundry, the potionmistress at
      Hogwarts. I have been," the slightest of pause<em class="calibre7">s</em><em class="calibre7">,
      "</em><em class="calibre7">selected</em> to teach rationality to first year
      students. <em class="calibre7">Luminus</em><em class="calibre7">abscondance</em>." She tapped her
      wand perfunctorily right, left, right. Two students, one slightly
      in front and to the left of Amy, and one directly in front, began
      to glow red. Names appeared in ornate text above their heads:
      Filbert Frink, and Eugenia Paltry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You two are not enrolled in this session. Out." Their cheeks
      grew red in embarassment, further intensifying the effect, and they
      hastily gathered their books and departed, looking at the floor.
      Filbert sniffed and began running, hoping to gain the exit before
      the tears began to fall, and only succeeding in calling more
      attention to himself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"There will be no running in rationality class. Two points
      from," a pause, a tiny, complicated twitch of the wand, and the
      glows changed from red to yellow and scarlet. "Hufflepuff." Another
      twitch, and "-2 points" appeared in the yellow title above "Filbert
      Frank." Amy sank low in her seat, blushing in sympathetic
      shame.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"In this class we will study rationality, as mandated in the
      year Two Thousand Two by the Ministry of Bayes. Since they did not
      see fit to endow Hogwarts with a professorship to fill that role,
      the duty has fallen to me." Her voice was clipped, precise, as she
      paced in measured strides across the front of the classroom,
      surveying the diminutive first-year wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Per the mandate, we shall study..." another wordless movement
      of the wand, and text appeared in the air before Professor Foundry,
      too small for Amy to read. The professor continued,
      "...mathemagics, classical machinations, sadistics, ethical
      behavior and rationality. Error will not be tolerated, and fallacy
      will be severely punished."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"We will begin with mathemagics. Who can tell us why we study
      mathemagics? Yes, Miss Weasely."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">A fair-skinned, freckled and bespectacled girl lowered her hand
      and spoke. "The leaders of Chaos Legion used it in the Battle of
      Hogwarts. It's one of the sacred muggle technomancies. Father says
      it's so powerful that only a few of the muggle nobility can use
      it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Correct. And yet we will learn it in this classroom.
      <em class="calibre7">Alonzo</em><em class="calibre7">Entscheidungs</em>." A twitch of the Professor's
      wand, and pale blue flash above each desk startled Amy. She jumped
      and emitted a small "eep!" as a rather harmless looking, worn
      wooden box dropped onto the desk where her right elbow had been
      supporting her chin. It had symbols carved in it on all sides and
      at all angles, and a rectangular protrusion of red glass with
      glowing, ornamented text reading, enigmatically, "nil".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is Lamda's Calculator, brought to us by Lord Potter in the
      year two thousand four. It allows even first-year students to
      harness wild mathemagic energy and complete the ancient riddles
      that block access to the higher ranks, although it is unlikely that
      any of you will ever reach them. Outside of class, until you learn
      the <em class="calibre7">Alonzo</em> charm, you may tap the symbol on the inside
      cover of your textbooks with your wands to summon the Calculator to
      complete your assignments."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Now children, draw your wands and do precisely as I do. Failure
      will result in the automatic deduction of house points."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Foundry made a sweeping gesture with both hands,
      starting palms down above her Calculator and ending vertically
      toward the center of the front wall of the classroom, and a large,
      ethereal replica of her Lamda Calculator appeared in the air behind
      and above her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Precise and deliberate, she tapped a number 8 near the glass
      display on her desk, as a giant ethereal wand did the same on the
      giant replica. Amy took her wand (9½" Palm with a silver core) and
      tapped the number on her Calculator. It annoyed her that her hand
      trembled, and she told herself that there shouldn't be anything
      frightening about tapping a button on a wooden calculator with a
      wooden stick. Then it annoyed her to realize that this was the
      first time she had actually been allowed to use her wand, and she
      certainly hoped magic wands were useful for more than pushing
      buttons. As she tapped it, the red "nil" on the glass disappeared,
      and was replaced by the word "oct" in green, quickly growing fatter
      and fading away quickly, to be replaced again by "nil", also
      green.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Even more annoyingly, and yet unsurprisingly, two of the
      students in the classroom had apparently failed in their first task
      as wizards, and "-1" now hung in green and red over their heads,
      respectively, below a larger "!". Professor Foundry peered
      peevishly at them until they tapped the appropriate symbol, and the
      "!" disappeared. Foundry looked to the ceiling briefly, exhaled
      slightly, then recomposed herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Can anyone tell us what that symbol does?" Several hands went
      up, including Amy's, even as the thought occurred: Wait, do wizards
      really not know what an 8 is?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes, Mr. ..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Potts, ma'm. It looks like an 8, but as it's the one at the
      top, not the one by the 7, it really means a sideways 8, which
      means infinity. It's about the ancient power of mathemagic to
      create wealth from nothing."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amy's train of thought wobbled slightly at the unexpected bump
      in the tracks. Wealth from nothing? She liked math, but had never
      seen it create wealth. Well, now that she thought about it
      metaphorically, it...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thank you Mister Potts. That is correct. And as this is
      rationality class, we will prove the correctness of the answer with
      an example. Follow me, children, and we shall find the mathemagical
      sum of 4 and 4."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Foundry tapped the "4" button, and a green "4"
      replaced "nil" on the display. She then whisked her wand right to
      left over the Calculator, and the "4" moved about a centimeter
      behind the glass, becoming slightly out of focus. She paused while
      the students imitated, and one of the students with a "-1" ended up
      with a "-2" above his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the slowpokes caught up, she repeated the two gestures, and
      the original 4 faded back another centimeter, to be replaced by the
      second one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Finally she tapped an ornate "+" symbol, and the "+" appeared on
      the display, only to merge with the two 4's as they moved forward,
      and the whole mass grew and split sideways until it formed the
      number "10".</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Thus we see, children, the first and most elementary mystery of
      mathemagics. Four plus four, when aided by magic, need not be
      constrained to eight, but has grown before our eyes by a full
      twenty-five percent."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Professor Foundry turned and faced the class, folded her right
      arm toward her so that the hilt of her wand rested on her shoulder,
      and thrust her hand forward as if she were throwing a dart at a
      dartboard. A fountain of parchment airplanes materialized from the
      tip and sailed around the classroom, unfolding themselves one per
      desk without a crease.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"This is your homework. You will complete the following
      exercises before the next class period or you will lose house
      points. We will do the first ten problems together."...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Later, in the Ravenclaw common room, Amy once again smoothed the
      parchment with her hands, although it had remained as perfectly
      flat as when it had unfolded itself upon her desk. The futility of
      even smoothing her worksheet made it harder to contain the
      frustration that built in her throat and, given much more
      provocation, would start her eyes watering. She stood up and paced
      away from the table, trying to think of a pretense for where she
      was going, in case anyone was watching. Someone was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Valerie Anderton, a fifth year witch, was reading a paperback
      novel, comfortably wedged into the corner of an enormous red velvet
      couch, surrounded by pillows. Amy had noticed the garish cover art
      that made it obviously a sci-fi novel, and had been dying to ask
      about it, but had been too overwhelmed by the first day of classes
      and their difference in age to say anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Valerie was looking over her wire-rimmed glasses at Amy, like an
      actor trying to look wise while playing a professor. "You seem to
      be having difficulty," she said mildly, glancing at the Lamda
      Calculator on the ancient table.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope, just..." and here Amy's brain once again betrayed her,
      staying obstinately silent as she groped for an excuse. The silence
      lengthened beyond "looking for the right word", sailed right past
      "polite fiction", and mercilessly, unambiguously landed on "so
      frustrated I'm about to cry but I don't want to admit it
      <em class="calibre7">because</em><em class="calibre7">it</em><em class="calibre7">'</em><em class="calibre7">s</em><em class="calibre7">not</em><em class="calibre7">even</em><em class="calibre7">worth</em><em class="calibre7">crying</em><em class="calibre7">about</em><em class="calibre7">!</em>"
      Amy managed to swallow, barely.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Valerie broke the silence, mercifully. "You grew up with
      muggles, I take it?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh no, this was going to be far worse. Amy managed the slightest
      of nods.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Valerie saw Amy's apprehension at the question and continued
      quickly, "Then you should be aware that we can only be friends if
      you find Arithmancy completely and utterly absurd."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">This startled Amy enough that she exhaled in a half laugh, half
      sob. All she could manage was "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Seriously, seven plus two equals eleven?" Valerie smiled.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amy's brain, so recently silent, now helpfully arranged at least
      six sentences for her to say simultaneously, ranging from "I
      thought I was crazy!" to "I know!" and "What am I even doing at
      Hogwarts?" Realizing the futility, she merely nodded more
      vigorously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Valerie said nothing, giving Amy a chance to collect her wits.
      She collapsed at the other end of the couch from Valerie's den and
      put her head in her hands. Finally she said, her voice minutely
      wavering, "It's just so <em class="calibre7">wrong</em>, you know? I mean, I can
      handle the magic food and flying books and even the ghosts. But
      math shouldn't be like that! I mean, I even read a story where
      things don't add up the way they should, and it was written by a
      mathematician, and the whole point was how bizarre and foreign that
      is. Maybe magic can make oranges out of thin air, but four plus
      four is still eight! Maybe you end up with four plus four plus two
      and you get ten, because somebody conjured up the two extra ones.
      But it's still four plus four plus two!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Did they give you the spiel about how the magic gives you
      extra?", Valerie asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Yes! And it's just so... wrong! It feels like lying. To the
      universe or something!" Amy paused, then checked herself. "But I
      guess I'm just being..."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Nope! Don't even start with that. Math is math, and magic
      doesn't change that. Let me see your textbook."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amy pried herself out of the well of soft cushion and pulled the
      heavy tome from the table, a little more harshly than she would
      have done for an <em class="calibre7">honest</em> textbook. She timidly thrust it
      onto the cushion next to Valerie, still nervous about approaching
      the older student too closely, and retreated to the exact spot
      where she had been at the end of the couch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Valerie produced her wand and leviosa'd the book open before
      her, flipping through the pages as if inspecting a tardy
      schoolchild's uniform. "Wow, this is several inches thicker than
      the edition I had. They just keep adding drivel to it." She waved
      her wand dramatically and pretentiously read aloud, "Lambda
      calculations are a fun and exciting privilege of the magical world!
      Transcending mere technology, the supernumeracy of mathemagics,"
      and here on the parchment was an <em class="calibre7">entirely</em>gratuitous
      bulleted list. Valerie continued reading:</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Allows the economy of Magical Britain to grow every year!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* Explains how we can conjure water and light from
      nothingness!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">* And brings us ever closer to understanding the deep mysteries
      of the Income Tax!</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amy couldn't see it from where she sat, but the attractive young
      wizards playing an improbably exuberant game of Wizard Chess in the
      stock photo on the textbook page, upon hearing Valerie's dramatic
      reading, stood up and applauded enthusiastically.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Valerie glanced down disapprovingly at them and twitched her
      wand. The book snapped shut and sailed across the room, and just
      before crashing into the wall, righted itself and slinked
      penitently back to the table where Amy's homework lay.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Well, that's enough of that. Come on, let's go to the library
      and find the first edition of the Tome of Elementary Rationality.
      The one with assignments in Python." Valerie paused, "Er, that's
      not what you think. Or maybe it is."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Amy cocked her head, mouth open, but said nothing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Valerie continued, lunging forward to escape the cushions.
      "Plus, I have some bad news." Valerie's novel disappeared into her
      mokeskin and she strode toward the door. Amy followed, still off
      balance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Four plus four really does equal ten. But not the way they told
      you."</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
