<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>1. Squibgineering - Squibgineering Chapter 4: Emily, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="1. Squibgineering"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s4" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 4: Emily</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">
      <p class="calibre6">3 July 2011</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emily stopped twiddling the zinc-coated hex-cap 2 inch 1/4"-20
      bolt between her fingers and started unconsciously counting to 31
      with her left hand, as her eyes darted across the screen. Her
      fingers tapped the time-stained writing desk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Thumb. Index. Thumb+index. Middle. Middle+thumb, middle+index,
      middle+index+thumb. 0, 1, 10, 11, 100, 101, 110, 111.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Repeating with ring finger held down, she repeated the pattern,
      still without conscious thought, counting 8-15: 1000, 1001, 1010,
      1011, 1100, 1101, 1110, 1111.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then her pinky came down, touched the portkey, and launched her
      up the stairs.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her mother shot bolt upright in bed and shrieked a perfect fifth
      above Emily's startled yelp. Emily would have found that amusing,
      except that before the thought had time to form, the heat from the
      Chai Tea, scalding her forearm and soaking her shirt, preempted it
      and caused her to swear.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Aaaaauuuuggghhhhdaaammmmm. . ." she began, but before she
      finished her oath, and before the cold knives of adrenaline
      consciously registered in her brain, a thought occurred that
      compounded the animal panic of falling up the stairs with rational,
      human, lucid panic. She dove back down the ragged oak stairs,
      skipping three worn carpet-covered stairs at a time, while her
      mother, even more bewildered than usual, peered after her.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The dividing wall creaked as she swung around the corner of the
      kitchen to the writing desk, and her worst fears were confirmed.
      The tea had soaked not only her backpack, the table and the worn
      carpet, but had violated the Thinkpad. The brand new X120 that her
      manager wouldn't let her buy, that she had painstakingly researched
      for weeks and paid for herself.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She flipped the laptop over and scrabbled at the battery latch,
      jerking out the power cord as she went. The battery clattered to
      the floor and cracked like the breaking of limbs. Trembling, Emily
      set the laptop down teepee-style and allowed herself a face-wall
      before collapsing into the other, non-tea-laden, hard-backed chair,
      utterly defeated. The chair creaked as worn old kitchen chairs do,
      and slid in its joints by at least an inch before finding a tenuous
      equilibrium.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When the trembling had subsided, and the dull throb of the
      post-adrenaline headache was starting to set in, she pulled out her
      phone and dialed a number, anachronistically. "Pradeep, sorry to
      call your cell. I just spilled tea on my laptop, so I'm going to
      miss the video conference. . . Yeah. . . Uh-huh. . . Thanks for
      covering. . . Yeah, the Thinkpad. . . No, warranties suck. I gotta
      go clean it out. See ya."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She put her head in her hands, but almost immediately sat up
      again to begin first aid. Find a cloth. Assess the damage. Most of
      the spill had hit the wrist rests, but the V, B and N keys were
      wet. Only a little in the vents. Could be a lot worse, but keyboard
      spills were never good. She viciously wiped the table and set the
      laptop back on the table harder than she should have, which made
      her wince. Why, why do we hurt the ones we love?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Her arm was really starting to hurt now, and her mind was
      returning to single-threaded, ordered thought. A list began to
      assemble. Change shirt. Fix arm. Head hurts. Wipe up the rest of
      the spill. Find the Sembl. . . the sonic. . . the tool. Dammit, she
      hated that thing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">With her mind preoccupied loathing Farnsworth's Sembler while
      also subconsciously pondering whether she could be said to have No
      Tea, the cloth in her hand reaching toward the spill on the table,
      and her shoulder retreating from her soaked and clammy shirt, she
      segfaulted briefly, stopped, and sighed. One thing at a time.
      Perfunctorily wipe table. Discard cloth. Find new shirt. Start
      changing. Wash arm in cold water. Finish installing shirt. Briefly
      consider aspirin for headache, even more briefly consider magical
      cures. Decide to tough it out. Fix laptop.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Farnsworth's Sembler. Everything that was wrong with magic. Mom
      had fancied herself a tinkerer, and Emily had always been
      fascinated by the Sembler, the one and only tool in the toolbox. At
      two years old she got ahold of it and thoroughly disassembled most
      of the appliances in the house. Walnut handle, tacky steampunk
      brass labels on the two buttons, "DIS" and "ASS". Point and click.
      With it, she turned a discarded fridge and a bathroom mirror into a
      sun-tracking heliostat that could ignite cardboard boxes from 10
      meters. It had won her the 10th grade muggle science fair and a
      scholarship to Carnegie-Mellon, and given her hope that she
      wouldn't always be an outcaste. And at CMU, without the help of the
      Sembler, and Lamda's Calculator, and the Fully Justified Notepad,
      she had failed all the classes in her first quarter.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emily snapped back to the present, and remembered. She opened
      the outer pocket on her backpack and pulled out the small, dusty
      multi-tool with Search Tools printed in friendly letters on the
      side. Someone on her team had decided, quite accurately, that it
      was better team schwag than a t-shirt, and thus, months ago, at the
      team off-site, they had each gotten one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The screwdriver was too big for the tiny black phillips-head
      screws on the back of the laptop, but the knife blade did the
      trick. Well, it didn't really: it chewed the paint off the heads
      and mangled the slots, and probably dulled the knife. But she'd be
      damned if she'd use the Sembler.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Emily flipped the computer back over and gently pulled the
      keyboard loose. She moved to the sink and ran water over the
      infected keys before realizing that she didn't actually remember if
      that was the right thing to do. Whatever. Already done. Get it
      outside to dry off.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Then she turned her attention to the battery. This was worse
      than the keyboard, and she had been avoiding thinking about it. She
      had a USB keyboard she could use if the built-in unit was beyond
      repair. But most laptops won't work without a battery. The battery
      was cracked, internal wires visible. But Emily was pretty sure she
      could fix it with cyanoacrylate, the finger-sticking,
      skin-crackling, plastic-melting watery glue that gets everywhere
      but does not, under any circumstances, break fundamental laws of
      the universe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The urge was to surf. She could sit down with her phone and
      check her email, finish the message she had been reading. But no,
      typing on the phone was too obnoxious, and untyped replies would
      just pile up in her head. Fix the computer first. No, go take a
      walk first, find some glue. Real, non-magical glue.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She walked out of her mom's decrepit 1920's two-story house that
      would make any Halloween proud, where she had spent all her lonely
      childhood years. The April sun was slightly warm on the slightly
      cool breeze of Magical Modesto. Magical Modesto. She cringed
      inwardly. Magical Modesto. Not exactly cosmopolitan. But beautiful
      in April, no denying that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She should never have accepted the portkey. Magic was not a part
      of her world. It had rejected her, and the billions of people in
      the real world who couldn't conjure food and water and transport
      from nothingness.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stop. Stop piling on. She'd had a bad morning. Morning itself
      was evil anyway, hung-over, menacing. Even when it didn't break her
      laptop and stain her shirt. Keep moving. You'll feel better after
      lunch.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The portkey wasn't her fault, anyway. Somebody had to get Mom up
      and down the stairs, keep her from wandering away from the house.
      She had stepped up. The last thing they needed was for Emily to
      hurt her back, or for both of them to take a tumble. Just think of
      it as an elevator. Up the stairs, down the stairs. Nothing wrong
      with that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Except there was. Walking, now that was honest transportation.
      It conserved all laws of physics, known and unknown. She hated the
      stage-hook pull of the portkey, hated not knowing how she got where
      she was going. And hated that it was forever beyond her grasp to
      decide where it would go, while Wizards, who didn't have any more
      inkling, who hadn't worked as hard as she did, who had never had to
      walk 2 miles to CMU in the rain, could decide that.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Deep breaths. Happy, sunshine, see? Almost to the corner, with
      the lamppost that connects to Muggle Modesto, and then another 2
      blocks to the convenience store.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That damn lamppost. Another stupid violation of all the
      inviolable rules she had studied at school, real school.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She had almost gotten away from it, almost gotten it all out of
      her head. She had packed away the magic along with her invisible
      friend in Magic Kindergarten and the stuffed koala she'd cried on
      at home after the kids at school called her a Squib and made her
      backpack invisible only to her, and made her lunch turn into worms
      inside her mouth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stop. Stop piling on. Emily pulled her left hand out of her
      pocket, paused, then pulled the right one out too. Fingers tapping
      her legs, she counted to 15 with both hands. Thumbs. Indexes.
      Thumbs+indexes. 100. 101. 110. 111. 1000. 1001. 1010. 1011. 1100.
      1101. 1110. 1111. Then she counted to a thousand.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
