<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>2. Firenze's Tale - Firenze's Tale, a harry potter fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="2. Firenze's Tale"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s1" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext"><span>It
      is said that once, centuries ago, a great pestilence came to this
      continent. Millions fell dead in its wake, and Wizard and Muggle
      alike found themselves powerless to combat it. In desperation, the
      greatest wizarding families sent a delegation to the centaurs, in
      the hope of discovering a cure. The centaurs agreed to help, for
      the disease had claimed many of their own as well.</span>
      <p class="calibre6">The centaurs are skilled in divining cause and fate, and they
      told what they had discovered: that the Dementors were the source,
      for they were Death embodied, and the plague grew as their numbers
      grew. The humans had not considered this possibility, and they held
      counsel for many hours. Finally they devised a plan, by which the
      two races might accomplish what neither could do alone.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The wizards and witches combined their strength, and produced a
      formless Patronus of unequalled power. The centaur chieftain,
      sacrificing his life to wield that light, leapt into the sky,
      driving the Dementors before him. The few that remained would soon
      be hunted down and corralled by your Ministry, on the island that
      would become known as Azkaban. The plague had been defeated.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But the spell that brought victory exacted a heavy toll, and
      those who had cast it lay dying under the trees. Others of the
      noble houses arrived then, and seeing the still bodies of their
      kin, presumed that the centaurs had killed them. They came against
      us with anger in their hearts, but they were few, and to a man they
      fell. So the secret of the Dementors was again lost to
      wizardkind.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The spirit of the centaur chief, gazing down upon the field of
      battle, was filled with sadness at the death that had occurred
      there, and vowed that the banished Dementors would never cast their
      shadow on the world again. He still watches over us as the stars of
      Sagittarius, the centaur-archer. They shine upon the earth,
      reminding us that Death is not unstoppable, that it can be turned
      back.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And before the centaur, at the spot where he aims his bow, there
      is a tear in the world, a place of death, surrounded by a halo of
      light. It is all that remains of the scourge that once swept over
      this land, all that remains of the vanquished Dementors. It is
      guarded well by the Patronus and the archer, the spirit of wizard
      and centaur, who once worked together against Death.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
