<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2 - Harry Potter and the Natural 20 Chapter 54: SD 1: Decease and Desist, a Harry Potter + Dungeons and Dragons Crossover fanfic</title>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Harry Potter and the Natural 20 pt2"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="MFW"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="EpubPress"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="{$issued}" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content=""/>
    <meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="Unknown"/>
    <link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/>
    <link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
    <div id="s17" class="calibre4"></div>
    <div class="calibre4">
      <h1 class="calibre5">Chapter 1: Decease and Desist</h1>
      <div class="calibre4" id="storytext">

      <p class="calibre6">"<em class="calibre7">Avada Kedavra</em>!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had just long enough to think, <em class="calibre7">oh dear gods I'm going
      to</em> die as his eyes reflexively slammed shut in response to the
      blinding green blast.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo waited for the inevitable.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">This is what you get</em>, he thought to himself. <em class="calibre7">This
      is what you get for splitting the party. None of this would have
      happened if you'd just brought Hermione and Harry and Ron along
      with you, but</em> nooooo<em class="calibre7">, you had to be a</em> hero<em class="calibre7">.</em>
      Of course, it wasn't <em class="calibre7">entirely</em> his fault. Sure, he'd made a
      few mistakes, but perhaps the fact that he'd been possessed by the
      memory of the most evil dark wizard the world had ever known was
      excuse enough. Perhaps.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, the gig was up now. Now that he <em class="calibre7">knew</em> he had
      Voldemort's teenaged spirit living in his noggin, he could take
      steps. Steps like preparing <em class="calibre7">Protection from Evil</em> every
      day, or maybe even steps like checking himself into a prison for
      the time being, where the guards could keep an eye on him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He wondered what Azkaban was like this time of year. Or, really,
      what Azkaban was like at all. He'd only ever heard passing remarks
      to it, usually fearful whispers.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo had been waiting for quite some time before he was struck
      by a rather curious thought:</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Hey</em>. <em class="calibre7">Shouldn't I be dead now? What gives?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Oy!" he said. "Let's get this over with, already!"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the distinct lack of response that clued Milo off to the
      fact that something was awry. Potentially <em class="calibre7">extremely</em>
      awry.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo opened his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ahhhh, crap."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo saw something worse than Voldemort, worse than the
      basilisk, worse than the mad, haunted eyes of Quirrell, worse than
      a Redcap in the forest, worse even than the Mirror of Erised. Okay,
      well maybe not <em class="calibre7">quite</em> worse than the Mirror. But still
      pretty bad.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was the sky.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was a perfectly ordinary sky, as far as skies go. A few
      clouds drifted lazily by, but they were thin and sparse, providing
      little shelter from the sun beating down onto the baked earth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">No, that was wrong. What he was lying on was definitely
      dirt.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But it wasn't remotely Earth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">For one thing, the horizon was wrong. Really, incredibly,
      <em class="calibre7">weirdly</em> wrong. It took him a moment, and an Intelligence
      check, to figure out what exactly was going on there.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When you live your entire life on what is essentially a giant
      ball of rock and water, you get used to a certain convex shape to
      your horizon. You usually don't even notice it, unless you're in an
      enormous prairie or looking out over the ocean. You get used to it,
      and treat it as the next best thing to flat.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But this place <em class="calibre7">was</em> flat. Completely flat. The result
      was an extremely disorienting, almost-concave sort of effect that
      made Milo feel a little nauseated when he looked too closely at
      it.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That alone was a pretty good clue as to Milo's present
      location.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The other thing, the thing that Milo was avoiding looking at,
      was also fairly definitive. It was the only <em class="calibre7">thing</em> of its
      kind in existence.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed and stood up. He was wearing a plain Hogwarts
      uniform, but his magic gear was missing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">Best get this over with</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo turned around to face the truth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind him was the Spire, capital 'S'. It was big on an
      astronomical scale. It was impossible to determine how far away it
      was from him, because the Spire was, near as anyone could figure,
      infinitely tall. This made it somewhat difficult to get any real
      sense of scale. Somewhere near the top—and, yes, somehow the
      infinitely-tall Spire had a 'top'—was Sigil, the City of Doors.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Spire was a lot of things to a lot of people. To explorers,
      it was a waypoint, a sort-of compass direction. To the inhabitants
      of Sigil, it was home. To those who lived on the ground, it was
      That Great Big Eyesore Blocking My Sunrise/Sunset, Dammit.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">To Milo, it was a cosmologically-big nail in his coffin.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The Spire was at the centre of the infinite expanse known as the
      Concordant Domain of the Outlands, the hub of the Great Wheel, the
      fulcrum of the Outer Planes. Surrounding the infinitely-sized disc
      that is the Outlands are the various heavens, hells, and
      in-betweens that make up the Outer Planes, i.e., the afterlifes.
      Afterlives? Whatever.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There were only two ways to get here: powerful magic, and...</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">You can probably guess what the other way is.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo sighed. Which afterlife you wound up in was determined by
      your beliefs, your actions in life, and, primarily, your alignment.
      Clearly, Milo must have screwed something up pretty badly to end up
      here in the very-Neutral Outlands rather than one of the various
      Good-aligned heavens.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo took a good look around. There really wasn't anything in
      view beyond rolling fields of yellowed grass, the occasional dry
      shrub, and, in the distance, some dead-looking mountains.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">When it came down to it, there was really only one place worth
      going here: Sigil, City of Doors. It was said that, in Sigil,
      anything and everything could be a portal to anywhere—and sometimes
      even anywhen—provided you had the proper key. Maybe Milo could find
      a mortal there travelling to his particular Material Plane to get
      word to his old party members. If they could scrounge up enough for
      a <em class="calibre7">True Resurrection</em>, he could be back in action in no
      time. From there, he could get back to Hogwarts... somehow. He'd
      figure that part out, later.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo turned his back on the Spire and walked directly away from
      it, which was the fastest way to get to Sigil, ironically. As you
      walked further from the centre of the Outlands, you
      always—<em class="calibre7">always</em>—encounter a portal town, sooner or later.
      From the portal towns, it was a simple enough matter to reach
      Sigil. So Milo had read, anyway. He'd never actually been here
      before, thankfully.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The trick was to avoid encountering any wandering demons roaming
      a little far from home along the way. Or any roaming amnesiac
      immortals, trying to rediscover their pasts. The Outer Planes could
      be a little weird that way.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo walked on, the hot sun beating down on him as he went. In a
      way, this was nice. Peaceful. It had been quite some time since
      he'd had to cross great distances like this, except, of course, for
      those times he'd had to hike, half-dead, into Hogsmeade.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As the minutes turned into hours, Milo realized something: he
      felt great. No random aches or sores, no burn from the searing hot
      sun, no fatigue or exhaustion. <em class="calibre7">I guess such 'perks' are
      reserved for the living</em>.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">As Milo walked across the cracked dirt, something seemed to loom
      in the distance. Specifically, something loomed <em class="calibre7">ahead</em> of
      him—he still hadn't quite gotten used to what was looming
      <em class="calibre7">behind</em> him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was hard to tell what it was, exactly, but there wasn't a
      whole heck of a lot in this Plane to encounter, so Milo assumed it
      to be a Portal Town of one sort or another. Hopefully one of the
      Good sorts.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It seemed to be miles and miles away, but whenever Milo took his
      eyes off of it, it appeared far, far closer, as if he had walked
      for hours.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo narrowed his eyes for a moment, thinking. Then he closed
      them entirely, took one step forward and—</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Stubbed his toe.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He cursed and opened his eyes.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And then he gasped. If he wasn't... living-impaired, he might
      have forgotten to breathe. As it was, breathing was largely
      cosmetic, in any case.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">What he'd stubbed his toe on was a staircase. The staircase was
      the most impressive he had ever seen, all narrow, crumbly, windy,
      and decidedly lacking in common safety features such as railings.
      On another day, Milo would have admired the sheer engineering
      chutzpah it displayed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But as it was, the staircase got barely a glance.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The staircase led up a tall, sheer hill. At the top was the sort
      of castle that was best viewed in the night, lit up by lightning.
      It was a sprawling mass of towers, outbuildings, and halls that
      seemed to have been constructed with no particular plan in mind,
      but, when taken all together, and squinted at from <em class="calibre7">just</em>
      the right angle, <em class="calibre7">still</em> seemed completely haphazard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was decidedly <em class="calibre7">not</em> a Portal Town.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It was, however, very, <em class="calibre7">very</em> familiar.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">That said, there wasn't anywhere else to go. Milo resolutely
      began climbing the staircase to a castle that could have been
      Hogwarts' twin brother.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">If that twin had the architectural equivalent of a waxed goatee,
      an eyepatch, and a wicked scar, that is.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Maybe an hour later, Milo reached the point that he judged was
      the halfway marker. The staircase had narrowed to be barely a foot
      across, and any shorter, he would start having to make Balance
      checks to avoid falling to his... what? Doom? He wasn't entirely
      certain he <em class="calibre7">could</em> take damage.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo frowned. He was pretty sure that a staircase like
      this—especially <em class="calibre7">this</em> staircase, if it lead to what he
      suspected—shouldn't normally be left unguarded.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo carried on, more cautiously now.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The outer gates were wide open. Milo recognized the dull grey
      metal as adamantine, one of the strongest materials in the
      multiverse. Carved onto each of the massive double doors was a tiny
      pentagon, barely bigger than Milo's palm, each with an identical,
      highly stylized eye inscribed in it. The eyes seemed to watch him
      suspiciously as he passed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo swallowed.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At least now he had a pretty good idea of why he hadn't wound up
      on one of the various heavens. A suspicion of who was responsible,
      at least.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The gates lead into a colossal 'courtyard' that could have
      swallowed most cities that Milo had seen without needing so much as
      a glass of water. Maybe not the cities from Harry's world. There
      was a winding path that led to the castle proper, and to the side,
      Milo could see a large lake that, like everything else here, looked
      suspiciously familiar. He wondered if this lake had a giant squid,
      too.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo approached the castle itself. Unlike the outer gates, these
      appeared to be of ordinary wood—but Milo doubted that the physical
      form of the gates was all that defended this castle. These were
      closed, but a light tap swung the perfectly-balanced gate open. The
      gate made no noise whatsoever as it moved on its hinges, revealing
      the castle inside.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The floor tiles inside the castle were all perfectly regular
      pentagons that—somehow—tessellated flawlessly. Staring at the join
      between tiles was quickly headache-inducing.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind him, the doors closed silently.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">There was no clear source of light, but the broad, tall hallway
      was lit at a continuous, sleepy, just-before-sunset level of light
      regardless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Just to test a hypothesis, Milo turned around and pulled on one
      of the door's handles. It wouldn't budge.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Figures," he muttered.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Shhhh!" a voice hissed. Milo nearly jumped out of his skin,
      whirling around, hands free of his sleeves for spellslinging.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Behind him, floating about two inches above the ground, was... a
      librarian. Well, an ex-librarian, Milo supposed, but he was really
      nobody to judge, now being an ex-Wizard. Judging by the
      translucency and the monochrome blue-green look, she was also a
      ghost, which brought up a whole slew of afterlife-related
      questions, primarily, how the <em class="calibre7">heck</em> could there be a ghost
      in the afterlife? What did it mean to be undead when the people
      around you were, well, dead? Between Milo and the ghost, who was
      more dead?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, also, in addition to the bifocals, the tidy hair bun, and
      the immaculate robes, her fingers ended in inch-long claws.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo swallowed, and decided that maybe he should follow the
      scary librarian lady's request to be quiet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">She beckoned him with her hands, and started floating backwards
      down the hallway, never taking her eyes off of him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6"><em class="calibre7">On the one hand, she's terrifying, and this place is weird.
      On the other hand, I'm already dead, so... ehhh. What could</em>
      possibly <em class="calibre7">happen?</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo decided to follow her. She led him through a series of
      twisty, windy hallways. Every here and there were doors leading
      into rooms, both large and small, piled high with bookshelves. Some
      of them contained people, and sentient beings that resembled
      people, and sentient beings that did <em class="calibre7">not</em> resemble people,
      who were diligently researching various topics. Some of the rooms
      had bronze plaques with labels written in Draconic, such as
      "Biography, Gnome, 569th-972nd Centuries After Glittergold, Prime
      Material #45967.2/Walnut" or "Psychometabolism, Commentary, Levels
      1 through 4."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Some rooms had no books, but simply a neat, marble pedestal in
      the centre with an object of one variety or another. Many held
      weapons or pieces of armour, but it wasn't until Milo spotted one—a
      large bowl fashioned from a blue-green semiprecious stone—that Milo
      realized what they were. Each of those rooms contained a single
      magic item, ranging from the minor (one contained what Milo
      recognized as a single Quaal's Feather Token) to the epic (a ring
      of Univesal Energy Immunity, worth more than the combined value of
      Azel's capital city, Myra (City of light! City of
      <em class="calibre7">magic</em>!)). Milo itched to ditch the spectral librarian and
      make a grab for a Headband of +12 Intelligence, but decided against
      it when he realized the decorative suits of armour lining the halls
      were silently turning their helmets to watch him.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Well, thank goodness that wasn't too creepy or anything.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Instead, Milo followed the spectral librarian, trying to make as
      little noise as possible. Fortunately, that wasn't hard—despite
      being a cavernous hallway of solid stone, his boots made little to
      no noise against the tiled floor. <em class="calibre7">Likely another
      enchantment</em>, he thought.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Eventually, the spectre led him to an obsidian statue in an
      alcove. It had wicked, serrated horns, fangs longer than some of
      Milo's fingers, from which ran what looked suspiciously like real
      blood. The spectre gave the gargoyle statue a long look, and the
      statue raised into the ceiling, revealing a spiral staircase. The
      entire process, like everything else, was completely silent.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">At the top of the staircase was a heavy wooden door. Milo
      reached up to knock, but it swung open just before his knuckles
      touched the wood.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Hello?" Milo asked nervously.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Come in," said a voice. It was an old voice, but old in the way
      that a great oak tree is old. The years added strength and wisdom
      like rings on a trunk.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo was already through the door before the speaker had
      finished. It wasn't that he was eager to enter; far from it. He was
      terrified. It was simply that he hadn't even considered doing
      anything but what the voice requested.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The office was simple, but, of course, it would be. The owner
      had no need of any physical objects, and, at this point, further
      decoration would serve no useful purpose.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">It occurred to Milo that, perhaps, the office <em class="calibre7">wasn't</em>
      free of decoration. In fact, it could have been full of dancing
      chimpanzees and fountains of diamonds, but it would make no
      difference. He found that he couldn't look at anything in the room
      except his own feet.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Sit down," said the voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo found himself sitting on a hard, flat chair. He licked his
      suddenly-dry lips, wondering what to say.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You're likely wondering why you're here," the voice said.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Maybe," Milo said in a small voice. "Well. No, actually. I'm
      not. I'm here because you brought me here." <em class="calibre7">Though the why
      of</em> that <em class="calibre7">is a whole 'nother question...</em></p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Good." The voice said, Milo thought he could hear the hint of a
      smile in the word. "Most, when first in my presence, are too
      occupied falling prostrate and begging forgiveness for sins and
      similar nonsense to actually speak the truth. But then, you are not
      most people, now are you?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"If I may ask—"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You may," the voice said, cutting Milo off. "Of course, I may
      not answer."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean, I'm not most people?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">The voice fell silent for a moment. Not, Milo was sure, because
      it was thinking—the speaker was intelligent beyond words; he didn't
      need time to think. Milo would bet that the pause was for his
      benefit, to convey the idea that the words that followed were well
      thought out. "Tell me. What do you know of the nature of the Player
      Character and the Non-Player Character?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo swallowed. "Well. Player Characters, more commonly called
      PCs, are... a different sort of person from NPCs. They are always
      sentient, most commonly humanoids. They appear sporadically
      throughout history in small groups, and their lives always change
      the world. Generally, they go on adventures, working their way up
      from defeating bandits to warlords to mythical monsters. NPCs...
      don't."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That is only part of the story," the voice said. "The rest is
      only known to me and my kind. Tell me, young Wizard, did you know
      that, until quite recently, there were <em class="calibre7">always</em> four
      PCs?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo shook his head.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"They appear always in groups of four," the voice continued.
      "When one falls, he or she either ends up here and is resurrected
      in short order, or disappears from the multiverse altogether and
      replaced by another of equivalent power."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"What do you mean by 'disappears from the multiverse?'" Milo
      asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Poof. Gone, without trace. Bypassing the afterlife entirely.
      But there's more. The four PCs always—<em class="calibre7">always</em>—each follow
      one of four similar patterns of behaviour. We watch them quite
      closely. While sometimes it seems, early on, as if a set of Player
      Characters might deviate from the norm, shortly, cracks in their
      personas start to show. Either the deviant characters are quickly
      slain and replaced, or their behaviour patterns change to fit the
      mold of one of the archetypes. Among my kind, these archetypes are
      called the Valiant, the Mimic, the Trickster, and the
      Munchkin."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo tried to mentally take notes. It wasn't every day that he
      was given a dump of exposition this straight.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The Valiant lives for action. They see battle, stubbornness,
      and blind courage in the face of certain defeat as the solution to
      any problem. The Mimic, on the other hand, is less predictable.
      They fall into the role of a being with the full spectrum of
      emotions and drives, and stay that way until they die. Adventures
      and heroic deeds are less important than simply living life in
      whichever way they so choose. The Trickster is the least
      predictable of all. They live," the voice became laced with
      disapproval, "for their own amusement. They are the sort who will
      <em class="calibre7">Fireball</em> a dragon just to see what happens." <em class="calibre7">Sounds
      like Gerard, Zook, and Wellby</em>, Milo thought to himself.
      <em class="calibre7">Which makes me...</em> "The Munchkin," the voice continued, "I
      believe needs no explanation."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"So you're saying I'm compelled by some whacked-out meta-cosmic
      spirit thingy to number crunch?" Milo asked. "Screw that. I do what
      I want."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Which brings us to the crux of the issue," the voice said.
      "Milo Amastacia-Liadon. Look at me."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo looked up. Sitting at the desk across from him was a bony,
      weathered old man. He looked more than a few centuries past his
      prime, but his hard, angular face was set with an amount of
      determination and inner strength that Milo had only seen once
      before. He wore a purple robe decorated with golden arcane runes,
      and a wide-brimmed, floppy purple hat covered in stars sat on his
      head. A long, wispy white beard fell down below the desk, and a
      simple wooden staff leaned against the wall within easy reach of
      his seat. His eyes were a piercing blue, full of age and wisdom—and
      ice. His stare was so hard and cold, Milo felt like shivering.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He looked, in short, like the platonic ideal of a wizard.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Which was because that was exactly what he was.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">He also could have been Dumbledore's twin. <em class="calibre7">Well, his
      triplet, at least</em>, Milo thought, remembering Aberforth.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boccob, God of Magic, looked Milo dead in the eyes. "You are
      different, young Wizard. Unique. You are something that has never
      happened before."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what's that?" Milo didn't like the way that Boccob was
      staring at him, as if he was peering through a microscope at what
      was a particularly interesting beetle—but a beetle,
      nonetheless.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"You are no longer one of the four Player Characters. You were
      one of those who disappeared. You were replaced. The Munchkin has
      moved on. He is now, I believe, a Bard of rather
      <em class="calibre7">surprising</em> talents."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I..." Milo felt fear grip him. He'd been prepared for a grisly
      death, for starvation, exposure to the elements, for injury and
      danger. Those were things that went with the job. But <em class="calibre7">this</em>
      was a fate far, far worse than death. He could barely even speak
      his fears aloud. "I'm an NPC?" he said in a very small, very quiet
      voice.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"No," Boccob said. "You are the character with no player. We do
      not have a word for what you are. And believe you me," Boccob's
      eyes flashed, "if one existed, I would know about it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why are you telling me this?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"As the mysterious old Wizard among mysterious old Wizards,"
      Boccob said, "exposition is one of my chief responsibilities." The
      god smiled slightly. "Also, because I have a deal to offer
      you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Fire away," Milo said, curious.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Your particular little Prime Material Plane is having some...
      issues. One who was never meant for that reality has barged in and
      caused no end of problems for the local inhabitants."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Of course," Milo said. "I did."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I am not referring to the world of Hogwarts and wanded magic,"
      Boccob said, "but instead to your own plane. Your home."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo blinked. "What?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"The ritual that brought you into the other reality also brought
      one known as Bellatrix Lestrange into yours. She wields powers
      unfamiliar to those of your world," Boccob's eyes flashed again,
      "and she cheats. She does not follow the pattern."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"But—but she's dead," Milo said. "I remember reading about it in
      the <em class="calibre7">Prophet</em>. She died in Azkaban. People cheered."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"She was replaced by another, who died in her place," Boccob
      said. "It's been done before, and it will be done again."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo narrowed his eyes. "Hold up. How do <em class="calibre7">you</em> know about
      this? Isn't it a little out of your, ah, jurisdiction?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Never forget, young Wizard." Boccob's voice was as still as
      stopped time, as hot as a storm of meteors. "I am the God of Magic.
      <em class="calibre7">All</em> magic."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Right." Milo swallowed involuntarily. "Sorry. So. What's this
      deal you wanted to make?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I will send you back into the land of the living," Boccob said,
      "in return for one task."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Oh, goody. A quest.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"And what task is that?" Milo asked.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Bellatrix Lestrange," Boccob said. "Find her. You have three
      days."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"That's it?" Milo asked. "Just... <em class="calibre7">find</em> her? I could do
      that with a Divination or three."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Then you have no reason not to accept my offer, do you, young
      Wizard?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo hesitated. "What do you want me to do once I find her?"</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Boccob the Uncaring shrugged. "I'll leave that up to you."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Why do you need me?" Milo asked. "I'm just a mid-level Wizard.
      You're... well, you're <em class="calibre7">you</em>."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"Ah," Boccob said. "But I am also an NPC, constrained to act
      within certain bounds. And besides," he smiled slightly, but it did
      not touch his eyes. "As the old saying goes: it takes a cheat to
      catch a cheat."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Milo considered the offer. Something seriously cagey was going
      on. Why the three day time limit? And why did Boccob want Milo to
      <em class="calibre7">find</em> Bellatrix? It wasn't as if Boccob didn't already know
      where she was. He was a <em class="calibre7">god</em>, after all. Somebody was being
      played here, and Milo was pretty sure it wasn't the all-seeing god
      sitting across the table from him. This was a setup, in more ways
      than one.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">But on the other hand, it was an honest-to-goodness
      <em class="calibre7">quest</em>. You don't get to be a successful adventurer by
      <em class="calibre7">not</em> doing quests for mysterious old Wizards.</p>
      <p class="calibre6">And besides. He was already dead. What was the worst that could
      happen?</p>
      <p class="calibre6">"I'll do it."</p>
      <p class="calibre6">o—o—o—o—o—o—o</p>
      <p class="calibre6">Here we have it! The long awaited Book Three of Harry Potter and
      the Natural 20! To those of you who were concerned about my killing
      off of the protagonist this early in, fear not! For the Pearly
      Gates of Adventurer Heaven are more like revolving doors,
      really.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
